ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e37	From the Workers' Group, an application has been made for the leave of the representative of Stein Erik Lauvås from 8 February to 13 February to attend the World Urban Forum Conference in Abu Dhabi. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Siv Henriette Jacobsen, is hereby invited to meet from 11 February to 13 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e57	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e62	Red promotes proposals for the ratification of additions to the Rome Statutes on the criminalisation of international law-enforcement assault wars in Norwegian criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e67	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e72	I will make a proposal, on behalf of Siv Mossleth, and myself, to strengthen the ideal feature of the specialist services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e77	The representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e82	On behalf of Marit Arnstad, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Heidi Greni, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to make a representative proposal that the self-managing universities and colleges should continue to own buildings and properties. On behalf of the representatives of Kjersti Toppe, Marit Arnstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to convert national samples in primary school into sample samples.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e89	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e105	New members of the Electoral Committee shall be elected after Tina Bru and Abid Q. Raja, who have become members of the Government. The President requests proposals for new members of the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e112	I suggest Guro Angell Gimse.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e117	Guro Angell Gimse has been proposed as a new member of the Electoral Committee after Tina Bru, who has joined the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e122	I suggest Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e127	Ola Elvestuen has been proposed as a new member of the election committee after Abid Q. Raja, who has joined the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e132	I suggest Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e137	Siv Jensen has been proposed as a new member of the electoral committee, instead of Hans Andreas Limi. Other proposals are not available, and Guro Angell Gimse, Ola Elvestuen and Siv Jensen are considered unanimously elected as new members of the electoral committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e155	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e164	First of all, I would like to thank the Greens for bringing forward this proposal, because the municipalities have an unusually important role to play in the transformation of a low-carbon society, and it may not be well enough mentioned in other contexts. It also appears that the Environment Directorate estimates that municipalities can contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian territory by up to 25–50 pst. The proposer will give details of his specific proposals. I will now concentrate on the views of the Workers' Party. The municipalities are different. The Workers' Party is therefore committed to giving municipalities freedom and good framework conditions to prioritize the environmental measures they themselves believe have the best effect in their municipality. As a former municipal politician, I know how it feels when Stortinget appears to know best, or when you try to move down the municipalities of the Oslo model or the Bergens model. Oslo has little industry, but many municipalities have both industrial challenges, widespread settlements and settlements spread across several islands, which requires both ferries and high-speed discharge boats, as well as many other challenges that vary. All municipalities are required to draw up plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and most are well under way. I have to say that the answer we got from the department shows how good it is going on in terms of good tools for municipalities, such as climate budgets, the ability to focus on the environment in public acquisitions, climate rate, Enova and various measurement tools that help to provide a good basis for decision-making on good environmental choices and support for desired conversion. It is important that the central authorities are responsive to the needs of the municipalities and act faster than we experienced in our time when we fought for permission to introduce local low-emission zones. The Labour Party believes that municipalities are responsible for developing the right measures for zero emissions and that they address the obstacles they face in the process. We do not believe in a joint action plan designed in cooperation between the State and the municipality. The result is often a list of measures to which the municipalities have no ownership. We therefore do not support the new proposal by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance. Many proposals are so detailed that it is challenging to support them without being investigated. The working party therefore only supports the proposal to impose environmental requirements on all ships calling at Norwegian ports and the principle of CO 2 for business transport. We expect municipalities to be listened to by improving measures, by adapting legislation in the future and by allocating resources in the future. I am promoting the proposal of which the Labour Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e184	The representative Ruth Grung then addressed the proposal of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e189	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on this matter, and then I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the new Council of State, Sveinung Rotevatn, on an important task. This is a proposal with many good intentions. It does not necessarily mean that the solutions chosen from the Greens/Greens/EFA are equally successful. For example, it's not very long since this Greatness unanimously decided that our World Heritage fjords should be fossil-free by 2026 – we did that in connection with the climate communication. It shows that we have a big deal that works well with these matters and makes strict demands on different industries. In this proposal, the Green Party is actually proposing to abolish the cruise industry in Norway – a year and a half later, after we made a demand for fossil-free world heritage fjords. We also see a desire to override the municipalities. The Environmental Party of the Greens – despite the fact that they are in charge of municipalities themselves, among other things. The capital of the country – has no faith that local politicians are able to make good decisions locally in the municipalities. Therefore, they believe that the Storting should override them even more – despite the fact that in most municipalities climate policy is working very well, regardless of the parties that govern the municipalities, in terms of both climate budgeting and concrete measures to reduce emissions. There is a lot going on in Norwegian and European climate policies, and that is good. The bourgeois parties took the initiative to conclude the agreement with the EU, where we have a common European goal and work together with countries in Europe to cut both our own and Europe's emissions. In view of this, a systematic climate policy for all sectors is now to be presented. There is something new in Norwegian climate policy, and it comes at the initiative of the civil government. We got the knowledge base last Friday: Climate Change 2030. Therefore, I would like to comment on a loose proposal submitted by the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Do you want to have thorough processes where you actually promote the best policy, or is it most important to make proposals in this room that will allow you to get a media lookup? Something serious has to be expected in the climate debate. It's also just when we get the best measures in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e200	Life lives in the municipalities. The municipalities are therefore essential for Norway to achieve the climate goals – the last set in the 2030 Climate Action Plan. There is no doubt about this. As Mr Grung mentioned earlier, estimates from the Environment Directorate show that municipalities can contribute to large reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and can contribute to large reductions in domestic emissions. Public acquisitions have a climate footprint of about 12 million tonnes of CO 2 per year. The municipalities account for approx. 40 pst. of these public procurements. So here is a clear potential in terms of purchases of goods and services, initial investment in construction, transport, etc. Therefore, discussing climate policy in municipalities is essential, and the intention of the proposal is good. But that debate should take place first and foremost outside this Chamber. This debate must take place in the individual community, not least in the individual local government halls — not through the over-management and introduction of a number of appropriate measures, but not for most. In 1837, Norway was given the Presidency Act, which established the municipalities and in many ways completed the Constitution and the Central Authority. Local government was largely given local autonomy because Norway, with its geography and different assumptions, needs slightly different solutions. Some people need old homes, others need schools. Some need roads, others need ferries. It's simply not that what fits in Oslo, fits anywhere else, as the proposal adds up to. In fact, Oslo, as the proposer draws on as an example of climate policy, may be quite unique in Norwegian context, because it is – and then Bergen and Trondheim will excuse me – nearly our only major city of significant size. The car-free center may not be the solution of Rørvik, walk every five minutes fits in the Stortingsgat, but elsewhere there is hardly enough ground for school bus before and after school. If we're to succeed in climate change, we have to start from below. Good dialogue and good cooperation between the municipality and the state are necessary. Therefore, instruments and measures for local climate action that provide real emission reductions in municipalities need to be adopted and implemented in municipalities, in order to identify the best measures and instruments. The task of the state is to be a hero, a motivator, to play the municipalities well. There is already a good work to be done, and we can contribute more by strengthening the climate change regime. We will then be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and create changes in municipalities. Finally, I would like to stress that many municipalities are already working well on the issue. With that, I take up proposal No. 2, which the Center Party is in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e216	The representative of Ole André Myhrvold has addressed the proposal referred to by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e221	Climate change 2030 shows that it is fully possible to make large emissions cuts in Norway, but also that work is urgent. In Klimakur it is pointed out that municipalities play an important role. Municipalities and county councils can influence a wide range of climate action through their different roles. This applies in particular to reductions in emissions in road and maritime transport, plant machinery, waste management and carbon capture and storage. Municipalities can also contribute to waste reduction, food waste reduction and heating. Climate change in 2030 looked at the opportunities to strengthen the areas of action of municipalities such as purchasing, planning authorities and, not least, municipal climate change through their role as a community developer. Through the 2030 Climate Action Plan, five key areas are identified which can help to strengthen the framework conditions for local climate work and the role of municipalities as a climate actor, and which I believe support the proposals promoted in this case, which are supported by SV. The five key areas to which the 2030 Climate Change Summit pointed were: Give municipalities a clear role in climate policy. Give them expectations and tools. Increased and easily available financial support to municipalities for conversion and investment. Here I would like to refer to the SV's alternative state budget, where we have proposed increasing the allocations to the climate rate, which have proved to be a very good instrument. To clarify and extend the legal space of action, especially within the framework of the Law on Planning and Building. Here we hope that the government will come back in the notified climate communication with proposals to this effect. Public acquisitions and compliance and implementation of climate considerations would be pursued here. It should be considered to introduce requirements for the reporting and systematic integration of climate considerations into municipal decision-making processes. Here, climate budgeting is one of the instruments. If we're going to put this in place, we're going to need a bigger room for action for the municipalities. They must be given the opportunity, competence and financial resources to develop these measures. With that, I take up the suggestions that SV is behind. At the same time, I would like to draw proposal No. 15, because it is a proposal that is similar to one that we have previously promoted together with the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e252	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e257	We politicians have a special responsibility to the young people and generations that come after us. Last week the government presented its Climate Action Report, and it fills me with joy and expectation to see that the government's own report comes with recommendations close to the Green Party's policy. So we have solutions that are clear. What remains is to be done. The Environment Directorate estimates that municipalities can cut 25–50 pst. of Norwegian emissions. Municipalities can cut emissions directly, and they can use the purchasing power to stimulate climate-friendly solutions and influence the consumption of citizens. In municipalities and counties where the Greens have power, they have ambitious climate targets and their own climate budgets. The bay, with both ferry and district, with communities from Hardangervidda to Halden, has a target of 80 p.m. climate-cut by 2030. The goal in Oslo, which you've talked about, is to cut emissions by 95 pst. This is what policy Norway and the generations of the future need. But it does not help if municipalities and county councils have ambitious targets when the government does not suggest that they can be achieved. Unfortunately, Norwegian climate policy is ruined by the fact that government councils are more concerned with other things than cutting emissions. When the Climate Action Report was presented last week, the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment was most concerned that climate action should not go beyond growth. The Minister of Agriculture is skeptical about reducing meat consumption, even though Climate Action determines that it is the most effective climate action in the non-quota sector. The oil minister categorically rejects all proposals for cuts in oil production. The government's climate policy is like a slim cure with a ban on changing the diet or training more. It doesn't work in practice. To cut emissions quickly and efficiently, municipalities need better tools. We can give them that today if this House votes in favour of the Greens' proposals. All of us who are concerned with economic sustainability would see it as absurd if the municipalities didn't have to run the economy after a budget. The Greens are also concerned about the sustainable climate. We propose, among other things: that all municipalities have a climate budget, and to provide national support for climate budgeting. We will subsidize municipalities and county councils that choose climate-smart solutions, even though they are more expensive. We will allow municipalities to introduce low-emission zones to cut emissions from road traffic. We will greatly expand and strengthen the climate change regime. We are promoting a proposal, together with the SV, on climate change reward, and also a loose proposal today, asking the government to promote the announced notification of climate change follow-up 2030 before Easter, so that the Storting will be able to deal with the matter in time for the government to introduce the necessary climate measures in the context of the state budget for 2021. With this I address the suggestions I refer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e287	The representative Kristoffer Robin Haug has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e293	Let me start by saying that it is fun to be back in the Storting – in a slightly different role, but I look forward to a lot of good debates, both with the committee and with the Stortinget otherwise. As a matter of fact, I agree with Une Bastholm and the Environmental Party of Greens that municipalities play a central role in climate work, as they have already given them a range of tasks and tools that allow them to influence sources of greenhouse gas emissions. The municipality is a political actor; it is a service provider, authority operator, purchaser, owner of property and responsible for social development, planning and organisation for good living standards for the population. The government has set ambitious targets for emission reductions at national level. Last Friday, I received a 2030 Climate Change Course, which several people have been in. The Directorate-General for the Environment and a number of other agencies have worked out what measures and tools can deliver at least 50 pst. reduction in non-quota emissions by 2030. That is what we're going to use to create a big message with a plan for how we're going to do that. I notice that one is impatient here, and that the Greens have a proposal that we should present that message before Easter. It is good to be impatient, but I would remind the Storting that this plan, or rather the cure, is now out on the ears. The deadline for the hearing is 30 April. That means that if the Storting vote in favour of the Greens' proposal, we must stop the hearing immediately. This means that no one in the business community, no municipalities, no individuals, no one in the environmental movement will be able to comment on the 2030 Climate Action Plan. I'm not sure if the Greens really think it's a good idea. But it is good that people will discuss the climate cure. It says something about how important that work actually is. It is important that the municipalities’ climate work is locally anchored and adapted. Municipal self-government and framework management are the main principles of the government’s governance of the local government sector. Ensures that decisions are taken locally, according to local circumstances. The main focus of the government towards municipalities is, therefore, to provide them with a good toolbox, to guide them and to help them find good solutions locally. In this way, the Directorate-General for the Environment, on behalf of us, has already done a significant job of guiding and following up the work of the municipalities on climate change. Etas are already a high priority. Municipalities already have a good opportunity to take and focus on climate change issues, and we make continuous assessments of the need to strengthen the toolbox. Finally, I would like to take note of the climate change regime. It was introduced as a five-year arrangement in the 2016 budget agreement, on the initiative of the Left, with 100 million. kr. Because of that, we've increased the number of rights, and we've given you about 628 million. SEK to 951 project throughout the country. It is good that more people want to strengthen the system that it is successful, and of course the government will also consider it in the current budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e315	I want to join in and congratulate the Council of State, Rotevatn, on new and important tasks. I would like to welcome debates in this Chamber. There is a great deal of interest in this committee to facilitate green solutions. The climate policy of the left has probably been reasonably parked in the cooperation of the government, but now, with the Progress Party outside the government, we might expect the Left to join in on more constructive solutions in the future. I think the Green Party's representative proposal is very good, with many good intentions, but does the government have a tool for creating climate budgets around the municipalities, so that it is actually possible for those who want it? It is very time-consuming and difficult to create. We have experience with that. How will the Left help the municipalities to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e324	I notice that the representative almost started by thanking the government for the Council of State. So happy in the government I don't think the representative is, but I appreciate the congratulations. It's nice, and it's fun to be back again. It is definitely not that the Left's climate policy has been parked in the government, either with the Progress Party inside or outside. On the contrary, we have increased CO 2 charges every year, and greenhouse gas emissions are now falling for the third consecutive year and are at their lowest level since 1995. We strengthen the effort for floating sea winds and elves – I could have continued, but I will answer the question: The climate budget is a good tool that several municipalities have taken advantage of. It gives them the support to do through the Directorate-General for the Environment's guidance. They have access to competence. I thought it was good for municipalities to use this type of tool. They're going to have to keep doing that, and we're going to back it up as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e336	I would also like to put myself in the line of congratulations to the new Minister, who has an incredibly important place of trust. I understand that the notified climate message will perhaps come up by Christmas, hopefully. I want to challenge the Council of State to say something about the use of time, how long he sees fit to spend before a climate announcement comes to Stortinget. One more question: will the Council look at the possibility of introducing some of the measures described in the 2030 Climate Action Plan before the climate change notification comes, for example: the proposed ban on the use of fossil energy for heating in industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e345	The process around the government's climate plan is as follows: We now have a climate cure on our ears, and as I mentioned in my post, the deadline is 30 April. That's when I think civil society, business and organisational needs, because this is a comprehensive document, it's complicated and fives of many social sectors. Of course, we're going to take over the recordings. What we have said is that we will deliver a climate plan to Stortinget during the year, but of course we will work to deliver it as quickly as possible. I can't be more precise than that at this point in time. These are heavy processes, but I'll do my best to guide them through government as quickly as we can. But the most important thing is the quality of the plan. When it comes to the second question, whether we will consider introducing some measures already now, is to the extent that the answer to that yes. Of course, we will review climate action on a rolling basis against the budget of the cottage and in other processes. Some of the measures are already in place, for example: the prohibition of new cultivation of ants, which received substantial support in the Storting, with the exception of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Of course, we will also consider other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e354	I thank you for the answers and I think there are promising tones that you will look at the possibility of introducing some of the measures before the climate communication comes. I record that there has been a small discussion between the Right and the Minister for Climate and Environment whether or not to invite it to a new climate settlement in Stortinget. I want to ask the Council of State if the government in the coming climate communication will invite the Storting to a broad and long-term climate settlement that will guarantee us great emission cuts by 2030, and that will provide the necessary long-term and secureness for that to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e361	I always want as wide a number as possible around the issues I and the government put forward in Stortinget – that also applies to the warning climate plan. That being said, the most important thing for the climate, I think, is that we get a multiple that wants to move forward and reinforce the drop in emissions that is already happening. For the emissions that are now going down, we have to go down even faster if we're going to reach the 2030 target. For my part, I am open to talk to all parties in Stortinget about climate and environmental policy. It also applies to the alert climate plan, and then I hope that we can get as wide a number as we can get, as long as the direction is as progressive and green as it can be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e368	I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the Minister in office. We have great hopes and even greater expectations for the Minister in the future. The strength of the totality of the Granavolden platform has been discussed. Will the Minister say that climate policy is firm, or will the government take the opportunity to go from gray to greener policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e375	Granavolden is still the political platform of the government, including all the good environmental measures that lie in Granavolden – whether it's about continuously escalating the CO 2 tax, delivering a climate plan to the Stortinget or strengthening our climate targets. All that is certain, and I also believe that the representative of the Greens should be happy to do so. But it is clear that we are now forced to secure multiples in the Storting for the various proposals, and we hope that the Storting will be involved. There are also some important environmental and climate issues that are not finally resolved in the Granavolden platform. Now we have, for example, an ongoing and important discussion on the definition of the Barents Ocean iceberg son, in the light of professional advice. There is a discussion going on in the government now that is not finally settled in the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e385	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e393	As chairman of the municipal committee, I think it is important to take the floor in this debate, because there is no longer any doubt that we need to cut climate emissions, and that we need to cut them much faster than we have now. The municipality sector is then large and important, and there are no questions about whether the municipalities should cut, but about whether the Stortinget and the government both set the right standards and enable the municipal sector to achieve its objectives. Climatology cannot be an electoral profession, nor can it be for the municipalities. It is not that all municipalities should necessarily do exactly the same, which the central party will later believe, but that the school bus that goes is emission-free, and that municipalities and county councils can afford to demand that public transport is emission-free. SV promoted in the budget before Christmas proposals that county municipalities should be compensated for public transport on both ferry, boat and bus, so that emission-free public transport could be used. That would mean a lot. Unfortunately, SV became the sole author of the proposal. There is no doubt that it costs a little bit more in the first round when you're going to take some climate like that. In the second round, this develops both new technologies and business opportunities for the yard industry, for those who produce buses, and for those who produce biogas, as in my county, and for putting in place infrastructures and outlets for the biogas. We have to put this in place. Climate change is necessary. It's not always that it just has one downside, but it often costs a little bit at first. The second is that we need to put in place reward schemes for more medium-sized cities and cities. We need more bike paths and charging stations. The condition for such support must be that measures are taken to bring down private cars and emissions. This is something SV would very much like to be able to facilitate. In addition, it is necessary to ensure that everything going on in installations, waste, etc. has a climate change. Then the municipalities must have the opportunity to implement this. Therefore, SV increases the local economy most of all parties, even more than the Centre Party, to enable municipalities to do this job. We are not afraid to make the necessary demands, but we also make it possible for the local authorities to employ skills that enable them to provide their local politicians with such good advice and qualified evidence that they can be involved in making the right decisions, so that the climate emissions in the municipalities fall sharply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e408	It's not so surprising that SV has more money than other parties in the budget, it's more normal than the abnormal in this room. But when it comes to climate change in the municipalities, the Center Party believes that the wit is relatively evenly distributed. Norwegian municipalities are well under way. Yes, they can do more, and as I also said in my post: we have to be a cheerleader and a motivationalist for that to happen. What scared me the most and made me take the floor, however, was the contribution to the representative Kristoffer Robin Haug. He said that there was a misunderstanding between states and municipalities and the state, and that the municipalities could not implement climate action and climate policy because the government had a different policy. But this is the rule of the people. The voters have chosen the representatives in this room, from which the government is jumping. It's not that we can set aside the rules of the People's Party, even if we have a climate challenge to solve. On the contrary, we have to make sure that everyone gets involved, both geographically and socially. Then we need broad and inclusive processes. That is why, of course, the Central Party will also be voting against the Green Party's proposal today to present a climate report before Easter, almost. That's not how we do it. Climate change 2030 deserves a broad round of consultations, broad involvement and well-worked actions, which end up with a good debate among us in this Chamber and hopefully good decisions at the end. I get a little scared when the climate debate ends in the authoritarian track, because that's almost what it is. We have to stick to the principles of the People's Rule, even if the climate challenge is existing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e419	I have to remind the representative of the Central Party that the Stortinget is also a government of the people, and the Stortinget has a responsibility to set a framework that reduces climate emissions. So it can't be an electoral profession for anyone. We also have a responsibility to make it possible. We need to make the right demands, both for purchases and for how to organise ourselves, to reduce climate change emissions, and then the Storting must make resources available to make it possible. I am absolutely sure that both the population and local democracy are fully willing to participate in this if they get resources and opportunities to do so. For example: the county councils and public transport, I feel that they have been ahead – much more ahead than the state. There is the country that is subject to requirements, and the country that is committed to contributing to the financing of zero-emission ferries, boats and public transport. There's a lot of money missing. The job has been taken by the county councils. That is why I am surprised that the Central Party did not agree to the proposal SV made, namely that this is to be paid and committed by the State, without discussing it any more. Because it is absolutely necessary, and it is also good business development. But it's more urgent than the Center Party believes – it's much more urgent than the Center Party believes. That is why, as a national parliament and the government, we need to take responsibility for getting started, and therefore SV expects that there will be clear improvements to this, including in the budget, before this big message comes, because it is absolutely necessary. In the municipal sector, it is fully possible to cut a lot of emissions by strengthening municipalities professionally, so that they have professional competence in these areas, and by taking the climate cuts that can be taken, for example through: reward schemes. That's absolutely necessary. There is also a great deal to be gained in the construction sector by making clear demands in these areas. Unfortunately, the government has reversed a proposal in technical regulations that the Stortinget agreed on and that made demands, among other things. waterborne heat in larger buildings, which can reduce the use of electricity, which can then be used for the replacement of energy sources with high emissions. We have to housekeepers, we have to do all the little things right. Municipalities have great opportunities to realise this, and then large-scale and government should provide them with a financial framework that will enable them to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e428	As an outsider I have to say it is quite interesting to follow the conflict that is now drawn up on the red-green side. This seems to be two parties that are quite irreconcilable, but for some reason it seems that it is best that they cooperate. What we see in this case is a distinction between parties that are centralizing in nature, and parties that believe that local democracy is something more than what you can bring out when you hold parties. Municipalities also have the opportunity to make demands. Not everything needs to be a dictate from Stortinget. I am not surprised that the Central Party falls on the same side as us, who are engaged in local democracy, and who have confidence in local decisions. Then, of course, from the state's side, you have to help as best you can give advice and guidance on how this can work as best you can, as you already do today, and as it was well explained by the Council of State. In addition, of course, there is systematic climate policy for all sectors. I have a question for the Greens/EFA, for the Greens/EFA, for the Greens/EFA, that there are parties in Norway that are concerned that we should continue to have economic growth, that we should conduct a responsible climate policy that cuts emissions, not development. The question is then – to the Greens and to the SV: Are you willing to pursue a policy that will make the Nordics less well paid? Are you willing to pursue a policy that will drastically reduce tax access? Are you willing to pursue a policy that slows down or stops economic growth? Are you willing to pursue a policy that makes the welfare state work worse? Are you willing to pursue a policy that doesn't give any value creation because it's going to stop, that doesn't give innovation because it's going to stop, that makes the green transition that we need to take place in the market go down? Is it really the short-term policy of the Greens and Greens who want to move forward towards 2030? In fact, I think the approach of the civil side is much more sensible: that emissions should be cut, but not progress, and that we should still have a high and good standard of living in Norway. In fact, it should also be fought when sitting in the national assembly of a country — for the well-being of the citizens of the country of which they are elected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e439	What we see in the climate struggle today is that a number of municipalities want to go ahead, want to go further in their efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions than the government does. I could have listed more municipalities that have set themselves bolder targets for emission cuts towards 2030 than the majority in this room have done. I could also have listed several municipalities that want to make demands on the cruise industry, who want to make demands on how many cruise ships, and who want to make demands on the size of the cruise ships that are going to visit their ports. But they don't have the ability to set these requirements. The Port Act prevents them from doing so, because according to it, they are obliged to accept the visits that are coming. For this reason, SV has made proposals in Stortinget on changes to the Ports Act to ensure that municipalities wishing to impose environmental requirements, for example: the cruise industry, shall be allowed to do so. Unfortunately, the majority in this room voted in favour, but the Stortinget will have the opportunity to think again when the Business Committee presents its position on cruise traffic, based on a proposal from the SV. Then Stortinget has the opportunity to take local democracy seriously and give Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger the opportunity to put the restrictions they want on the cruise traffic to enter the cities. Then the representatives have the opportunity to show that their homage to local democracy does not only belong to the festivities of Stortingen's pulpit, but actually matters. Then we are challenged by climate action and growth. I believe that large parts of Norway will benefit from stringent climate action, increase employment and growth precisely as a result of climate action. To take my own hometown, Trondheim: I think making demands on the breeding industry about zero emissions from their activities will mean increasing the production of zero-emission boats, batteries and other non-emission technologies that will create jobs and revenues. It has unfortunately this hall also voted against, but they get the opportunity to do something about it quite soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e450	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e469	The coverage of critical management practices in the Food Authority in 2019 was very alarming. Therefore, this inter-pelling debate is important. For it is about trust and security. Trust in governance is one of the most fragile things that politicians need to protect, and especially when it concerns confidence in some of what we should be very concerned about – our food. During 2019, we received in the Right, probably together with several other big business representatives, more concerns about critical management practices in the Food Authority – both directly and through the media. In the public debate, when questions were raised about the administrative practices of the Food Authority, pointing out that it was not in accordance with good administrative practice, as provided for in the Administrative Act, the Right and, fortunately, also agreed with a Joint Liaison Committee that an independent review of the oversight activities of the Food Authority in both the green and blue sectors had to be carried out. Food surveillance has an important role to play in ensuring that both we as consumers and, in particular, those who receive a visit to the Food Safety Authority have confidence that supervision is carried out in a competent manner, in line with the standards of good administration, and not least that the findings presented in the supervisory reports are correct. Last December, the consultancy company KPMG presented its review report. The report was well received, and unfortunately the findings showed many of the concerns that we, as politicians and users, had raised in advance. It is very alarming that the report confirms poor administrative practices and a strong need to clean up and improve supervision. There are in particular three areas of the report that I want to highlight in today's interpellation. These three areas I think it is absolutely essential that we, together with the government, look at how we can solve in the best possible way. Let me start with the first and perhaps the most obvious to us politicians. We received many enquiries and reports from users around the country that were reported on what they experienced as different administrative practices from region to region, from office to office — yes, even from case handler to case handler. This was the case in both the green and blue sectors. The report indicates that the organisation of the Food Safety Authority contributes to poor effective management and unclear responsibilities, and draws the findings to the extent that there are indications that there are ‘developed own supervisory cultures in the five regions’. The findings in the report show: ‘Reorganisation has contributed to more uniform supervision in each region, while there is more uncertainty as to whether supervision has become more consistent between regions. There are unclear responsibilities and unclear authority relationships between the head office and the regions. This has resulted, inter alia, in weak governance and lack of consistency in the organisation of regions.’ This is very unfortunate, and KPMG recommends in its report that this is one of the overall issues that need to be taken seriously rather quickly. I agree with the KPMG and believe that the Department, together with the Food Safety Authority, must put in place immediate measures in order to ensure that the procedures and guidelines for the entire supervision are made comprehensive and predictable for the users, irrespective of the region. Predictability and transparency for the users are the other things I want the department to take with me in the further consideration of this matter. During the treatment of fur animals last year, we received several enquiries from users who experienced supervision of a political agenda and with an assumed control and guardian position that was managed in an unpleasant and confrontational manner. Let me make one thing clear: public enterprises or underlying agencies shall be correct and professional in their appearance, and under no circumstances shall officials act on a personal political agenda. This is extremely unprofessional, and I expect the Department to follow up on any such positions at a government office. The report points out: ‘The interpretation of the rules is not uniform’. Furthermore, reference is made to: ‘The main office has major challenges in carrying out good regulatory interpretation and dissemination to the inspectors of the Food Safety Authority and to the subjects of oversight. Requirements templates, which describe the requirements to be verified on supervision, are missing in several areas. In other areas, there are several versions of requirement templates without adequate guidance on the template to be used. The lack of requirement templates from the head office results in regions and departments developing their own templates and methods that are not always shared with others. This has a significant impact on the consistency of the supervision of food.» Again, the report on serious deficiencies and sinks testifies that inspections on a level playing field on farms or farm farms may be carried out differently. In addition, the development of separate templates that are not shared with others could lead to room for their own policy agendas for supervisors. This shall not be possible, and the Right expects the Ministry to follow this up in line with the expectations and measures proposed by the report. The last thing I found I want to address is the absence of professionalism and quality in the tasks that the supervision is supposed to perform. In the event of a perceived dissatisfaction, injustice or mistreatment of the system, users will no longer have confidence in or wish to cooperate with public authorities. This is a very unfortunate development because the role of supervision as an advisory body will be confused. Professional quality must return – there can be no political agendas in the Food Authority. In its role, the Food Authority shall provide guidance on legislation, dissemination of information and knowledge as well as good preparedness. The report shows that there is a lack of training programmes, weak quality assurance and control systems and weak systems for planning, implementation and monitoring. All of these deficiencies say the report is about the lack of resources, but I think, based on other findings in the report, that this is also about the lack of management and governance, which has once again gone beyond both the professionalism and legitimacy of the Food Authority. A system of professionalism and quality will be able to press ahead with clear management and tightness and priority, because information on the proper preparation, implementation and evaluation of supervisory tasks is specified and fed. For the Right, it is also important that the Food Authority prioritises the report’s findings that there is a lack of communication with users. Through the prioritisation of proper resources and better dialogue with those to be supervised and consulted, we hope that confidence in the role of supervision can be regained both as an adviser and as an inspector. Right is a strong defender of the individual’s having a good meeting with the big system. As far as the Food Authority is concerned, this report confirms that this has not always been the case here. But we are now busy looking forward and looking at how changes should be made in the short and long term. Nevertheless, it is important for me to point out that it is the system that is problematic in administrative practices. I know a lot of people who go to work every day in the Food Agency with commitment, with professionalism and with pride in the job they do. They shall continue to do so, even after any changes are made. I just wanted to stress that our challenges and critical comments are directed at management and the system, not at the many skilled employees who go to work every day in the Food Agency. Finally, we are dependent on having a food monitoring system that can be trusted by both users and consumers. So my question to the Council of State is, how will she follow up the review report and ensure that there is a rapid improvement in the supervisory practices of the Food Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e524	I would first like to thank the interpellant for the interpellation. KPMG submitted a thorough review report on 10 December 2019. The review was primarily a system review and not a review of individual cases. The KPMG clearly points out that the Food Authority does not have sufficient systems and procedures for planning, implementing and monitoring supervision. This may have consequences for those charged with supervision. The review report reveals serious findings that challenge both the Food Authority and the specialist departments. The Food Safety Authority is a very important body for Norwegian nutritionists, the Norwegian Health Service and for all of us as consumers. We rely on a food surveillance system that can be trusted by both users and consumers. The KPMG describes eight main challenges in its review report. They have also made concrete recommendations relating to each of these main findings. The report provides a basis for the improvement work that is now under way in the Food Authority. It is essential that the measures and solutions put in place help to strengthen confidence in the Food Authority. It must be the main priority number one. It is the Food Authority that has the primary responsibility for implementing improvement measures, but I, as the administratively responsible State Council, want to have a lot of attention on this in the future. I had a meeting with the Food Authority on 12 December 2019. There I was briefed by the new director of the Food Safety Authority on how the Food Safety Authority will follow up the findings of the review with a plan for concrete action in the future. The director of the Food Safety Authority agrees that the findings of the review report are serious and that they show that the Food Safety Authority needs to improve the way they operate as supervision. She immediately got to grips with the situation and started the improvement work. The Executive Director of the Food Authority pointed out the special importance of: better dialogue with industries and better guidance – it will make it easier for users to do the right thing improved communication on supervision, as also stated by the interpellant, and improved quality of surveillance reports; better management of supervisory planning, implementation and follow-up These three areas are being raised as the main areas for short-term impact. However, in order to get speed and strength in the improvement work, the Executive Director has also set up a dedicated task force that reports directly to her. The Group shall support responsible managers in the rapid implementation of the necessary improvement actions. The intervention team is on a temporary basis and will be operational for one year. As of 21 January 2020, 26 different measures have been developed by the Food Safety Authority to follow up the findings of the review report. The Food Safety Authority proposes that users should experience notable effects of the measures taken during the year. In addition to the external review carried out by KPMG on behalf of the Ministry, the Food Authority has carried out a separate examination of the so-called Lauvås case. There is also a separate internal audit of the supervision of food and animals in Rogaland, where one also looks at the quality of the treatment. Food surveillance will consider carrying out similar audits in other regions. Food surveillance also carries out a monitoring of the supervisory process in order to ensure appropriate guidance and enhanced internal control. The practice of legislation and enforcement of supervision by the Food Safety Authority is now being monitored and controlled by others in various ways. Food surveillance will generally focus on the preparation and follow-up of, audits by the National Audit Office, the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, and its own internal audits. I can mention that the ESA will review the non-compliance status of the Food Safety Authority after previous inspections next week and in May a revision of the fish health area will be carried out. The Food Safety Authority has carried out a survey of the use of animal protection products today and will, in view of this, clarify how they will be used in the future. I am concerned that the Food Safety Authority must have measures and solutions in the short and long term. This must be a question of, among other things: common rules, understanding of supervision and the practice of legislation. The Director of the Food Authority has presented a plan of concrete and relevant measures. By 2020, the Food Authority is expected to have close dialogue with the three food departments on the follow-up to the review report, with regular status meetings. Food surveillance shall also report specifically on the follow-up to the report in tertiary and annual reports. The review was a system review to see how the Food Safety Authority plans, implements and monitors supervision. It was not a review of individual matters. As I said, food supervision also carries out an internal audit of the quality of management in the supervision of food and animals in Rogaland. These and other studies The role of the Food Safety Authority in its administrative practices may reveal the need for the Food Safety Authority to take a closer look at individual matters. The Food Safety Authority has informed me that they are continuously assessing this. The review report shows that the Food Safety Authority has several challenges with governance, organisation and management practices in supervisory activities, and most recommendations for action address the Food Safety Authority. Two of the recommendations are about the overall organisation of the Food Authority, and are therefore directed at the three departments and matters that are currently the subject of current legislation. One is about the organisation of complaint handling and should be done outside the Food Safety Authority. The other is about whether governance and internal responsibilities would be clearer if the Food Safety Authority were reorganised from two to one levels of administration. A few years have passed since the Food Safety Authority was reorganized from three to two levels of administration, and all complaints were collected at the head office. However, together with the Food Authority and the other two departments, I would like to assess how we should proceed with these two challenges. The important thing here must be to build up the trust of the Food Safety Authority and not least to have common practice and management, and this must be done now. In conclusion, I would like to say that I have confidence in the plan presented to me by the Director of the Food Safety Authority, and I would like to have regular meetings with information on status and progress. I can mention that I am going to have a new meeting with the Director of the Food Safety Authority on the follow-up to the review on 28 February, and then the departments will have a management meeting in April. I will follow the Food Authority and the review that has been, closely, both through the ordinary management dialogue and in my own meetings with the Director.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e578	I thank the Minister of Agriculture for her answer. It is reassuring to hear that the Minister is in close dialogue with the Food Authority, for it is as the Minister says: the activities of the Food Authority have had a very good reputation in the population, and it is incredibly important that we all contribute to the return of that trust and reputation if it is falling. There are many competent and dedicated employees in the Food Authority, and therefore – and with a new director as well – there are good opportunities to rebuild that trust. But as I said in my previous post: As representatives, we get – last of all we got it now Tuesday evening – disturbing evidence that things are not the way they should be. I expect that some of what we get now is probably due to the fact that you know that this debate is going to be today, and that you send documentation that things are not good. So I hope these are things that go way back in time. But in any case, we're all going to contribute to not getting such stories in the future. I also get many feedback from many business operators who are very pleased with the Food Agency, who have experienced a good cooperation with them, who believe that they have been on the offer page for them. But it just shows that there's a different picture out there, and then it's important that we together manage to contribute to that change, and that we get a similar picture of the Food Authority – a good and safe picture of the job they're going to do. It is good to hear that many improvement measures have already been implemented. It might be interesting to hear the Minister say something about the various measures that the Food Safety Authority has come up with and will take, and perhaps even more about this working group she said: What is it going to do, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e589	Thanks to the interpellant for very specific questions. One of the things on which the report is clear is that it was not a uniform interpretation of the rules. In this context, it is important to strengthen the dialogue with the industries so that actors know how to interpret the legislation and how to comply with it. Food monitoring will also work to phase out regional guidelines and replace them with national guidelines. It is precisely to get a consistent practice by not having self-practicing regions, but a common regulatory framework, so the industries – whether one is in one or the other region – feel serious. Another finding in the report is the lack of communication on supervision. It has also been made clear in individual matters that I get in my e-mail. One of the measures is that a user survey will be carried out immediately after supervision, where one can provide feedback immediately. In addition, we will carry out the ‘Completed on site’ project. The aim is for inspectors to be able to send an inspection report with a description of observations and images from the inspection at the end of the inspection, i.e. on site, there and then. Depending on the findings, decisions — whether urgent or not — shall be taken which may be printed and sent electronically. There are some of the measures. A third finding concerns weak overall planning, based on observed risk. One of the measures to be implemented is to provide an updated instruction also for the animal protection subjects that are part of the supervision, which also improves that aspect of it. Then I got another question, and it was about the response group that will last for approx. one year. There shall be a group to work for the rapid implementation of the improvement measures. The group shall consist of three regional employees and one from the head office. The Task Force shall report directly to the Executive Director and shall also present the status and proposals of the Strategic Executive Forum of the Food Authority, composed of the Head Office and the Regional Directors, in order to ensure consistent practice. They have meetings every 14 days, and that makes them able to get the information out right away. I believe that this will help to ensure short-term progress and results by 2020/2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e604	The Food Authority has been and are in a crisis of confidence. It is a crisis that cannot last, trust must be restored. That was the background for the Senterpartiet to propose an external review of the Food Authority. It was important that the Stortinge supported the proposal. The investigation has now been carried out and has made clear findings and recommendations. Now the recommendations have to be followed up. The Central Party expects the Council of State to give an adequate and timely overall assessment of the size of the investigation and of the follow-up by the Council of State. This applies to both external and internal investigations. In addition, we have a national audit report. People and users of the Food Authority have to notice a difference. The trust in the Food Authority must be built up. Food supervision has many competent employees, and proper food supervision is a prerequisite for good animal welfare in agriculture. I would also like to stress the importance of trust between the Food Authority on the one hand and the food industry and seafood on the other. There will be a difficult matter if the findings in the investigation should open up to look at matters again. It is clear that if the Food Safety Authority discovers that errors have been made, the possibility to reverse decisions must be used. The Central Party will ask the Council to give its opinion on it. The centre lot is occupied by livestock farming and good animal welfare. That's why we appreciate this interpellation, but it's not going to replace a full reporting to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e613	This is a fine – and important – interpellant. It is also an important report that has come to the table, with important conclusions. It is vital that we have confidence in the Food Authority, which is absolutely vital. I can also say as an agricultural friend that we should have confidence in the Food Authority. It is often the case that the Food Safety Authority is criticized from two sides, partly from those who are very concerned with animal welfare, so that the Food Safety Authority does not entirely do the job they are going to do, and then they are criticised the opposite way, from the other side, because they are simply unviable or make mistakes in their job. It's a little nearer to take a parallel, which not so many might have to mention, but which I've been thinking, and perhaps many have thought: this has certain parallels to child protection in Norway, actually, where you have weak groups. Here, animals and children are quite parallel – there are weak groups. Then we have the owners, the farmers, who own the animals, and we have the parents in the case of children. The point is that both institutions are kind of criticized from both sides -- it's an interesting parallel. They both have to trust us to have a society that we can trust. They also have tools that can hit individuals hard – we need to be aware of that. I'm not going to go into the details of this report; I just notice that the Council of State replied that they should have some kind of user survey – we could call it an evaluation – after a supervision, and that's good. Then I also hope that the evaluation will take all aspects of it, if the job is well done in the current situation. I would also like to refer to a representative proposal that is now on the business committee, and it is a representative proposal that Mr SV has put forward, which deals with a number of individual proposals. This concerns criticism of the Food Safety Authority from the other side, i.e. they have not followed up and done their job in the animal welfare matter. I just hope that those who are now active in this debate – and many more – can participate in that debate when the vote comes from the committee, which is probably next week. I also hope for a fruitful debate on that side of the Food Authority, namely whether they follow up on the important animal welfare issues in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e624	Safe food, good animal welfare and healthy animals are also essential for people’s safety and health. That's why it's very good that this interpellation is taken up. I would like to thank you for that on behalf of the Workers' Party. It is true, as has been said, that there are many competent, dedicated employees – and that is what we see has improvement potential in the way food supervision works. In addition to the current issue we are now discussing, on how the supervisory function works, the Food Safety Authority has many important tasks, and they have had many problems they have had to deal with on an ongoing basis in recent years. We've had pancreatic disease at the reindeer, and we had a dog disease this summer, which also required resources from the Food Authority. In addition, we want the Food Safety Authority to have additional resources to back up and support during safe production in the farming industry. It is clear that there will be work that will also require quite a lot of resources to evaluate how the work works in the supervision itself. As a result, I could imagine that the Minister of Agriculture could say a little about how she assesses the resource situation in the Food Safety Authority against all the issues and important tasks we want the Food Safety Authority to deliver well in the time that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e633	Thank you to everyone who has taken part in the debate. It is an important debate. We who sit here in the hall know that there are people sitting in their offices following the debate, and this topic is also important in the media. I'm not afraid there's not so many in this room, because there's a lot of people involved in this. We are all dependent on the proper functioning of the Food Safety Authority. That's what I want to contribute to by addressing this interpellation now – show that we take seriously both the feedback we received before the investigation was started, and not least those we get now when the review report is presented, which shows that not everything is as it should be. There's now a good job going on. It was very good to hear the Minister tell about all the different measures that have been taken. When the response team is going to have a working time of just one year, I expect a good deal of change in a very short time. I have a great deal of understanding for the employees of the Food Authority. Getting the search light set up in a way that this can be a heavy load. Anyway, they're set to do an important job for our society, and we as big people have to be sure that the job that's done out there is done according to good expectations and demands and solved for the best of all, so we're sure we have safe and good food. These are good employees, and I trust a hundred percent that they're going to do a very good job in the continuation. We're going to cheer on them, we're going to cheer on the minister, and we're going to cheer on the director of the Food Authority to make this work work. Thank you all for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e646	I want to thank you for some of the questions along the way. I would first like to answer the representative from the Central Party, who asked a little about individual matters. I said in my post that the report that came from KPMG was primarily a system report, but the Food Safety Authority has its own studies that make them look at their administrative practices. If those people find out something and see that they have to look at individual things, they're willing to do it. It's not that they won't do it, but they have to look at this from the reports they're making. I got a question from the Labour Party representative: it is absolutely true that the Food Agency has had many unforeseen challenges. It's something that kind of lies in the being of supervision, too, because you never know what's coming. But what I think was a wise answer from the CEO initially, was that no matter what tasks we have, the quality should be good based on the resources we have. That's the message. Then I'll come back to whether I think there might have to be more money on the table in the budget. But they have to use their resources so that we can be sure and trust that the quality of what they're doing is okay. Anyway, that has to be the starting point. The activities of the Food Safety Authority have historically had a very good reputation in the population, for many years. This report and these matters show how quickly trust can be demolished, and how long it takes to build trust. It might show this situation more than ever. I am incredibly concerned about the situation we are in now, that we need to focus on taking sufficient action that works, in the areas that we see in the report have clear challenges, and we need to do this first. Food surveillance must ensure that all persons in contact with them, whether they are subject to supervision or consumers, are adequately maintained, properly informed and properly managed. It's about trust, it's about trust that we can trust them. My final appeal is that the Food Authority should be a supervision that we trust. Administrative practices must then be such that those who are supervised or ask for help can trust that what is coming is done in a good way and that people are met in a way that creates confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e657	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over. So today's map is ready to debate. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e681	The size should now vote on the matters on today's map. Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e695	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 2, by Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 3-14, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 16, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 17 and 18, from Kristoffer Robin Haug on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 17 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to prioritise more money for climate change in municipalities by emphasising the ambition and climate potential of municipalities in the distribution of revenues and framework grants among municipalities.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e730	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e735	It'll be corrected. Then the proposal by 101 versus 2 votes is not accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 18. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to work to promote the announced notification of the follow-up to the 2030 Climate Action Plan before Easter, so that the Stortinge will have a reasonable opportunity to deal with it before the summer.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e754	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to implement a climate reward scheme for business. The CO 2 tax revenue may be allocated to climate funds and advice to enterprises.’» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e774	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-14, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a national expert and support unit for climate budgeting in counties and municipalities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the national climate target to 60 pst. cut by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, and ensure that municipalities must contribute, inter alia, by making the following requirements for municipalities to: a. from 2020 have its own climate budget with concrete actions and responsibilities as a governance document in line with the budget and financial plan. b. assess the climate impacts of all relevant policy treatment issues. c. develop a climate strategy for the ownership of the municipality. d. assess climate risks and opportunities in governance documents for municipal fund placements and other investments. e. remove all fossil emissions from own activities by 2025.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is systematically asked to review and amend State legislation in order to contribute to achieving emissions targets at local and national level.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to extend the local authority’s powers to cut emissions. In particular, municipalities must be allowed to introduce low-emission zones for climate reasons and be able to impose requirements on energy and material use in territorial regulation.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to prioritise more money for climate change in municipalities, inter alia, by: a. extend the Climate Change Scheme vigorously, remove the maximum rate of support and reduce the requirement of self-proportionality. b. provide municipalities with the means to employ more climate and environmental advisors. c. reward pre-municipalities with rapid reductions in climate emissions.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to prioritise more money for climate change in municipalities, inter alia, by increasing its contribution to reducing large municipal point emissions, such as: CO 2 -cleaning of waste incineration.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make public procurement climate-smart, inter alia, by: a. amend the procurement regulation, which today states that environmental requirements can be imposed on acquisitions, in order to impose environmental requirements on public procurement. b. amend the procurement regulation to impose on undertakings that would pre-qualify in public procurement to have documented satisfactory environmental obligations, for example through Environmental Lighthouse certification. c. establish a national procurement strategy using the Oslo municipality model, which determines when renewable or zero-emission solutions are to be selected in public procurement. d. subsidise additional costs of municipal procurement that are more climate, resource and environmental smarter than cheaper alternatives.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to facilitate the planned closure of fossil-based cruise traffic in favour of renewable energy-based cruise traffic, with the following objectives: This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. The fossil-based cruise traffic in Norway must be closed by 2025. b. Norwegian ports shall require shore-side electricity for all calls by 2024.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate and stimulate local green energy production and saving, inter alia, by: a. provide the municipality with a role as initiator and adviser for emission reductions, not only for its own activities, but for the inhabitants and businesses of the municipality. b. strengthening Enova’s potential to stimulate local energy through increased solar subsidies by more, limited up to 50 pst. of the costs of the installation. c. provide energy companies with an obligation to receive local electricity at a fair price negotiated. d. make it easier for municipalities, counties and larger enterprises to obtain a concession for the production of solar energy that they can use or sell themselves. e. provide favourable funding for actions supported by Enova, e.g.: after insulation, heat control, heat pump and collector. This shall cover costs in addition to those supported by Enova and provide more advice and incentives for housing upgrades that provide lower climate emissions.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a national climate reward, for example for petrol, diesel and air travel, in order to increase the uptake of an ambitious climate policy by rewarding all those who act environmentally friendly by paying increased taxes back to people.’ [[also called carbon tax for distribution, KAF]] Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and stimulate local self-financing variants of climate reward schemes in municipalities and county municipalities in order to increase the uptake of an ambitious climate policy.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that statistics on municipal climate emissions are published annually and no later than six months after the end of the year.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e913	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a plan to implement measures and measures for local climate action and real emissions reductions in municipalities. The plan shall be drawn up in cooperation between the State and local government.’.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e930	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to implement a climate reward scheme for business.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e954	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e966	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-06.ana.ud102e1030	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
