ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e84	The representatives Eirik Sivertsen, Mona Fagerås, Aase Simonsen, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen and Stein Erik Lauvås, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate for Eastfold, Bears Laabak, is now taking the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there are two letters to Stortinget, dated 14 February 2020. The first letter deals with changes among the State Secretaries and reads: ‘The City Council was held at Oslo Castle on 14 February 2020 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Anders Bjørnsen Werp shall be dismissed, with effect from 9 March 2020, as Secretary of State of the Council of State Knut Arild Hareide of the Ministry of the Interior. Secretary-General John-Ragnar Kvam Aarset shall be appointed, with effect from 9 March 2020, as State Secretary to the Council of State Knut Arild Hareide of the Ministry of Transport.’ The second letter concerns the appointment of the Council of State and reads: ‘The Council of State on 14 February 2020 decided that the Council of State of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen is to be appointed as the Council of State of the Council of State of Frank Bakke-Jensen in dealing with matters relating to Babcock Scandinavian AirAmbulanse AB, where the Council of State of Bakke-Jensen, because of its spouse’s relationship with the company, is involved or wants to withdraw because he is close to the limit of instability.’ The letters referred to shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e130	The representative, Siv Mossleth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e135	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Adelsten Iversen, Liv Signe Navarsete, Sandra Borch, Bengt Fasteraune and myself, I would like to propose a better flight offer on the short-haul network.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e140	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e145	On behalf of Nicholas Wilkinson, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Arne Nävra, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself, I would like to make a proposal to tighten up the quarantine system for former members of the government, state secretaries and political advisors in the government apparatus.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e150	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e155	On behalf of representatives Lars Haltbrecken, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Solfrid Lerbreck, Freddy André Øvstegård, Nicholas Wilkinson, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a remuneration proposal for politicians – equal rights for King Solomon and Jørgen Haftmaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e161	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e166	On behalf of Morten Ørsal Johansen, Terje Halleland and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for an effective management of the wolf population in line with the stock target.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e171	The representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e191	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e198	I dare to begin by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation, even though I as a case spokesman must also start with a few words about the handling of this matter. When things were going on in the Storting, it was asked for an urgent examination of what was being presented at that time. It was not agreed, but there were many of the parties who took the floor in that debate, and asked for a quick handling. This was the Committee's wish to facilitate the whole process. However, when the cases first come to the Grand Duchy today, it is about the matter and the position that is currently taking place, and the matter that we are going to debate today, there are quite a number of proposals that go beyond what was originally proposed and that have been asked to be dealt with quickly. The first step of the proposal was to ask the government to grant a licence for wolves in Manen and Rømskog. In the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, there are seven different proposals, several of which deal with new deadlines for the management of wild game, the extension of the licensing period, the structure of the predatory game subjects, the new criterion for the removal of wolves, the amendment of the tiller's rules and the modification of the methodology of the stock target. The plurality of the committee – and that includes the Christian People's Party – has certainly had a quick handling of this matter as its goal, since we have been asked to handle it quickly. However, when there have been suggestions that go quite far beyond what we have been asked to handle quickly, the majority have wanted to treat them properly. That is why we have this debate today. Let me remind you that there has now been both a new proposal from the Workers' Party on the management of wolves while this matter has been dealt with by the Committee, and we have received yet another proposal for a representative on the management of wolves before we started today's debate. Let me go into what we're going to debate today. Today we are going to debate the matter, and the majority in the Committee have noticed that the proposers are taking the floor to review a management decision. In the complaint handling of the government, it appears that there is no justification for using § 18c as a basis for a decision on killing, and since that decision was taken, this image has become even more uncertain. The majority of the committee – all the non-participants of the Centre – has noticed that in an appeal between the World Wildlife Fund and the state, Borgarting has given World Wildlife Fund the support that there should not be given birthrights in 2017 for two wolf flocks. The decision displays a section of the same law that has been used here. The case is appealed to the Supreme Court, and the basis of jurisdiction in Section 18(c) has not been clarified. All the time that the foundation has not been clarified, the Storting is likely to complicate the image even more about entering and doing paragraph work and directing the same paragraphs that are now being debated. So you don't want to do it, so the majority have said that you won't vote for the proposals that are being put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e213	The Workers' Party will continue to contribute to a two-fold objective for Norwegian predatory policies, ensuring all the major predatory game species in Norwegian nature while at the same time preserving the use of land areas by agricultural and domestic interests. It is also an objective to ensure the rapid and effective extraction of predators that become particularly close to the population and population, in accordance with the Nature Diversity Act, and where the quality of life of humans is affected. The Labour Party is committed to the current predatory policy and the frameworks set out by the adopted predatory game agreements, which are based on the Nature Diversity Act, the Berne Convention and the majority decision on wolves from 2015 to 2016. The Labour Party is committed to ensuring viable predatory strains in Norway, in line with the Nature Diversity Act and our international commitments. The size has set targets for predator species bear, gloupe, yerv and wolf. The Labour Party believes that it is essential that all parties have respect for the goals set by Stortinget. This implies that when a stock is above the stock target, the stock must be regulated. The Labour Party believes that the leaders of the agreements will help to mitigate the level of conflict between the predatory game management and the grazing industries, and will once again make it clear that we expect the authorities and the administration to follow them up. One of the reasons for the high level of conflict with predators is that many perceive that there is a lack of willingness to comply with the agreed stock targets. The Workers' Party therefore proposes a change to the Nature Diversity Act. The legislative proposal requires greater emphasis to be placed on the achievement of the stock target for predator species in the assessment of point (c). In practice, this will mean that it will be less until the public interest in favour of withdrawals is essential once the stock target has been met. Such a change of law will be within the framework of the Berne Convention and will contribute more to the implementation of the adopted policies of the Grand Duchy. With that, I address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e226	The representative then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e231	Let me just be very clear at first that the Progress Party thinks we have to manage the stock target that Stortinget has set. We're still a little bit away, and that means that we'd like to have the voice of suggestions as an incentive to lead us closer to the stock of the wolf management we have. Unfortunately, the proposals that are being made today do not appeal to it at all. On the contrary, § 18c and the use of it, including the level of predatory game subjects, have given birth decisions for Julussa and Osdalen with our subject to legal testing. When it's not said, it doesn't help for the legislative assembly in the country to be tempted not to do legal work, but rather political, symbolic markings on the Stortinget. This does not lead to any wolf managements getting nearer to the destination and does not lead to muted conflicts. On the contrary, it favours the opposite end of the file. That the center party was running such a game, I almost expected. The fact that the Labour Party now has a message that they want to do the same thing is far more surprising. If we're going to have an administration in line with the stock goal, as the Progress Party is busy, we have to go in and change the laws of nature. I know it's demanding for the government party, but I want to encourage them now to take the situation we're in, seriously. The target stock must be valid. If our legal basis is not strong enough, we really need to change it. That's what it takes. When Osdalen and Julussa were too weak grounds for the robbers and the use of § 18c did not meet with the courts, there is no weaker foundation for the Man and the Roman Forest and the same legalisation of § 18c in the fall of nature is a legal basis for taking out anything. It knows both the Labour Party and the Center Party. Today we are the subject of a political game that is not about a long-term, efficient and resilient management of the wolf population, but which, on the contrary, is about the further tipping of a level of conflict that should have been dampened. For this reason, the Progress Party has today presented a proposal for a representative to the effect that the Storting must do what the Storting should do when the legal basis is not in place, simply to change the law. That's why the Storting is a legislative assembly. The party of progress will vote off the proposals from the opposition today because it is necessary, and then we will return to the necessary legislative amendments in the light of the proposal we have made today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e242	We have a predatory policy in this country that is out of control. Year after year predators have been given priority over grazing animals and community communities. Since this government took over, the number of wolves has been far above the stock. This government, together with the Advance Party, has done nothing to bring the population down. It has become an annual tradition for the government to set aside the decisions of predators. Earlier years, this has happened a few days before Christmas Eve. This year the message came on New Year's Eve, i.e. just a few hours before the hunt started. So the decision of the robbers to take out three flocks was once again overrun by the government. This, of course, has major implications nationally since it once again contributes to the wolf population being well above the stock target adopted by the Stortinge. Each year, during the last years, the pollinators have adopted licensing allowances large enough to meet the stock targets of the Storting, but these are repeatedly reviewed by the Ministry of Climate and Environment. This has led to no withdrawal of the number of wolf flocks to come down to the stock target adopted by the Storting. I would just like to point out that both the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act open the way for Norway to manage the wolf population in line with the Stortinge stock target. It is therefore not possible to claim that the decisions of predators are contrary to the law or to international obligations. It is the government and the ministry that are also responsible for justifying decisions on killing well enough. It may be asked whether the department will deliberately fail to provide the necessary documentation to enable the killing to take place. This is about the fact that the Minister for Climate and Environment of the Left will do his utmost to set aside a wolf management that is in line with the democratically-imposed decisions of the Stortinge on stockpiles, and that the Solberg government has concluded its lifetime on the Left's predatory policy. I am very surprised that the Progress Party accepts this in a situation where the party has left the government, and has repeatedly claimed that the Progress Party representatives will vote in line with their primary position. Today, the Progress Party has the opportunity to secure a majority in favour of a number of the proposals available in this case, but unfortunately they do not seem to want to do so. With that, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e259	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e264	In 1973 the wolf was rescued on a permanent basis in Norway. From the point of view of the extermination of Norwegian nature, we have now got the wolf back, but it is still classified on the Norwegian red list as ‘critically threatened’. Therefore, Stortinget has repeatedly stated that in certain parts of the country, the so-called wolf zone, the wolf must have an extra protection. Then it is alarming that several parties on the Stortinget, including parties that were given peace to the wolf in 1973, now go in to shoot the wolf within the wolf zone – a decision that, if it were made, could have been illegal. Luckily, however, the Progress Party, with which we in SV have little in common in environmental policy otherwise, has realized that the Stortinget cannot ignore the laws and decisions of the Stortinget itself. In this case, the Progress Party has therefore ensured that the two wolf teams in the Mangen and Rumforsk Revirals will also be allowed to live through this hunt. That's what the party deserves. That the Workers' Party believes that the Storting should be able to take decisions that may be contrary to the laws that we ourselves have passed, I find hardly enough words for. The working party also indirectly admits that they are on the edge of the law in the case. They have therefore submitted a proposal to the Stortinget that will weaken the Natural Diversity Act, which will make it easier to shoot predators in the future – predators that are now under threat. The Nature Diversity Act was presented by the Red-Green Government and adopted by the Stortinget in 2009. It's a law we can be proud of, and it's perhaps the most important law of nature protection that's ever passed in Norway. The Nature Diversity Act was established to protect the nature and the basis of our lives, and it also reflects Norway’s international obligations under the Berne Convention. The large predators have an important function as regulators in ecosystems. The predators contribute to the regulation of prey stocks by taking out the sick and weak animals. These are ecosystem services that have a high social value. The main purpose of the management of wolves — and other predators — in Norway must be to raise the status of the wolf from ‘critically threatened’ to ‘viable’, in line with the management objective laid down in the Nature Diversity Act. We are pleased that the Advance Party is saving the wolves this year, but if the Workers' Party gets through its amendment, I'm afraid that the joy can be short-lived.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e281	This case is about the Centerpartiet not wanting wolf in Norwegian nature. They use every opportunity to drive the predators in front of them in order to take decisions to shoot as much as possible. This is a power struggle between the Center Party in the Robbery Zones and legal decisions taken by the majority in Stortinget. It is a majority that is broadly composed, and as the Left, when we sit in government, governs, and as the Right State Council Vidar Helgesen ruled upon when he made the decisions to shoot the wolves in Julussa and Osdalen. It's overtested in Borgarting law now, and it says something about how difficult it is to balance the administration that we're dealing with here. I would encourage the Center Party to take the Workers' Party with me on a study trip to Sweden. They are mildly cursed in Norwegian wolf management, which is so tough that they don't shoot out the number that they could imagine. We have a common responsibility to manage the Scandinavian wolf tribe. We must take this more seriously – it is the Social Democrats and the Environment Party who are in government in Sweden – and it must be a greater part of the debate we are now holding. Then we should spend much more time in the interior, where the wolf son is, on 5,000 young people who don't complete high school and don't get into work, than on spending a lot of time discussing whether to shoot three, four or five wolves illegally. This takes a lot of energy from a lot of people, and I hope that the Workers' Party doesn't fall into the trap and hang out at the Center Party here. The only logical thing is, as the Progress Party does, to say that if you want to change this, you have to change the legislation. The majority parties must take a closer look at this. We have effective management. The decision to fire the Letjänna crew was taken just before midnight in New Year's Eve, and within midnight. 12 days later, that flock was taken out, so we have an effective administration. If you want a change in the number, it's the law you have to go on, and then you have to assess it in relation to international commitments, but also in cooperation with the Swedish administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e292	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a very rough and solution-oriented handling of this proposal – he has spent a lot of time on the matter. The proposers therefore want to take out two revirancies based on a paragraph in which Borgarting Lawyers have passed a judgment. The WWF has been informed that Christmas and Osdalen should not have been allowed to fall. That was better justified than the proposal we are considering here today. This proposal does not contribute to management in line with the stock target, this proposal does not help to mitigate the conflict in the predatory game, I suspect that it may not be the intention of the proposers either. This proposal is legally weaker than the decision taken to withdraw Jullusa and Osdalen. Once again constructing a political notion around something as serious as the predatory game management, is inexhaustible. We need to clarify the legal space for the wolf management within the current legislation. We need responsible, tidy predator management in line with the predatory game deal, we don't need bread and circuses, as it's being put up to here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e302	Today we are discussing whether the Stortinge should force the government to allow the harvesting of two wolf flocks that have no legal or professional grounds for shooting and that have hardly taken sheep. I am pleased that the majority of the population is responsible enough to vote down the proposal, and that is also the case with the Progress Party. That the center party doesn't want wolves is nothing new. The new thing is that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party now have the potential to have a majority for a policy in the Stortinget that can rage Norwegian nature management. When the Workers' Party will try out and then change the law to make it easier to shoot predators, and with it it means that it should be up to those who at all times shout loudest – and a changing majority in the Storting – whether or not we protect endangered species, regardless of scientific judgement, they break with a long and proud history. Over 50 years, Norwegian governments with the Workers' Party as their main driving force have built up a solid legal and regulatory framework for Norwegian nature management. Trygve Bratteli's government established the Ministry of the Environment in 1972, and the Labour Party's Olav Gjærevoll became Norway's first Minister of Environmental Protection. In 1979 Norway signed the Berne Convention, under the Government of Oddvar Nordli, and the Convention entered into force in 1986, under Gro Harlem Brundtland. The Nature Diversity Act was introduced in 2009, under Jens Stoltenberg. The Natural Diversity Act works. It initially halts the shooting of the wolf flocks in Mangen and Rumforskog, an area where only one sheep was registered throughout 2019. The response of the working party is to want to review the law and then propose to weaken it. Wasn't the law supposed to work? The proposal we are now discussing can quickly increase the conflict, not dampen it. If you remove one predator, the other will come to an end. New wolf that hunts alone, takes far more sheep for open revir. The Workers' Party and the Centre Party can thus help to remove wolves living in good coexistence with human society and to release new predators who take much more grazing animals. The wolf is critically threatened, and we need a carefully regulated administration to prevent extinction while preventing the loss of sheep from its food producers. The answer has been to establish areas where the wolf has been able to live without coming into conflict with the grazing industry, and we are only going to take wolves that do harm. The stock target is already low, and according to researchers at the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research, it is below that it should have as its objective to prevent inbreeding and to be in line with Norway’s international commitments to care for endangered species, the Bern Convention. Shooting wolves in the wolf zone is illegal, it's hostile, and it increases the conflict. No one deserves it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e319	When it has our disagreements on the civil side – I will admit that it has happened – sometimes it has our speculations: Can we have a change of government? Then the question always goes to Jonas Gahr Støre: Is the Labour Party ready to take over? The answer is always: we are ready to take responsibility. I have so much believed in them, because I have been very disagreeable with the Labour Party in much, but they have taken responsibility. Now I'm more uncertain, because the Labour Party's decision to support today is as far away from taking responsibility as I think it's possible to come. For now, you're asking the Biggest to instruct the government to convert a government decision. It's itself a very eye-catching and a powerful break with the distribution of legislative and executive power. But not enough with it: the Labour Party will instruct the government to change on an administrative decision without legal basis – and it is in a completely different league. What's more special is that the Workers' Party, at the same time as they do, makes a proposal to change the legal basis. So either is what the Labour Party will do today, illegal, or their own legislative proposals are without meaning. Both parts may not be true at the same time. Setting up a predatory management policy where the mantra is ‘shooting first and asking for it’ is not a responsible environmental policy and it is not a responsible predatory policy. It's quite possible to disagree in predatory game policy, what the legal basis should be and what things are, but what we're talking about here is completely different. The size has joined the Berne Convention. The Storting has taken care of natural handicaps. The wolf is a peaceful species. Should a failure be allowed to occur, the decisions must be in line with the legal framework. When it comes to the concrete thing that happened in winter, it is true that all the licensing quotas adopted by the predators for wolves outside the wolf zone were maintained by the Ministry of Climate and Environment. When it was in force within the wolf's son, we maintained the fall decision on the Letienna Revirate, but we thought that there was no legal basis for taking out the Rømskog and Mengn Revira. It is possible that the Workers' Party knows a lot more about the legal basis than the best in the government apparatus, and much more than the Civilization Law, but in that case I thought that the representative Espen Barth Eide, and also the representative Jonas Gahr Støre and others, could come up here and explain it. To put up with the decisions they want to make today would be extremely problematic, and it would be entirely new; I have not seen anything similar in Norwegian policy. Therefore, I am pleased that the bulk of the potion has chosen not to go in for it. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e339	We see that this creates great commitment both for and against. The exposure was also recently expressed in the form of a large cross-political mark that many organisations were behind, in front of the Stortinget. They did not demonstrate against the robberies agreement, but they demonstrated for something so unusual that the Storting should comply with their own decisions. Now we have heard that one of the representatives of the government parties thought that this was a reconstructed problem, but when we get the evidence from those who live with wolves and close to wolves, and hear about the uncertainty and fear they feel – does that not impress the council?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e346	It makes an impression on the Council of State. It doesn't make any sense to the extent that I mean the Storting, as the representative Söstad suggests, should go beyond the laws Stortinget itself has agreed. But that makes sense anyway, because I know it's very demanding both economically and emotionally for people who experience finding sheep on pasture that's taken by wolves – or by you, who every year take many more sheep. I fully understand that. At the same time, Stortinget has said that we're going to have wolves in Norway, we're going to have the other big predators, and we're going to run a management where we can handle both things. That is demanding, but then I would also say that fortunately we are in a situation where the loss of sheep on pasture has not been lower since we started to register it. The loss of sheep to wolves has not been lower in ten years. In other words, there have been no more sheep since the last Central Party and the Labour Party were in government. I believe that the representative will be able to communicate to those who contact him.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e353	I think we have to look at a lot of things. It's clear that once we've defined wolf zones, which means that you've pushed out the grazing industry, areas where the industry is shut down, there will never be any loss of sheep. We are also in favour of a two-part administration. We want a sustainable predatory strain while at the same time wanting to care for grazing, but within the law, regulation and international conventions, we also have the opportunity to take into account the people who live close to the wolf. My question will then be: will not the minister feel natural that it is also important to listen to those who have these experiences?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e362	When it applies to the grazing situation within the wolf's son, it is worth noting that there are more sheep there now than there were 20 years ago. The representative that Seestad says is not correct. When it comes to the room for action here, we are in a situation where the courts – at Borgarting Lawyers – have now established, at least as they judge it, that the room for action is not larger than the Ministry of Climate and Environment has threatened, but actually less. Now I have appealed to the Supreme Court. That's what I think I'm right because he's having pretty big consequences. But then I also think it's right that we let the courts do their job. What we need now is a legal clarification. I hope that the Supreme Court will take this matter, so that we can get a legal clarification on the precisely space of action within both the laws of nature, the Berne Convention and the Stortinge's own decisions. Starting to fool the legal image now by making a series of hasty decisions without a basis, as the Labour Party suggests, will only make the job harder for the predators, who will take new management decisions during the year, and for those who live with this situation out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e371	I agree with the Council of State that the proposals put forward by the Labour Party and the Center Party are not going to lead us closer to managing the stock target, which, after all, must be the Stortinge's overarching goal. But precisely because it is the legal basis, which the government also attaches so much importance to, which is the actual obstacle to managing the stock that the Stortinget has set to be four–six young people per year, the question is: Will the Council of State, as a direct consequence of the fact that it is the law that stands in the way of managing according to the stock target, go away from the formulations of the Granavolden platform and bring about the necessary changes in the natural default laws of § 18, first paragraph, points (b) and (c)?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e376	Our view is that the space for action is present, and that it is large enough to govern according to the stock measures that the Storting has wanted. So Borgarting's law has our differences with the government in it. That's why we've asked for that verdict to be annuled. What we need now, is to get a legal clarification of the exact size of this space of action. And then I want to stress that we're working to reach the different population targets, as Stortinget wants us to. We're on some predators, and we're well under on other predators. I notice that the commitment to the Storing to reach the stock measure when we're below it is considerably less than when we're facing other species, but it's now. But the destination alone can't control the policy, because Storting doesn't only have a set of file targets. The Storting has passed a natural default law, the Stortinget has joined the Berne Convention, and it has been said quite clearly, both from the judiciary and from the Law Department – and we agree – that one must see all these things in context when one takes the necessary management decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e383	If the laws stand in the way of managing the stock target, there's something wrong with it, not the stock target. I believe that the Council of State can assume that the plurality of the Stortinget means. Then the question is: Will the government actively stick to its assessment that the legal basis is not in place to manage the stock target, and thus be involved in actually changing the law, or will the government continue to stand firm on a process that increases the level of conflict in the predatory game issue, despite a wolf settlement with broad agreement in 2016? That's the core of the question we're facing right now. The alternative to the fact that the government council and the government parties are aware of the seriousness is that the Stortinget is responsible for this legal work itself. Therefore I ask again: in the light of the political situation, in the light of the situation we have in Wolfesona, will the government be with and open up to necessary changes in the laws of nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e390	I would like to repeat that the government believes that today's natural disaster law and the Berne Convention give us sufficient room for action to pursue a responsible poaching policy and to take both of us into consideration when we are going to take the necessary decisions, and that it gives us room to reach the stock targets that the Storting has wanted for the various wild gamers, whether it's going to go down or it's going up. We record that the courts have said that they disagree in our view of the space of action according to Section 18(c), but that judgment is not yet valid, so he's going up to the Supreme Court, so I'm going to raw the Storting to have some ice in his stomach and let the courts do their job, so that we can figure out what the space of action actually is, before you start discussing whether it should be expanded or restricted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e398	In recent years, the government has raised doubts about the role and competence of predators through the constant review and review of their decisions. The regional predators have several times created headquarters for the government because they have followed up the Storting decision on how to manage predatory species in a professional and knowledge-based manner. They also bring important local competences into Norwegian predatory management. The same thing can't be said about this government. In 2011, predatory wildlife subjects were part of the agreement and the whole system is to ensure local and regional management of predatory policies. The fact that the government is now obviously working on major changes and has to halve the predatory wildlife subjects is completely contrary to the looting agreement. What will the Council of State achieve by bringing together the predators of larger regions, and having the Council of State confidence in the job being done today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e405	The government has confidence in the authorities. This government is for us to have predators, and we agree with the representative Borch that they add useful local knowledge. But if that's how the Center Party thinks that the decisions of the predators won't be able to attack, they won't be able to complain to anyone, then they'll suggest it to the Stortinget. If they think that the predators should have the last word, they'll have to suggest it to the Storting. Because it's not the scheme that the robber agreement adds, or that the Storting has agreed to. When it comes to this specific matter, it is that for the Mangen Reviret and the Rømskog Revirate, the names did not lead to a concrete discussion, as the Storting had asked them to do, when they made the decisions. Therefore, in the complaint procedure we asked the denominators to make a new attempt. We sent the case back and asked them to provide a new reason. They didn't. Then it is imperative for us to conclude in any other way than that the legal basis does not exist, and that the terms in and separately were unanimous in it when they did not come up with a foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e412	First of all, I must commend the posts of the Council of State. I think it was glittering. I also think that he went through the legal basis of his position and the position of the department in a tidy way. It is a fact that Sweden has largely taken responsibility for obtaining viable populations of predators in Scandinavia. I doubt that we had had populations of wolves in Norway without Sweden. I am in doubt that we had a bear at all in South Norway without Sweden. My question to the Council of State is: have the Swedish authorities been in any way in contact with the Norwegian authorities on this matter concerning the two wolf teams, either at administrative level or at political level?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e421	When it's about the Rumforskog Revir, it's a boundary revir. When the decision was taken to take it out, it was, if I think correctly, routinely sent on the phone – so to speak – to the Swedes, and then received a very clear feedback that they did not want it to be taken out. It is not the governing alone, but is of course one thing that matters and assesses when a decision is taken in a complaint procedure. Because it is a fact that we manage the South Scandinavian wolf tribe together with Sweden, where Sweden has a significantly larger part of the tribe than Norway has. We're going to take our share. In this room, there's a strong view of how much predators we're going to have in Norway. The proposers are against having wolves in Norway as a whole. There is not a multiple in Stortinget for. Then, as the responsible state council in the field, I have to stick to it, and I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e428	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e435	I'm not going to say so much about the legal basis of this round, but I'll say a little about the positions behind the proposal that have been put forward. So we've allowed the wolf to breed in a limited number of a very small area, called the wolf zone, naturally towards the border with Sweden, because that's where the main weight of the population in Scandinavia is, and since we're still feeding animals from there. Now we are in the situation that in Norway we have a very special regime, we have to say, with this to set some kind of political thank-you for our populations. I can't see on the go any other countries that are doing this special exercise. At the same time, we have one of Europe's smallest populations of wolves. And as I said, without Sweden, we had barely had a wolf population in Norway. The wolf is one of the most hated of our four great predators, but at the same time the smallest pest of them. And we have some more facts. In the wolf zone, there is mainly no sheep free from grazing. So the wolf in the zone doesn't take sheep, but the Center Party and the Workers' Party will shoot it anyway. The sheep taken in Norway is taken outside the zone and largely by Swedish wolves walking westwards. It's a reality. Clear data shows it. So it's the Swedish parliament we can say rules over Norwegian sheep losses. So a strange, but still clear fact to: puppies born of Norwegian couples in the son walk largely eastwards into Sweden and do not cause losses in the large grazing districts westwards. It's also a fact. It's just reading to. That's why I want to say it like this: there probably won't be any greater loss of sheep because of the wolf whether there are three, six, eight or ten flocks within the wolf zone. We should think about this. Nevertheless, these two flocks are to be shot in Man and Rumforskog, according to the Center Party and the Workers' Party. State Council Rotevatern interprets the law clearly and correctly to say no. This became even clearer after we received the judgment of the Lawyers' Court in the WWF case for the two flocks that were shot in 2017. So why should these flocks be shot at death and life? Don't bite the sheep, they don't act in any way abnormal and scare people, it's not law enforcement to shoot them, and at the top of it all, we're going to shoot a red-listed species that's at least in this country. What are we actually doing? What is the subjugating motive for driving this wolflike act? Is it that the wolf actually takes deer, elk and deer? Yeah, it's not vegetarian. Or is everything just an open proposal to the local voices that always shout loudest? That's a nearby question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e446	As always, there are some peculiarities of these debates. The Swedish Environment Party and the Green Party argue in their contributions as if there were no decision in the Storting on stock targets, as if there were no predatory game settlement, as if they were on a planet other than the bulk of population. The left hand post is usually more about the centre part than about the left hand part. It's nice, but it's a little symptomatic gradually. In order to clarify: the centre party agrees with the surveyors. We want to get down to the goal that Stortinget has set. The fact is, today we are overcast. The stock target is four to six coals, today we are between eight and nine. That is also the basis for the whole debate we have here today. Then we have the Progress Party, which still appears to be the main supporting party of the Left, in opposition, in terms of predatory policy. They show today that they are more concerned with the game than with the case. They're trying to hide behind a court-martial. But you don't have to hide behind any law enforcement to support the proposals. 1 and 2, which could have had a majority here today. The progress party behaves here today just like some weird kids: if we haven't suggested that sail, we won't vote for it either, let's say if the matter is important. It's a shame it'll be like that. It is also alarming with a government council using its own intervention not to explain the government’s view but to attack political opponents. It's new from a state council. He also goes far in confirming a court-martial that he has appealed. It is the state that has appealed to the court of law you have now received, and then it is a bit funny that both the Right Party and the Advance Party and the Council of State press it to their breasts. It's a verdict that the government probably believes is wrong, and that's why you've appealed it. I think it's a very interesting verdict, the court-martial. The judgments in that judgment are interesting. They strongly support the assessment by the majority of the population of the population, which is now sky high above, and they also endorse the majority interpretation of Section 18(c) of the Nature Diversity Act and that we are not in conflict with the Berne Convention. Inadmissibility considerations are linked to the concrete assessments of the two rivals that were made last year, not to the general debate that we have had on both the use of § 18(c) and the fact that having a stock of four to six coal is threatening the survival of the stock. We find no support for it in the Lawyers' Court. On the contrary, we find far-reaching support for the large number of people who have actually adopted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e461	The President will point out that we should not characterize each other in this room, and the characteristic of "firth children" probably goes into that category. I'll ask the representative next time choose another word.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e466	Left Representative Kjenseth asked the Center Party to travel to Sweden on a study trip. I was in Sweden from Monday to Wednesday. I was in Stockholm, but I was also in Värmland, where they live with the wolf close by. I can tell you that there is a completely different reality in Värmland than the one I meet in the streets of Stockholm. The predatory debate in Norway is marked by sharp fronts. Why is that? Despite the fact that it is an objective to reduce the conflicts, we see the opposite trend. Conflicts are increasing. It is largely due to the fact that those living with the wolf do not feel that the Great Britain's predatory settlement is being followed up, that the son has become a reserve, that the system adopted in this room to implement the Great Britain's wolf policy is being repeatedly over-tested and trained by government councils in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. That is the starting point for what we are debating today. Rovviltnenne for Østfold, Oslo and Akershus gave a clear signal for the felling of the wolves in the banks of Manken and Rømskog. This was – almost as usual – complained to the ministry, and it is completely legal. That complaint took the ministry an unusually long time to deal with last year. Yes, you actually broke the tradition of presenting the decision little Christmas Eve, and waited until twelve hours before the license hunt was to begin. Then they published rejections. It's unsustainable. It is unsustainable for the confidence in the follow-up of the breeding stock settlement, it is unsustainable for those who are required to implement decisions and it is unsustainable for those who live with the wolf in their everyday lives. Unfortunately, the fact that the government lands on such a decision is not surprising. What is a little more surprising today is that the Progress Party writes in notes that they really agree with the Center Party, but that it is important to clarify the legal space within the current legislation. What is important to clarify is not the legal space. What is important to clarify is whether there is a political will to carry out what was actually the will and core of the predatory settlement, adopted in this Chamber. Then it will be hollowed out when the Progress Party chooses not to vote for the proposals No. 1 and 2, but pushes forward a non-judicial judgment. It is perhaps the case with regard to the judgment in the Law of Lawyers, that the government is so sure in its case that they have appealed it to the Supreme Court, but the Advance Party chooses to hesitate. The Progress Party is pushing ahead with a non-judicial judgment – a judgment with hers, and a judgment that was really about proceedings and not real content. Is the Progress Party afraid that the government will be wrong when they have appealed the case? That's the basic question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e481	This is not about the Centerpartiet going to shoot all the wolves in Norway. It's about the Central Party going to ensure the implementation of the robberies deal that a large majority of people in this room are behind. We all agree that we are now far beyond the goal. The debate here is almost marked by the fact that we have not heard of this stock target. It sounds like the council doesn't know we have a goal, and if he knows we have it, he almost considers it a minimum goal. This proposal is a contribution to alleviating the conflict and to restoring respect for this room as regards the implementation of the Robbery Agreement. Above all, it will help to prevent new bloodbaths when the grazing animals are soon released, but unfortunately it is voted down in the hall today. That the Left, SV and MDG go in to train the wolf's socket and prevent us from getting down on the stock target, is not surprising, because that's what they've gone to for. But that the Progress Party now has to pursue exactly the same policy as the SV, the MDG and the Left and help us get even further away from the stock target than we have been, is both shocking, frightening and very disappointing. The training of large-scale decisions would be a belief that was not government policy, but it is the first time we have had 10,000 who have demonstrated on the outside of the Storting, just to have a decision taken by a magnificence. Then I was recommended a study trip to Sweden. We have absolutely nothing to learn from Sweden when it comes to predator management. We know that in Sweden the districts are depopulated, the grazing industry is alienated from the districts for predators, and we know that the Sami reindeer in Sweden is under strong pressure because of the predatory situation. Now Sweden has not properly ratified the ILO Convention. Norway has done so, but it does little to help as long as we do not take it seriously. The loss of grazing animals is reduced, says the Council of State and boasts of it. There is not so much to boast about when it is at the expense of reduced jobs in the districts, it is at the expense of the exploitation of grazing resources, and it is at the expense of housing in the district municipalities. If we push the grazing industry out of all the municipalities in Norway, of course, losses to predators will be zero, but that is far from a goal for the Center Party. We want a living district nutrition. We want to make use of that grazing resource. We need to ensure that the decision on enlargement is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e492	Both the SV's representative and the Right's representative, and as usual the State Council, ask: What is the Central Party actually doing? What is your project? Well, our project is to listen to people, listen to those who know the consequences of politics on the body. Our project is to follow up the Storting decision. We wanted a lower stock target, and then a stock target was set – and what we have a wish for now is that what was adopted as a stock target in 2016 should actually be followed up. Our project is that once the Storting has established local and regional predatory wildlife subjects, their decisions should be taken into account and not overestimated. We who sit in this room are elected by the people. We represent people, and we should listen to people. And the reason why the level of conflict is so high in the discussion about predators is not the political debate, but the fact that people are being run over again and again. Then I hear the Green People's Party say that there is a good coexistence between human society and the Mänken and Rømskog groups. But if you ask those who live there, they're completely disagreeable, and that's the same basic idea that the government uses. When we had the Robbery Agreement in 2016, the government came with a stocking target of six to eight animals. Then there was a rebellion in the Storting, and Right Gunnar Gunnarsen was among those who led and got pressured his own right government in the knee, down to four to six. But when I hear the Right Representative here today, it is quite clear that the Right in the Storing is now completely on the line where the government has been all the way, that the stock measure of six to eight is the one that really is the leading. We've seen that in Stortinget, too, that the government has repeatedly moved on a line that is higher than the population target of four to six animals. Then the level of conflict becomes high. The problem in the wolf debate is that those who have a lot of power sit far away from the problem and teach those who know the problem and have little power. It is experienced over and over again, and that is what is now also experienced in the context of the Manhood and Space Forest Reviruses. You have planned a hunt, you have to take it out, you feel that you follow the decision of the Storting. But then the government is so arrogant – the government in which the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been put in – that it makes a decision about that pursuit on New Year's Eve. In the middle of New Year’s Eve – I don’t quite remember when it was, like around one or two o’clock – the decision came out, and the hunt was really going to start the next day. What kind of arrogance is it to people? There have been hundreds of hours of hard work, there have been broken roads, things have been put in place and a hunt has been planned on behalf of what you experience as the will of the Storting, what you see as the decision of the robbers. But then it's stopped for 24 hours before, by the government. It's arrogance, it's not listening, it's not respect. And proposal No. 2 in this case, which we are involved in promoting, is just about dealing with those issues before, so that people who are going to plan it, don't spend so much unnecessary time. So my main advice to the government is: start using the ears, start listening, start taking people seriously – then the level of conflict will go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e512	There's a lot of great things in the Norwegian administration. Wide settlement in important issues that have major consequences is one thing. Of the similarities that we can draw up today, the predatory game deal, which many people consider to be very important. We have a two-part objective: we want good grazing, and we want a wild game strain. If we're going to get to this, we're going to have to have a stock goal, and the prey agreement is very clear on the stock goal. The most important message of the robberies settlement was to mitigate the conflicts. I hope the government notices that hoggafler and torches are hardly an expression of the desire to show their sympathy with the government's policy. The protests that have been, both outside the Storting and around the country, have not happened to protest against what Stortinget has done. No, it has happened to show that they want the Storting decision to be implemented. The fact that most people in Norway have a good relationship with predators is because we've been good at managing our predators. We have regulated the amount of them and thus got what we have today – with the exception of what is happening now, and what has happened in recent years. The centre party says that we have the opportunity to vote for today's proposal. Yes, we're aware of that, but for the Progress Party, it's the result of the proposals that you make, which are important, not necessarily to make speckles and go for symbols. As the matter stands now, the Progress Party believes that we will not achieve anything by voting in favour of these proposals. The Progress Party fully agrees with the Centre Party and agrees with that intention: we do not want a single wolf more in Norwegian fauna than what the settlement opens for. But when we don't have a law that can realize such a proposal, we have to see if there's another way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e525	The representative of the Workers' Party explained very well the views of the Workers' Party on the location of the stock target, and the two-part administration, which the majority of the population have decided to have in Norway. One important point and premise for the debate, which has been mentioned here, is that the Storting has set a democratically adopted stock target. Other parties, which were not part of the agreement, may disagree, but that is what the Stortinget, the National Assembly of the country, has decided, and that is what should underpin the administration. Another point is that the stock target is set as a whole, in conjunction with the rest of the policy, and it is in line with the overall agreement reached on the Stortinget. In some speakers, you can get the impression that the stock target is different from the rest of the policy, but it is wrong. It is part of the package and there are four to six annual puppy coals which are the agreed stock targets of the Storting and which the Workers' Party is standing by. What the Workers' Party is doing is just to clarify that we are stuck to the goal of survival, and that of course it is to be followed up as the Stortinget has decided. There has been little participation from the Right so far in the debate. It is worrying, for the one with the greatest responsibility here is the Right-Leader and Prime Minister Erna Solberg, who has left the whole responsibility to the Left, who disagrees with the whole objective. It gets to be Left's case, but it's Erna Solberg's responsibility that this has not been followed up, and that the population has become twice as large during her time as the Great Britain has democratically adopted. For claims related to the management of the zone: State authorities have approved regional plans, and there are two important things to cover: ‘The emphasis shall also be on achieving burden-sharing through the replacement of conflict-filled family groups when the stock situation permits, so that the same areas do not maintain long-term family groups.’;» This is directly relevant to the matter we are discussing today. It has also been pointed out, among other things. in the eastern part of the country. In addition, the approved plans of State authorities include: «When the stock reaches the stock target, the collation of wolves within the wolf zone will be an important conflict mitigation measure.» So this is completely in line with what the state itself has approved. That is why frustration becomes so great when what has been democratically adopted in this Chamber is not followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e548	I think most people in this room agree that the type of wolf management that this proposal puts up to is not especially life-creating. It is not in the Stortinget that you have to make the killing decision for individual flocks. The size of the stock adopts the framework but shall not operate the current management of the stock over the year. I really believe that the rapporteurs also agree with that. At the same time, it is difficult not to have a certain understanding that this matter came, because we do not get away with the fact that we have a wolf management in Norway that simply does not work. The predatory debate, especially in the case of wolves, has always been conflicted. However, I dare say that the wolf settlement reached in 2016 as a broad majority in the Great Britain, at least approaching something that a majority of the areas most affected by the wolf could also live with. We were about to get something that could actually bring the level of conflict down. That's why it's so doubtful that we now, for the fifth season in a row, are in a situation where the wolf population is far above the stock. In line with the leaders given by the Storting before being reviewed by the Government, the surveyers make their decisions on licensing allowances. The result of this is that the predatory game management out there now has a trust that's roughly equal to zero. It cannot continue that way, and it is the responsibility of the government. The wolf in Norway is part of a southern Scandinavian wolf tribe. It's a very viable population of at least 400 individuals. How Norway will manage its subpopulation is entirely up to us. Of course, we have to promise how to do that. We must, of course, provide an adequate basis of trust for the killing permits granted. That is why this proposal is problematic. It is important that we now clarify the basis of the house, but I will not fail to say that unfortunately I have a feeling that when it comes to getting down to the stock target that the Stortinget has set, political will in the Ministry of Climate and Environment is also a significant problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e559	I would like to refer to the excellent presentations already made by my colleagues, Mr Seestad and Mr Sandtrøen, in this matter, but I would like to stress very strongly that for the Workers' Party it is important both to have and to maintain a two-part objective, i.e. to maintain sustainable predatory strains and to take into account grazing, in line with the Storting's decision. The Workers' Party is proud to have contributed to the Natural Diversity Act and is solid on it. The working party is also proud to have contributed to and voted for the predatory game likes, including in 2016, and the stock target. And then we're very concerned that these things are going to hang together and have to hang together and be perceived as being related. As many have been involved in this debate, there is a significant centre-periphery conflict in this, which we should not take lightly. There's a strong feeling in large parts of the country, a bit away from the capital, that the authorities are saying one thing and doing something else. Few things are more suitable to undermine trust in central authorities and confidence in adopted policies. Not all parties have taken part in this debate, which agreed on the stock target set. Both the Left and the SV, and also the Center Party, voted against it, but we were behind it. We believe that the stock target should reflect the overall policy and that it should be taken seriously. So we've seen in the treatment of this that there's a contradiction, really, between the natural diversity law as formulated, and this stock goal, and we want to bring this together. We do not want in any way to move away from the obligations of the Berne Convention – we have done so explicitly – and therefore, in our proposal, the whole of the first paragraph should be as it says, but then, in the second paragraph, we shall also make a reference to the serious intention of the stock target – the size was behind this. That's a very important clarification. I don't think the level of conflict in this case is going to be zero, but I think we can get it down if you're more clear that there's a connection between what the Storting says about a stock target, which has an upper and lower limit, and the practice you're leading in line with it, not slave, not without taking any other consideration, but so that there's a great deal of emphasis. It will also increase respect for having sustainable predatory wildlife strains in the most affected parts of the country. That's why I think it's important to recognise that this is a matter where there are strong opinions in both directions. Our job is to find the best possible compromise that best meets both the need for sustainable strains and the need to take into account grazing and other general interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e574	I am a son-in-law of agriculture, I am an agricultural friend, and I am a district friend, who has voted and fought against all centralization, by which the centre party is also concerned: community merger, police reform, liberalisation of the taxi industry, fewer taxis in the districts, struggled with beaks and claws and voted down on the number of postal loads in the districts, fighting for more funds for less use in the districts, so that they will use more of their own feed, smaller imports, more seamounting, etc. I'm a member of the Small User Team. I also had problems if I knew that the number of wolves in the zone is threatening agriculture in Norway in any way. But when it is by no means near to any threat to agriculture and the districts how many flocks are inside the wolf zone, I must protest. No one is going along with Norwegian agriculture, who does not know that the real threat to Norwegian agriculture is the WTO, it is the EU, it is liberal trade regimes, the policy of right-wing forces in the Storting towards industrial big business – that is what is the enemy. We know this. But it's much easier to shoot a wolf than the WTO. Where exactly is the WTO? The EU knows we are partly in Brussels, but what then? The wolf is easier. It can be traced, encircled and shot. It is sought to see that the Centre Party does not understand, and even more disappointing that the Workers' Party does not understand, that in terms of the majority's view here in the country and in order to be accepted for an agricultural policy that requires a lot of transfers, for an agricultural policy that serves the community and the districts, such shooting positions are a bear service just for the districts and the industry. In the long term, the industry needs all the support it can get, including from the environmental movement, from the environmental parties and all those who want green, viable communities. Otherwise, probably Norwegian agriculture is really red-listed. Time and again, legislative, research and Norwegian nature management proposals have been attacked by the Centre Party or neighbouring communities, and accusations of the neutrality and results of the researchers, and all accusations and suggestions have been rebutted time and time again. Claims and suspicions that the genetic test is incorrect have also been rejected. The fact that there are hybrids or animal park wolves in the wolf trunk is also refuted. Killing and shooting shall always be the answer to conflicts or challenges, without a knowledge base, at the very last moment when shooting oats because of the decline of the bird population. It's sad. As far as Stortinget and Norwegian game management are concerned, I say as Nordahl Grieg, ‘Youth must still be the world’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e587	To answer a little bit of what has come in the course of the debate: firstly, enough representative Arnstad is right that it is relatively unusual that I use so much of my post not only to explain my government's policy, but also to criticise the decision that is on the table. The reason is that this is such an unusual suggestion that I think it's right to address it. It is possible the representative Barth Eide and the representative Arnstad have examples of the second time they have voted to instruct a government to convert an administrative decision when the government thinks there is no legal basis for doing so. In that case, I am very interested in getting those copies up here, and we can discuss them. I can't think of anything. When the representative Arnstad goes on to say that the plural is hiding behind the law courts, I would say that there is a view of the rule of law that is, to put it mildly, alarming. But it's not that we, as one also says, print it to our chest. On the contrary, I have said that we will appeal because we disagree with him, and the Ministry of Climate and Environment believes that the room for action is larger than the law of the team. But we still have to stick to it, as a responsible government. Then I would also point out that this proposal was submitted before that judgment came, so it had nothing to do with it. We also said before the verdict came, that we thought it was initially not a legal basis for making the two decisions that one here wants to make. That the dome has come, it emphasizes the point, and actually makes it even more serious that one wants to make the decision that the Labour Party and the Center Party want to make today. So, for stock. Well, the government is in charge of stockpiling when we run the game of prey. We put a lot of emphasis on them both in the case of wolves and in the case of bears and other predators. We're a little over on someone, we're well under the other -- the commitment here is out of order in the first category, but it's still something we're heading for. When it is said that when one treats predatory game like in the Storting, and when the majority decision on wolf was made, then this great thing clearly said that the administration, including the goal of survival, must take place within the framework of the laws of nature and the Berne Convention. So we can't just go by the goal, because the Storting has asked us not to go by the goal alone, but to take care of it. There is hardly one representative here today, and that seems to me to be alarming. Then, as I also said in the lines, I have great respect for the fact that there is a different view of predatory policies, both party and representative, and I understand that it is an important matter for those in debt. I like to discuss it with the Center Party, with the Advance Party, with the Labour Party and with others. But what we must all be able to do is that in Norway we run a state-of-the-art administration within the limits of the laws adopted by the Stortinget. It should be with respect to report a totally uncontroversial starting point for a debate. That the Center Party and the Labour Party don't want to see it, nor through their posts here today, or to come up with some particularly interesting counter-argument for what we're leading here to squares, I think I'm strange to register. I hope that there will be no way forward in these important debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e598	First of all, when one hears the debate and hears both the SV and the Greens' Greens' lack of respect for the wolf settlement, there is at least no doubt that it is a contempt for people who call for the consequences of predatory policies, in a way that does not pay particular attention to the Storting. Therefore, when the basis of confidentiality is not strong enough to manage the stock targets, it is necessary to make the necessary changes to the legal basis. When a central party representative listens to the pulpit today, which refers to the legal basis almost as a sensitive parentheses, I don't think the Stortinget takes it sufficiently seriously that it's actually the legislative assembly. The fact that magnificence representatives who are outlawed lawyers refer to it in the same law is more surprising than anything else. It's probably because the representative Arnstad first and foremost concentrated on the two proposals that didn't fit in, in an attack on the Progress Party. I think it was a wise approach. It is obvious to everyone that the legal basis on which the Central Party bases these proposals, unfortunately with the support of the Workers' Party, is not entirely in place. To one of the other proposals, e.g. proposal No 2, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. : I am asked why the Progress Party does not vote for it – there is no legal issue in it. What would an advanced deadline, an absolute deadline from the Storting for the effective adoption of the management decision, entail? Indeed, there is less scope for policy assessments, emptying out, new rounds to check the space for action and more power for environmental management when such decisions are to be taken. The intention behind the proposal I fully share, but I believe the consequence of it will be the very opposite of what the Workers' Party and the Center's will, or mean by it, when they make such a proposal. I believe it gives more power to the Environment Directorate and to the Ministry of Climate and Environment on its own, that it is the direct consequence of the proposal. That is why I am not voting against the proposal because the Central Party has done so, but I am voting against it because it is a bad proposal. I don't vote for bad suggestions, either when the Center Party has brought them up – even in cases where we have a lot of common sense with the Center Party, such as managing Storting's stock decisions. That is what this matter is all about. It's about the fact that we're actually taking responsibility for having a wolf administration in line with the Stortinget's set stockpiles based on a legal basis, where the Center Party and the Labour Party have unfortunately let themselves be fooled into running political games in the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e609	I noticed that the Council of State said instead that now it is important to give more time in this matter. This is exactly what the government has done over and over again, year after year — given time to ensure that the clear decisions taken by the Stortinget in terms of stock targets are trained so that they do not fall on the stock target set by the Stortinget. Once upon a time, the predators have been tested – not once, not twice, but repeatedly, year after year. As a result, there has been a fundamental mistrust of the forest game management in Norway. One has lost confidence that one actually follows the decisions of the Stortinget. Even I live in the neighborhood of the Manganese. When I hear representatives in this room stand up and lecture and describe how glittering coexistence is between the different interests, I think these representatives could have come to the neighbourhood and talked to those who live there. One could have set up at the people's meeting that was at the Bjørklangen, where hundreds of people met, and where a so far also attached trust to the representatives of the Progress Party, who said that when they were now out of government, one would no longer hold his protective hand over the Manken-fleet, but one would see to it that it was taken out. To the representative Dale, who talks about others being lawyers: maybe someone would have wanted Dale to be a lawyer himself, he could have represented WWF in the appeal against the state. For the procession of WWF's case, a long look must be made! A pusher imagines a judgment which is not enforceable at the moment, in order to ensure that one does not implement the decision taken earlier by the Stortinge in relation to the predatory game policy. The law is also clear that it is fully possible to operate in line with the stock target while at the same time respecting our international obligations. There are many today who are disappointed by the Greatness, when one no longer has a majority government, who had the opportunity to ensure that the Greatness' will was carried out. Unfortunately, this is not happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e622	It's interesting to hear the representatives of Dale and Halleland from the Progress Party. The Progress Party has claimed that they have come out of prison, but it reminds me more of open settlement with reporting obligations when one hears the representatives [[muttering in the hall]] I really want to talk about proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The Granavolden Declaration says to create a complaint subject. At least the party of progress has officially said that they are not on the declaration of Granavolden, even if the government does, but the party of progress will not vote in favour of proposal No. 4, which seeks to ensure that the structure of predatory wildlife subjects is firm, and that the proposal to transfer final decision-making power in complaints in the predatory game field to an independent national complaint subject is removed. We just heard the representative Dale argue why the Progress Party would not vote in favour of proposal No. 2, at the latest one month before hunting. He was afraid that power should be shifted away from elected democratic bodies and into the Environment Directorate. But the proposal of an independent, national complaint subject will also shift power away from this hall. Today, this House can point to the Council of State if we disagree with the decisions of the Council of State. An independent, national complaint subject will move power out of this house. Who is it then that the Storting should be held responsible if it is this subject of complaint that is to be decided, and not the Council of State? This is a huge political area. We see that from the debate today, and we know that from the debates that have gone before, so moving power away from the Council of State and over to an independent, national complaint topic will be moving this into the closed room and away from the elected forums. I knew that the Progress Party was happy in the state, but that it was as far as you wanted to go, I had not thought. We may disagree or agree with the Council of State on the policy of robbery, but the Council of State is at least equivalent to the Stortinget and is held accountable here. This cannot be done with an independent complaint subject. It would have been interesting to hear the reasons for not voting in favour of proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e641	There have been said some things from the pulpit that cannot stand undisputed. One is that the right does not participate in the predatory debate. It's directly wrong. The right is involved in these debates across the country, and everyone who goes along with the predatory question knows that. The second is that the government and the Right are not on the robberies deal. It's also directly wrong. We're on the robberies deal. At the same time, we are on the consensus that was reached on the Nature Diversity Act, and we are on effective predator management. The last post we heard here now was an article against a more efficient predatory management. The government has also appealed the verdict in the law of the law because we believe that the space for action is larger than what has been suggested. At the same time, there will be legal clarification from the Supreme Court about the wolf management action room within the existing legislation. So to the Workers' Party, which appears so high and dark in this debate: it's strange how long you can be tall and dark when you go worse and worse with your own party. When they suddenly decided to make proposals on predatory policies, it was after the Senter Party had promoted its own proposals. This has become the Working Party's mode of operation. We'll see about that. The so-called eagle has crashed on insecure ground. If the government proposes a more efficient public sector, then the Workers' Party may be involved first, but then they look for what the Centre Party is doing, and then they turn around. When the Workers' Party, a little while ago, decided to weaken the policy that this country is leading for zero-emission cars, it was because they're following the Center Party. So I want to congratulate the representatives of Battle Violence Vedum, Arnstad, Myhrvold and Borch. It is these representatives who are the real opposition leader in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e655	It is good that the representative Heggelund emphasises that the Right People are concerned with predatory policy, because that is true. I meet very many in my own part of the country who are very dismayed by this government's predatory game management, who are disappointed by the lack of willingness to listen to those who have animals in grazing priority areas, who experience unpredictable management, and who feel that they are not being listened to in terms of administration, whether it is wolf or bear. I have a few comments on the debate. For the Central Party, it is important that there are some deadlines for government, so that people know what they should be dealing with. I think that is generally common sense in general government. The representative of Dale could not have followed the debate on predatory game and wolf management in recent years. The problem is that the predators make their decisions in August, and the Directorate-General for the Environment's professional opinions will usually be available in October – yet people have to wait until Christmas or New Year's to find out what the government actually thinks about the appeals. That is the background for proposal No. 2, which we promote, and which I believe is a general requirement it is right to address to the Norwegian administration when it is perceived as being as disrespectful as it has been in recent years – when the appeal procedure is fully settled in Christmas or New Year's Weekend. In my post, I was concerned with the judgment of the Lawyers' Court. I agree with the state. The result was wrong, and therefore it is good that the verdict is appealed. It is important that the state does so, and it is important that the Council of State is up here and acknowledges that the state believes that the result is wrong. Something else would have been very eye-catching. I also believe that the judgments in that judgment are quite interesting, because they support the assessments made by the majority of the population, not only in terms of the stock of four to six, but also in terms of the interpretation of the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act § 18c. The judgments in this judgment are very interesting. Then it's clear that the nullity is linked to the concrete evaluations of the two rivals. It's fair enough, but that's what the government thinks is wrong, and they've appealed the verdict on that basis. I think that's excellent. It's going to be interesting to see the further assessment of it. I think the representative of Toning Riise had an interesting post. I agree that Stortinget will not operate any ongoing management of wolf problems. I agree with that, but the fundamental problem in this matter is, as he also pointed out, that the administration does not deal with the decisions taken by Stortinget. It happens time and time again, year after year, and it creates irritation and despair both among people and in the Biggest – naturally enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e668	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e673	It is in everyone's interest to bring the level of conflict down in these matters. The first bid is at least to have professional, biological knowledge at the bottom of all decisions and that this knowledge comes out to people. I miss that the management is clearer in the media when there are obvious errors in the postings. It concerns populations, in the case of migration, the risk to animals, etc. I mentioned some of them in my post. I know that the State's nature oversight is now, in a way, exempt from nature guidance services, and that the predatory wildlife centres will take over more, but this is obviously far too little. I would like it if the Council of State could take a little post about that, because that means very, very much. Will he consider more resources for information work in order to obtain at least the factual professional knowledge? It means a lot in terms of the level of conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e678	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e683	Let me begin by giving tribute to the Center Party for one thing: The best spookyness of the day came from the representative Myhrvold. That being said, I would like to go to proposal No. 4, which more people have challenged us on. The reason why we are not voting in favour of that proposal now is firstly that we want to make a real assessment of how any other complaint procedure could be conducted. For example: could be a composition and a secretariat that reminded us more about how the predators themselves are organized, it might be relevant to look at such a solution. If, in fact, it is not a better solution, we are forbidden to oppose it when such a proposal might be considered. When it comes to the structure of the predatory game subjects, which is covered by the same proposal, the Progress Party is in agreement with the Centre Party, but since the proposal is drawn up in a context, we are not voting in favour of it today. We want to encourage the Council of States not to make such changes in the structure of predatory wildlife subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e692	The representative Arnstad is quite right that there are many interesting precedents in the judgment of the Borgarting Lawyers, but if she thinks there is something there that suggests that the proposal of the Center Party today is within the law, it would be interesting to right it – because at least I haven't seen it. The representative Myhrvold had a blazing speech that it is not the administration and the denominators that should have the last word in the Roofing Game Administration – it must be at the political level of the Council of State. Earlier today, the representative Borch had a blazing statement that the Council of State should not consider overdrafting the administration in these matters – this is what the administration is going to decide. Here's two hands that don't know what the other one's doing. This is where the Center Party has to decide. It was mentioned by the representative Geelsvik – about the subjects and the administration – that we review the subjects once and for all. That's not correct. About 90 pst. by all the killing decisions in the denominators are maintained by the Ministry of Climate and Environment. There's a very small minority that sometimes find that there's no legal basis. That was the case with the two revira we're discussing here today. Then the representative Schlagsvold Vedum – I think it was – picked up that a user took so long to handle the complaint. I can understand that on my own. It is never an objective to spend a long time in the handling of complaints. But one of the reasons it was just that the administration, the predators, had no reason why one should take out these two revira. That's what the Storting said they have to do. So we sent the case back to them to get a reason. We didn't get that, and then there was no basis for upholding the decision. That's one of the reasons why it took some time. Of course, it's a pity, but that's the way it was. It was mentioned that we have to get out – I guess «we» means political leadership in the department – and meet people. It was called concrete demonstrations, like the bear's hose. Now I don't know if the representative was there, but at least there was political leadership in the Ministry of Climate and Environment at State Secretary Atle Hamar. It is clear that not everyone in the government and politics is in agreement, but we meet and meet people – and it should just be missing. It's important in such important things. Finally, it was the representative of Myhrvold who said that the party of progress has come out of prison, and that it reminds me more of an open settlement with reporting obligations. I would like to interpret the representative Dale more as saying that the Progress Party's assessment here today is that once a person has left prison, it might be wise not to engage in new offences immediately. I think it's a straight line to go on. Thank you for a good debate. I look forward to new predatory debates in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e707	I took the floor for a little clarification, because now on many occasions the Council of State has been on the pulpit, but he has still not commented on the two most important aspects of what this is all about: One is whether the stock target is in line with the overall policy adopted by the Stortinget. We have now confirmed that it is, as the Council of State has not commented on anything else. Nor did the council comment on the specific point I raised, on the regional plans that the state itself has approved. Politically, the Council of State is responsible. The following points were made: ‘The burden of replacing conflict-filled family groups when the stock situation permits’ shall be ‘so that the same areas do not maintain family groups over a long period of time’. So the two most important aspects of this case have not been commented by the Council of State, and it clearly shows that it is necessary and absolutely correct, all that the Workers' Party does in this case to correct and clarify what the Storting has always meant, and believes as of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e721	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Business Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e752	I would like to thank both the Business Committee and the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee for their good cooperation. It is a unanimous committee that promotes matters. What we are dealing with here is a proposition in which the government asks the Storting to consent to the decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion of the Business Confidentiality Directive on the Protection of Confidential Knowledge and Confidential Business Information against Illicit Acquisition, Use and Dissemination. Furthermore, the implementation of the Directive in Norwegian law will require legislative changes and the consent of the Storting to the approval of the EEA Committee's decision is therefore necessary under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law. The proposal for a new Act on the protection of business secrets implements the Directive in Norwegian law. For this reason, a proposition on new law – the Business Privacy Act – is also addressed here. With regard to the Business Privacy Directive, the proposition notes that the regulatory framework will have particular importance for innovative enterprises, especially smaller enterprises, which build their entire business on a few innovations or business ideas. With regard to the proposal for a new law on the protection of business secrets, it includes, inter alia: a legal definition of the term ‘business secrets’. Detailed enforcement rules are also introduced in the proposal, which provides for a clearer regulation of the penalties and measures which a holder of a business secret may invoke in the event of an intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e763	On behalf of the Minister of Justice and Immigration, I would just like to add a few words from the government. In the legislative and consent proposal on the protection of business secrets, the Government proposes that the EU Business Privacy Directive of 2016 be incorporated into the EEA Agreement and implemented in Norwegian law. This will bring the protection of business secrets in Norway to the same minimum level as in the rest of the EEA. It is important to stress that the legislative proposal involves a substantial continuation of the existing law, but will provide for a more comprehensive and clear regulation of the protection of business secrets than current legislation, which is fragmentary, overlapping and partly contradictory. One example is that both Section 28 of the Marketing Act and Section 207 of the Criminal Act prohibit the unlawful use of business secrets acquired in connection with a service, trust or business relationship. While a significant breach of the Marketing Act § 28 has a penalty framework in prison for up to six months, the Penal Code operates § 207 with an upper penalty framework in prison for two years for the same act. The proposal will also bring the legislation on the protection of business secrets closer to that of the related intellectual property rights. In particular, the legislative proposal provides a detailed presentation of the enforcement means available to a business secret holder through intervention. It is the government's intention that the proposal will make the regulatory framework easier for users, especially smaller companies that build their entire business on a few innovations or business ideas. Significant parts of the legal regulation of business secrets are created by courts, so it is also less accessible to users. This applies, inter alia, to: the definition of what constitutes a business secret, which is not explicitly stated in current legislation. I am pleased that the Economic and Social Committee has not objected to the proposal, which was well received at the hearing in due course, and that the Committee shares the view that the proposal should not restrict the right of freedom of expression or the right of the press to have access to what is in force under today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e774	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e791	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e800	Since Norway is so small and the world so big, is there any point in making a difference at all? It is a joint committee that has stated that the answer to that should be yes, and that is, of course, safe. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank you for your attention. St. 27 for 2018-2019, on the role and interests of Norway in multilateral cooperation. It came just when we needed it. The liberal, rule-driven world order that has served us well since World War II is on a staggering basis. The balance of power in the world has changed, trade interests and contradictions between China and the United States that did not exist when the system on which we base our open economy was created, characterizes the global world order. International agreements are abandoned by countries that previously presented them. The climate issue is a very good example of problems that were not conscious when the systems we have to solve common problems were rigged. Moreover, assistance does not function in the same way as before, neither in terms of achievement of objectives, nor as a currency for political influence. The message points to six main challenges for the multinational system today. This is the abbreviation of the committee, but I want to repeat them here to have a background for what it's really about. The power conditions in the world are changing. Major countries solve several problems bilaterally rather than multilaterally. Liberal values, norms and rights are under pressure. There is an increased inequality within countries and a distrust of globalisation. There is a lack of representativeness and efficiency. The world has problems that need to be resolved jointly, but the multilateral system is not rigged to solve. The message's review of the situation description and challenges is very good, but it's not complementary, and it will never be. The Committee shares the global picture with the government, but does not have the ability to comment on everything here or in the setting. Fortunately, this is the beginning of a broader foreign policy debate, and I will come back to that. We have guided our foreign policy according to what highlights a rule-driven and predictable world order based on our values, because it benefits us. Because if you're not so busy with the rest of the world, you can be concerned about how you feel. Our well-being, security and international influence are created and dependent on the multinational system. Our open economy depends on international trade cooperation and regulation management. Promoting international law, human rights, development and stability is at the heart of Norwegian foreign policy because our role in the world, our economy and our security rests on these pillars. Therefore, it is essential for Norway to secure the future of the multinational system. Today, tone-setting countries and emerging powers are using the multilateral system to fill it with new content, and the established values on which the system is based are multiple positions in opposition. Norwegian interests and respect for human rights are challenged through the multilateral system when it is used to legitimise abuse of power. Therefore, Norway must work to maintain its function and legitimacy. So it's not enough just to fight for their existence, you have to fight for their content as well. As I said, we agree on a lot, but there are two different majority I want to use to support the fact that we need a broader debate on foreign policy in this Chamber. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, indicates that the notification brings forward Norwegian candidatures, Presidency and Board of Directors as an instrument of influence by Norway. The majority agree to this and will use the opportunity to state that there is an overall increase in the number of Norwegian candidates to the United Nations Security Council, providing a special opportunity to support the United Nations, international law and the rest of the multilateral system, while allowing better promotion of Norwegian interests. The majority believe that Norway should and can propose solutions and influence the other members of a forum on which we rely better and more transparently. There is an overall committee that joins the line of being active on the reform front within the WTO, the Council of Europe, NATO and the UN. In order to defend and maintain, we need to ensure that the organisations function properly. But then it is the majority who point out that the notification states that the United Nations Security Council and its working methods need reform. The Committee believes that the solution to the problems of the trade conflict between the United States and China is in the process of strengthening and reforming the WTO, not weakening the organisation. The majority of the Committee, all other than the member of the SV, considers that cooperation between individual countries is not problematic. For example, Norway should and should continue to cooperate well bilaterally with the United States, while being ally in NATO. This gives no contradiction, writes the majority of the comments. Another majority again, all except the members of the Progress Party, believe that bilateralism disguised as multilateralism is an increasing problem. The fact that a structure is a burden-sharing community but is in fact controlled by only one party weakens the confidence of the established multilateral system. An example of this is the Belt and Road Initiative, China's Silk Road Initiative, a series of bilateral agreements in which China enjoys great control and economic power. This majority believes that the objectives of the liberal world order have been and must continue to be more democracy, transparency, accountability and stability. The international dialogue, especially in countries where foreign policy is increasingly domestic policy, creates a number of impressions that multilateralism is a contrast to national policy challenges or values. On the contrary, this majority believes that the challenges facing individual countries through the multinational system, but shared by several, can be solved. There are just the different majority here that form the basis for one of the proposals. For what is a Norwegian interest? It has been defined in Message. St. 18 for 2008-2009. It is defined as value-based and not static. It is defined as security, commitment, economics, energy, climate and environment, international organisation, strategic and operational challenges. There is an overall committee which considers that there is a need for an up-to-date definition and description of Norwegian interests and how they should be understood. It may be that they should be understood in exactly the same way as today, but we need to take that discussion. When countries do not support the multilateral system, it weakens the confidence of its citizens. The problem comes when people experience that they have problems that the systems are unable to solve. The international dialogue, especially in countries where foreign policy is about the country itself, creates the impression that it is a contradiction. Then the result can be an increased desire for protectionism. There is an overall committee that shares the description in the Communication that much of the dissatisfaction with the effects of globalisation may be due to a lack of or poor distribution policies in countries. That's a very good starting point for further discussion. Populist domestic flows also weaken the ability of governments to compromise, which multilateral agreements in several cases require. International Community solutions are produced as a force for national states. On our own continent, several countries experience limitations in human rights and in democratic structures. When politicians in individual countries fail, the big community must be there and stand up. In short, it can be summed up that we have to fight for the agreements and cooperation we have. We can look for new ones to solve new problems, but we have to fight again, because nothing is won forever. In the Communication, the Government announced a review of the use of funds as a channel for Norwegian assistance, with the aim of identifying good and efficient fund mechanisms. The changed situation in the aid structure may have created a need for a similar review of the entire Norwegian aid and contribution facility, for the world is changing in this field as well. Growth in the number of private actors makes assistance relatively less important over time. The reduction in core contributions and the increase in voluntary and earmarked contributions make multilateral organisations less of a carrier of universal standards or feel bound to them. The impact of Norwegian support to the UN, in addition to political realities, has been an opportunity to convert economic capital into political capital and the possibility of influence. The majority believe that developments towards less core support and more project-oriented assistance internationally make financial contributions more difficult to translate into direct influence than before. That's why we need a new discussion. Should we increase support for organisations that contribute to regulatory development? Should we reverse today's contribution to multilateral organisations? Should we change the concentration of aid to fewer countries to increase the results, or use assistance to build partnerships in Asia, Africa and Latin America? Should Norwegian assistance be more channelled into thematic areas where we have specific opportunities to contribute, such as institution building, the establishment of democratic control functions and the establishment of fair tax systems? The majority believe these are questions that require up-to-date discussions and answers in the light of the situation described in the notification. We need a full review of Norwegian aid. I will now explain why the Workers' Party has not taken note of the majority that indicates that Norwegian support for multilateral aid organisations must be conditional on their actual contribution to economic development. It's because we want a complete review of all the effects. Now I'm also going to go quickly into three areas where the Workers' Party is part of the minority. One is that we believe Norway must be able to rely on it. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party refer to the ‘Veival’ message, where our candidacy for the OSCE Presidency was lifted. It was a unanimous foreign and defence committee that joined it, but shortly before the formal decision was taken, the government announced that it was still not a candidate or would assume the presidency in 2020. Both our international partners, the Storting and the public must be able to expect that a government has carried out thorough assessments when one goes far beyond the news of Norway's taking responsibility and taking on a Presidency. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV also refer to the International Convention on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture. These members believe that Norway should strengthen its representation in such negotiations. The third is that the same members believe that the relationship between assistance and lending needs to be discussed as part of the government's announced review of the use of funds. Then the same members refer to the notification’s claim that Norway is not a heavy enough player to influence the relationship between the major acts and multilateral cooperation. These members believe that we have no choice but to try. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV, propose Decision I: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with an up-to-date definition of the concept of ‘Norwegian interests’ in foreign policy’. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV: ‘The government is asking for an appropriate review of the impact of Norwegian development and assistance policies on the changing global landscape, including as an influence tool in multilateral organisations and in relation to private investment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e889	The representative Jette F. Christensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e894	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent cooperation within the Committee on the Communication and for a very conscientious and real presentation of both majority views and some minority views in today's vote. It is true that, when you get things a little distance away from the debate, you see that perhaps on some points you could – if it was about doing – cooperate further to get common positions, and I still think we should be glad that there is broad support for the broad lines of Norwegian foreign policy. And then we can see that there's a lot of different emphasis on where we're going to go on, and maybe a little bit different about the economic and international trends. We agree with the main issues raised in the Communication, which should make Norway constantly update and evaluate its own interests in a larger international image. I just mention – for the sake of coherence – what we have pointed out, and as the message points out, the conditions of power in the world are changing. Larger countries solve more problems bilaterally rather than multilaterally. Liberal values, norms and rights are under pressure. Increased inequality within countries and mistrust of globalisation – to varying degrees, correctly – is a phenomenon. At the same time, there is a lack of representativeness and effectiveness. And finally, we have the climate issue, as a reminder that there is an urgent need to find common solutions across borders. When there are questions about how we address this, I still have to ask the question from my point of view: How long can Norway fail to address its relationship with the EU? We are economic members of the internal market, but we still see that the form of multilateralism that we otherwise prize at a very superior level meets, we should say, scepticism and direct political opposition, also in this Chamber. Where the EU develops an energy policy in which we establish cross-border cables that ensure energy supply in Europe, we are talking about practical cooperation that faces problems in this room. I've been thinking that maybe it's not so full-toning, this tribute to the international and multilateral community. Those who want to convince themselves about this can take a closer look at the joint comment from the Centre Party and SV. Now such particular remarks tend to disappear, but I do think that those who could worry about how another government would approach these questions should definitely look at the SV and the Central Party's common comments. The members of the Committee of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left ‘believe that the ‘liberal world order’ cannot be referred to as a unified set of political ideas’. They further believe that it represents a «economic liberalism which in development policy focuses on privatisation, free trade and cuts in public expenditure. In particular, through the structural adjustment programmes introduced by the Bretton Woods institutions to developing countries in the 80s and 90s in the wake of the debt crisis, the multilateral organisations put enormous pressure on developing countries to privatise important public goods, open their markets, export-oriented industries, and also to reduce welfare services through public spending cuts. These members consider it a paradox that one of the most important efforts in Norwegian aid in the last decade is precisely Tax on Development, a targeted policy to build tax bases in developing countries which in turn can contribute to the development of well-being, infrastructure, etc., can be seen as a contradiction to the policy pursued in the previous decades.’» I am not going to refer any more here, but it is clear that it is precisely the Bretton Woods institutions, the IMF and the World Bank, which will then be the cause of the world's greedy situation. But that's not what these countries themselves see. These countries too, despite different governance traditions, have become part of the international trade in goods and part of the international economy that has raised hundreds of millions from poverty. Then they've got another problem, and that's of course how the distribution of income takes place within the country, but it's primarily a national political responsibility. We can see that even in these crises that we have called these temporary setbacks in the world economy, the world economy has been growing and thus has also led to a wealth increase that has changed the living conditions of an incredible number of people on our planet. At the same time, there are the same parties, SV and the Central Party, which are otherwise great heroes in the field of climate policy, which will also mark the distance from the energy solutions that Norway can contribute to through a liberalised energy market. They're against the concrete solutions, and at the same time they're going to implement some kind of protectionism in Norwegian, even though our economy depends on us getting our goods set aside in an open world economy. Then you can also ask: why have they forgotten all of Eastern Europe, the development of former Eastern Europe? It ranged from the planned economy and contributed to the first to immediate closure of the incredibly polluting industry in former East Germany, but also in the other less developed industrialized countries. This means that there is a better basis in Europe for making the further cuts to be made and on which the EU also cooperates. So I'm optimistic, especially about the regional regulation and the formation of justice that we have in our own continent. I may not be so optimistic about the ability of the United Nations system to reform itself, become more effective and have a representativeness that increases legitimacy among the Member States. We see how the multilateral community also opens up countries that have no desire whatsoever to promote economic liberalism, freedom of thought or democracy. It can be seen how strongly structurally conservative Arab countries have in recent years populated UN human rights organisations to block them from real development work. So there's a lot of Norway that has to deal with as an active actor in the United Nations system. My recipe is not that Norway should stand out, but on the contrary be active on all the fronts and in all the organisations that Norway offers both membership and, where appropriate, leading and leading positions, because we have something to contribute in terms of both our situation, our interests and not least our tradition of cooperation and democracy, which we are together about here in the Nordic region. Several of these things are interesting, and we can probably come back to them in the debate. And despite the critical remarks to a few of our particularly protective home parties, I have to say that I am pleased that there is a broad majority in this case for the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e920	Let me first point out that I record that there is no one on my left here, who usually has a great interest in writing a lot about foreign policy in their media, but they are not so much concerned about Norway's politicians and what they should think about this matter. I think that's a little bit interesting. I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a very good job and including work. I think it's been very important. My message will probably be a little in contrast to the message of the previous representative, but you will hear it. In some cases, Norwegian policies are characterised by widespread swaths. Formulaions are so round, meaningless, and harmless that the whole world can give its homage. The wording below, which is taken from the message we are dealing with today, is one such example: ‘A key objective of Norwegian foreign policy in the coming years is therefore to support committed international cooperation and the multilateral system, so that we can strengthen our ability to address common challenges and take care of Norwegian and global interests.’ In other words, a central goal is absolute everything. Nothing is left out, and there is no priority either. Everything is equally important. At the same time, the government says that it also has more objectives, and whether these are central is not mentioned. The government takes it for granted that the world will be a better place if we all deal with international institutions that give undemocratic and totalitarian countries influence. It's a statement, a statement that's not based on empirical. It is in fact an unsubstantiated claim that an organisation such as the United Nations creates greater understanding between people and less dissatisfaction in the world. It has not been given that leaders or envoys to the UN who do not have a legitimate mandate from their own people create a more peaceful world. The celebrations of international brotherhood and dialogue sound hollow and without real content when state leaders legitimize their often hateful message by using the UN pulpit, while the world's democratic leaders do not object. What we know, however, is that a limitless belief in globalism leads to large migration flows from the south to the north – often as an indirect consequence of understanding established in the UN, and sometimes based on UN decisions where the intention is to open up to migration. Such understanding or decision is not based on national democratic decisions — it is based on an ideologically guided belief in a multicultural international cremation across all borders. Nor is it legitimate, and that is why people in Europe are increasingly sinister, and politicians are alienating themselves. It's time for politicians in Europe to get their eyes up on what they're into. The party of progress is a warm supporter of a liberal world order. However, a liberal world order is completely dependent on national freedom of action. Without national freedom of action, democracy is an illusion. At the same time, we do not believe that the world will be a better place if corrupt leaders are given the opportunity to use international arenas to teach democratic nations, even if representatives of undemocratic countries are given the opportunity to abuse such arenas to defend their totalitarian regimes, where the consequences often lead to the movement of large populations from the south to well-functioning and culturally very different countries in the north. The support of the Progress Party to international organisations is not unconditional. Unlike the majority in this Chamber, we assume that the members are legitimate representatives of their countries and that the organisations base their activities on liberal principles. The majority premise that Norwegian foreign policy should be based on support and active participation in international organisations. However, the defence of a liberal world order does not require such unconditional support. It does not contribute to a liberal world order if, at the same time, countries that actively oppose freedom of expression are recognised. A liberal world order does not contribute to dialogue with countries that obviously do not accept equality or equality between women and men. We do not contribute to a liberal world order if we recognise countries that do not accept political pluralism or religious freedom. Norway is the world's greatest contributor to the multilateral system. Nearly 4000 kroner per Norwegian spends every year on this. This is for many people in Norway very much money, although it may be explained by other circumstances. But for the most people, and for the most people, for the most part, this is $4,000, what they have to live for every month. So it's a cross-estimate that many out there are poor people, but we're going to give $4,000 per Northman to this system, which obviously doesn't work. Of course, these 4,000 dollars open doors — even very undemocratic doors. This is, of course, a use of money that comes with very well when the government's ambitions are to get a place in the UN Security Council. When this comes in addition to an extensive travel activity, naturally our candidacy is strong. The government's ambition is otherwise very unwise and will be controversial to all bilateral relations with like-minded Norway is totally dependent on it. The Progress Party defends the liberal world order when it is actually practiced liberally. We are convinced that trade between countries on equal terms will benefit everyone. We believe that such trade will generate economic growth and development. However, the prerequisites and conditions for such trade must be based on national self-determination. That should of course be the case, but all Norwegian foreign policy should be based on what benefits Norway. Foreign policy must therefore be based on popular anchoring. Norway must therefore assume that Norwegian interests are best served in a liberal world order, anchored in international law and the multilateral system. Foreign policy must be based on realism, how the world actually is, and not on idealism, how we should want it to be. However, the ambition to observe this world order is increasingly challenging and beyond Norway’s control. It is therefore not realistic, or desirable, that Norway should influence the global trends beyond the size of the country, but that we should instead be with our allies. We have to maneuver for a new time and think more steps forward and not lean back on the existing. It might be nice to lean back on the existing, and there's probably a lot of Northmen out there representing both hist and here, who are very happy that we're actually doing it. Norway’s commitment must primarily take care of Norwegian interests, and it should preferably take place in our neighbourhoods and be in line with our alliance obligations. It implies that our primary task is to ensure the security and well-being of Norwegian society and its citizens. We must give priority to our international commitment. Ambitions about broad participation in organisations, forums, peace initiatives and operations are not necessarily in Norway’s interest — despite the fact that many Nordics can find such involvement attractive. However, it does not seem that this is an ambition neither the government nor the socialists in different denominations in this hall share. For most, everything is international involvement of the good, and ultimately everything is in Norway's interest. Such ambition is meaningless and aimless, despite the fact that it gives us recognition and status. As mentioned at the outset, as the rapporteur said, it is very unclear what the government means by ‘Norwegian interests’, and it is very exciting to hear the Minister of Foreign Affairs perhaps talk a little about this and what they think is not Norway’s interests, because that is perhaps the easiest thing to say. But we also want to have it in writing, and that is why we support the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and the SV. I can't stop mentioning some of the case work that this case has done, and the one since today's Business wrote, where a boiled soup on a nail and made claims that the Progress Party was not happy in NATO and did not want to have the EEA Agreement and some other things. Now it came on the basis that someone had a leak within our committee. First of all, I find it totally unacceptable, but my point here is first and foremost to talk to DN's journalists, and it's Marie Melgård, Tore Gjerstad and Gard Oterholm, who, based on lies and frenzy and false information, asked for a meeting with me. We had a 40-minute interview on this message, and despite going through the views of the Progress Party, they had only one goal – without saying it – of creating it side by side with lies that they produced in today's Business. I wanted to go to PFU with this case, but I don't want to spend time on it, so I've decided that these three journalists I'm going to cut out and have no conversations with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e965	I would first like to thank the President-in-Office for a good and tidy job in this matter, both with committee management and in today's debate. International work is particularly important for Norway. Here I'm probably different from the previous speaker, and the Center Party is different from the Progress Party. As a small nation, we depend on a rule-based world order. We depend on trade with other countries, our security builds on an alliance with other countries, and our future depends on cooperation with the nations around us. It is of particular importance, therefore, that Norway is a driving force for good international cooperation to continue over the coming years. Unfortunately, we are witnessing a negative change in multilateral forums. The liberal world order has a set of rules and values, such as individual rights and freedoms, democracy and legal certainty. This is now under pressure. On the one hand, there is a consequence that leading countries, especially the United States, place less emphasis on multilateral cooperation than before. On the other hand, there is evidence that emerging powers such as China and Russia are filling international cooperation with new content, and one often sees that this new content is not in line with the values that have the basis for multilateral cooperation emerging after the Second World War. Dialogue, compromise and cooperation are less used to solve many of the challenges facing the world today. This is a paradox, because many of the challenges we face cannot be solved by any state alone. In meeting climate change, good international cooperation will be decisive. It is crucial that states work together to achieve the sustainability targets by 2030. The question is what Norway should do. What are our forces, and how shall we manoeuvre in this new landscape? Norway is a small country, but it's certainly not synonymous that we have a weak voice internationally. On the contrary, we have high integrity, we have no colonial history, and we have such good intentions to influence the direction of multilateral cooperation. We can demonstrate the experience and results of international political efforts, diplomatic contributions and partnerships. These are the strengths and experiences we have to take advantage of, and we have to take advantage of our space of action. Norway is in a special position in multilateral forums today because we are not an EU member. This gives us the opportunity to express our own views, including on behalf of the Nordic countries, while the other Nordic countries must express their views through the EU and thus easily lose the individual and Nordic votes in the multilateral forums. This puts us in a unique position – we have the possibility to have a bridge builder and broker role in locked-up negotiation situations, which Norway could not have had in the same way as an EU member. What content we want to fill international cooperation with in the coming years is an important foreign policy debate. Wherever we have good competence, and what is important for Norway to focus on, should be leading issues in that debate. There is a broad political agreement on the vast majority of foreign policy priorities in Norway. That's good, because we're a small country and we don't need big and heavy internal debates about it. Nevertheless, there is different emphasis on different areas. The central party wants a clear prioritisation of sustainable food systems in Norway’s multilateral development policy. Food shortages and crop failures are increasingly the cause of instability, conflict and migration. It will be reinforced through climate change that we are all witnessing. The centre party likes to praise the government's focus on sustainable food systems through food, people and the environment, the action plan for sustainable food systems that was presented in June 2019. But the bet is still for the message – the 100 million prize. kr is not in the vicinity of being enough to follow up the plan if any serious matter. Mathematical security is essential for us to be able to achieve the sustainability targets. Without a specific effort to achieve BEMPs 1 and 2, the abolition of waste and poverty, it will not be possible to achieve the other objectives. The central part of my agriculture should be mentioned separately, and the areas highlighted in the Action Plan for Sustainable Food Systems should be highlighted in the list of Norway's commitments and priorities in multilateral cooperation. The centre party would point out that Norway’s specific policies to help strengthen the development of climate-friendly agriculture by focusing on genetic resources for food and agriculture are large. In the face of rapid climate change, associated plant diseases and other environmental factors, it is more important than ever to have access to resilient plant varieties and further processing. Norway has, as the message shows, made a particular global effort to create and operate the global squab on Svalbard. Norway also has our bridge builders for the International Convention on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, while providing extensive support for multilateral cooperation in this field, and we have a strong research environment. The centre part will therefore claim that Norway has a special advantage in this area. Unfortunately, we note that one is a witness to a weakening of multilateral cooperation in this area. During the eighth meeting of the Parties to the International Convention on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, it was impossible to agree to strengthen the multilateral system of access to genetic resources and to distribute good from the use of these resources. Me mein Norway should strengthen its representation in such negotiations. It is also necessary to strengthen the preparation of the negotiations with the exploitation of the comprehensive Norwegian competence, so that good multilateral solutions can be provided more effectively. This should be a strategic priority for Norway in multilateral forums, and it is strange that the government will not support the Centre Party in this, not least given its commitment to the Christian People's Party in this area. The representative Tetzschner used most of his post to criticise SV and the Center Party rather than to promote and talk about his own policy. The representatives who listen to the first case today, the debate on the wolf, could right that the same was the case there – the right spent a lot of time on criticism of the second party, and especially the centre party, rather than talking about its own policy. One might wonder if this is the new strategy of the Right – at least promoting its own ideas and ideas and finding something to criticize the Center Party for. Internationally, the Center Party is not alone in being critical of the IMF and the World Bank and demanding them in the 1980s and 1990s. This does not mean that one necessarily is critical of the same institutions' work today. The centre party has changed its attitude towards the institutions in relation to our opposition and strong criticism in the Stortinget and in all other forums where we came up, against the Bretton Woods institutions and the demands that were made in the 1980s and 1990s. I think that the historical curve inside this is to keep the wide image. The centre party believes that this has also contributed to a development that could be more positive than unfortunately is today. Using a lot of speaking time on the historic slope seemed to be something that was set up instead of raising what is the big challenges and that the message outlines – I would say – in a good way. Neither has the Senterpartiet come with any criticism today, but we have raised an area that we believe the government and Norway should be even clearer. We have a high level of competence, particularly in food security, and not least in ensuring access to genetic material that can enable poor countries to produce more and better food. The message of multilateral cooperation is a message without major confrontations between the party, but its content is very important to our country. As a small country, we depend on international driving rules to be respected by the major powers as well, and Norway must work hard in all forums to ensure that it becomes the fasit of the international community for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1001	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work and, to the extent that the government also provides us with a message that gives us an opportunity to discuss some developments that we should have discussed more in Stortinget. SV are hot defenders of multilateral international cooperation. We are proud of the role Norway plays in aid and international solidarity. We are committed to Norway playing a role, not least in the UN's work on security around the world, and we need more multilateral cooperation to meet the climate crisis. This message describes a world in which the kind of cooperation in many areas is in retreat, while the major act-rivalization and the isolation of the major acts is increasing. I think it is striking how little we discuss it, and how ritually it has become that most of the parties in this room are always the most concerned about stressing the degree of consensus in Norwegian foreign policy, while initiatives that could make us better prepared to meet a world of rapid change are voted down – for example. SV's proposal to set up a new Defence Commission. We have used some space in the setting of what we believe is some weaknesses in the analysis. I would really like to thank the representative Tetzschner for spending so much of his speaking time reading out our excellent comment. I don't have to repeat everything myself. But it's also an example of the same thing, because this message is based on the concept of the "liberal world order" and in a way respects the liberal world order we've had in the last decades. But it is without really asking questions about what has made us end up in a situation where this world order is so vulnerable, and where multilateral cooperation seems to be on the defensive. What has been the weaknesses of this world order that have brought us into the world we are today? You have to be interested in asking yourself – unless you choose the ostrich method and stick your head in the sand – and that's exactly what we're doing in that remark. We point out that a major reason for instability, lack of trust and cohesion in a number of societies around the world is the rapidly increasing economic inequality, because so much of globalisation has taken place on the premises of the economic elites, while ordinary people in many countries have lost. That's why you can see that inequalities are increasing inland, almost worldwide. Unfortunately, many of the multilateral organisations have played an important role in this. The Bretton Woods institutions in the 1980s have been mentioned, but also the advice and guidance provided by organisations such as the WTO, the EU and the OECD for a long time. That is why we point out that we are fundamentally in favour of the world's progress towards stronger international cooperation and political democratisation, but also negative to the economic liberalism that has been the other side of this world order. We cannot make this a simple yes or no to all multilateral cooperation. We need to assess the political content of different types of cooperation. Our simple starting point is that we want as much multilateral and international cooperation as possible, but if it involves different forms of inducing economic right-wing policy, we are, of course, against it. That is why an internationalist party like SV is still opposed to Norwegian EU membership, which would impose more economic right-wing policy on us. It is also important to see – in the same way that the representative of Navarsete was involved – that we are outside some kind of cooperation, for example. that we are not a member of the EU, can give us a stronger independent voice in other types of international cooperation. In climate negotiations and within the UN system, Norway has a voice that we can use to promote other messages and values than those from the EU side, and it has often proved to be very valuable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1018	Multilateral cooperation is one of the most important things we have in Norwegian foreign policy, from many points of view. As a new member of the committee, I have had to think through this and will therefore have a version on it. Multilateral cooperation is economically crucial for the well-being of Norway. It ensures our market access, exports of oil, fish and other goods, our shipping services, and not least the huge investments and money placements handled abroad by the State pension fund on behalf of the population. The Code of the World Trade Organisation and the EEA Agreement are important and suitable for Norway. Security policy is very important multilateral cooperation. As a small state with large resources, Norway has found a secure anchoring over more than 60 years in the North Atlantic Defence Alliance. In recent years, the security of ours and others has been threatened by international terrorism. This requires more than before broader cooperation, including: through the UN. All these organisations and Norway's relations with them need to be updated and adjusted, and Norway needs to contribute to and not withdraw from it. Nature and climate must be protected. Multilateral cooperation has been important for many decades to combat transboundary poisoning of sea and air. Now the climate challenges are a threat to the planet's future. That requires international cooperation to solve that problem, and we have to be able to commit ourselves to that. The same applies – and we see that now – to cross-border health threats. Now we have the coronary virus. The management of such epidemics and pandemics requires global cooperation. We have also seen it in the last period, not least in terms of migration and the importance of a Schengen regime – yes, it can be improved, but we must have it. We also see, given that we can expect refugee flows in the future, not least how important it is to have targeted assistance towards a changing world. Norway has strong self-interests in a well-functioning multilateral cooperation. As a small nation, it is therefore important to value an international legal order that obliges everyone. International law may limit the risk of small countries becoming victims of major acts. But this isn't just about self-interest. What is at stake are fundamental values for the world society and humanity. Norwegian society is based on values, on the value of the individual human being, freedom, human rights, the rule of law and democracy. Similarly, we need to participate in international cooperation to build these values into more global schemes. It's important that we are present at those arenas where it happens, and that we have a voice that is being listened to. A lot has been opened up in these multilateral organisations in the post-war period, not least through the UN and other forums, and here we are going to contribute further to improving the human life situation. There's a lot left of it, and the sustainability targets give us a clear direction. Now we see a trend towards dangerous setbacks. The rule of law is under pressure. Authoritarian regimes threaten democracies. Armour control agreements are confusing. This must concern us, but it should inspire us to participate in international law and multilateral governance systems in order to promote Norway's interests and values in these areas. We've never been passive spectators, but we're going to be initiators and participants. We have to build alliances with others. In this work, there is no big enough alone, but the world can master these problems through committed international cooperation. It is a task worth fighting for, and it wants the Christian People's Party to contribute to Norway. So I finally allow myself a little view from Rogaland when I've ended up in this committee with this interesting issue. Yes, I'm familiar with both commerce and business, how dependent we are on this. I'm familiar with it, not least in innovation, getting new ideas and getting that contact with the outside world. I am also thinking about the network we have in Rogaland in all of these areas, not least in the area of munitions, aid and what is related to human rights. I'm also particularly pleased that this is going on in terms of cultural exchange, so that we better understand each other when we're going to interact with others. The world is changing, as it's said, and then we're going to be able to contribute our values in a good way. Then it's like we in the Christian People's Party are also very critical, and in Rogaland we're critical, but that's for quality assurance what we're doing. But one thing must be absolutely certain: although we are critical, we will go into the situation in order to contribute and improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1037	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur and the Committee for a good job and that we can have this debate today – and not least for the presentation of the main content of the message in a way that means that I do not have to take it all. Today's situation is challenging for Norway because we have built our well-being and taken a lot of our international influence from the multilateral system. Norway’s multilateral work is the extension of our national priorities, and international commitments are crucial for Norwegian interests in many areas. In the last six months, we have been constantly confirmed that this cooperation on which we have built our security, economics and well-being is changing. Three specific examples: in August of this year, the INF Agreement was terminated, which prohibited the deployment of land-based medium-range rockets in Europe. With that, we have lost an agreement that was important for Europe's security. In December, the World Trade Organisation’s appeal body was put out of action. With it there is an important mechanism for resolving trade disputes in line with common international driving rules blocked. And by the end of January, the United Kingdom came out of the EU. These are three events with very different explanations, but all are an expression of a situation in which international cooperation arrangements we have long been able to take for granted are moving. The fixed points we've navigated to are moving. For all of them, they are also of great importance to Norway. These are just three examples of a development the government has wanted to discuss with the Storting through this message, and not least to be able to contribute to a good public discussion around. A development that is characterized by less stability, increased unforeseeability and pressure against international cooperation and the norms on which it is based is something I have noticed through the message work that many people are concerned about. There is greater concern than before about what is happening in the world and how it is going to affect Norway. The pressure comes from several sides: from emerging powers that take up more space than before and fill the cooperation with new content, and from countries that have carried much of the cooperation since World War II but are now retreating. Increasing major activisation – and I would like to stress: a deep, strategic rivalry – has implications for international cooperation, and it particularly affects the space for action of small and medium-sized countries. The situation is challenging for Norway because multilateral cooperation is essential in order to meet society’s needs in a wide range of areas, not least in terms of security and welfare. I have been concerned that we should base a sober and real policy analysis on the challenges we face. The message has been based on what the world actually looks like – not what we would like it to look like. It also tells us that we actually have to make choices, and in very many cases between bad alternatives. However, it is not an option for a country like Norway not to make a choice or to leave reality. Today's situation requires that we give priority to where we engage. We don't have the opportunity or the capacity to participate everywhere, and we don't have the same priority. We will therefore give priority to resources in initiatives and areas where Norway has specific prerequisites for contributing, where it is realistic that we can succeed in the effort, and where the initiative directly or indirectly promotes our national and global interests. As the Committee has seen – and I am very happy to see that there is full support for the points in the message about how we should work – there are some main priorities that are important to us. One is to defend our space for foreign policy action. Our ability to engage in strategic cooperation and alliances has always been crucial to what space of foreign policy action we have. It's still going to be. We are going to be a driving force for reforms that make institutions more efficient and more representative, and I am glad that the Committee also points very clearly to that in its comments. We are going to seek an even closer cooperation with like-minded countries in Europe, but we also need to cooperate more in matters of common interest with countries with which we do not agree. Building new and broad alliances is an essential part of ensuring our space for foreign policy action. In a time of increasing geopolitical instability, we also need to take our share of responsibility. It is not always pleasant, but I can promise the Committee that for Norway, as for any other country, it is not an alternative to not dealing with either major activisation, increasing unforeseeableness or increasing complexity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1062	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1068	I'm going to ask the Foreign Minister something because I'm actually wondering something. That's not always how you use these questions in this room. It's refreshing. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his statement that we should use the space for action more. When you read the message, you get the impression that we're going to do more places, and that's good – it's necessary. The communication also points out that those working, both outdoors and at home, should work in a slightly different way — gain more knowledge, both within the multilateral system and at country level. The committee travels a lot, and I don't have the impression that those who are at the embassies have little to do. It doesn't apply here at home either. I wonder whether the foreign minister can say anything about – since the message has no budgetary implications – those who are already there will work more or work less on other things. How is this going to be solved?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1077	It's a perfectly correct observation that Jette F. Christensen has made on how our employees work in the embassies. It is also one of the reasons why we are now embarking on a major reform process towards 2025, precisely because we need to spend time and resources adapting the EEAS to the challenges we see coming. We are not alone in doing that – there are many others who do. It's a little bit about what we spend resources on, how we do it, how we can cooperate more closely with like-minded countries to solve common problems, which we, among other things, do. do with several Nordic countries around the world, e.g. with common embassies, common visa management, etc. But it is also important to recognise clearly where the interests that are most important to us to defend are, and where we can achieve the greatest benefit from working, and in what way we can achieve the greatest benefit from working. This is a pretty complicated work, and it's a work that's never done, but it's important for us to make the foreign service forward now that the world is changing so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1082	I almost don't know where to start asking questions. In his speech, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that we should have alliances with both like-minded countries and those who are not quite as like-minded. There should be broad alliances, it was said. If we remember a little bit in time, we boycotted the apartheid regime in South Africa. It had a lot of excitement in the Norwegian people, but we don't do it anymore. We cooperate with countries in the Arab world that violate human rights every day, which makes a difference between women and men, that they do not have equivalency and freedom of expression. No one's saying the same thing about it. There we're just going to continue to have dialogue, we're going to cooperate and support. Why are we not as principled with regard to the countries as it is, in a thorough manner, that human rights are being violated every day? Why is dialogue the only option for these countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1087	I think it is important to base what has been the long line in Norwegian foreign policy on a permanent basis, and which I feel the Committee is fully in favour of still being so, and that is that Norway should engage with other countries. It has rarely been a successful recipe or strategy for any country — nor for Norway — to isolate itself from important discussions or not to engage in dialogue with countries with which we deeply disagree. An important example of this is my visit to Saudi Arabia last week, where most of the time in the meetings agreed to discuss human rights and present our very clear criticism of the human rights violations in Saudi Arabia, in particular regarding civil and political rights. At the same time, there is no doubt that Saudi Arabia is an important country in the region, both in order to deal with the issue of a possible peace agreement between Israelis and Palestinians, but also because Saudi Arabia is currently chairing the G20. Not having a dialogue with Saudi Arabia on other issues, as well as not presenting the human rights critique, would be a bad strategy for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1092	That answer doesn't mean anything. It is said that it is a good idea to cooperate with countries that violate human rights every day and put their women in prison. I don't know if anything has improved in Saudi Arabia in the last 10-20 years – I doubt it. That Saudi Arabia has great influence in the world is something quite different. That they have also been given the chairmanship of the organisation you mentioned, there is no reason why we should be less principleal. What is really the fundamental difference between the apartheid regime in South Africa and the regime in Saudi Arabia, which the Foreign Minister even visits to talk to and have a dialogue on the human rights situation with, which has not improved over the years, and which certainly does not get better tomorrow either, no matter how much bit of little Norway deals with Saudi Arabia. The same applies to a number of other countries. Perhaps it is time for Norway to realize its size and not to try to play world police everywhere and to support the principle, namely that we are not dealing with countries that violate human rights as thoroughly as for example. Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1099	The President must ask the representative Tybring-Gjedde to let the speech go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1104	It's almost as I wonder why the representative Tybring-Gjedde chose to ask a question because the answer doesn't mean anything, as he said. There have been major changes in Saudi Arabia only in the last few years. For example, the protection system for women has now been abolished, but at the same time there has been a tightening of civil and political rights. My message was that the development of Saudi Arabia is twofold. When you do foreign policy and are in government, you don't have the luxury of choosing not to deal with land. We need to deal with countries, including those countries with which we strongly disagree, and we need to find ways to work together on common challenges that no country can solve alone. And if there's one development that we see very clearly, and that's well described in the message, it's that more and more of the challenges we're facing are of such a nature that we can't solve them alone. This could include climate challenges, migration and cross-border crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1113	In a debate under the direction of the Agenda at the Kulturhuset here in Oslo earlier this winter, the Minister of Development said that when it comes to food security and sustainable food systems, he was willing to invest heavily and to cooperate across the political spectrum. In the setting of this message, a note is posted to the Centre that Norway should prioritize food security and participation in the forums where this is centered. However, the Government Party and the Foreign Minister do not support these comments. Then my question is: why does the Foreign Minister not want the Government Party to support a remark that Norway should step up its efforts for multilateral cooperation on genetic resources and food security?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1120	First of all, I think it's okay to be clear that the Storting is, of course, the sovereigns to decide what comments they want to join, and that the Foreign Minister or others do not like that. At the same time, I would like to stress that this is an area of government that has been raised, precisely because, as the representative of Navarsete, we believe that this is an important issue. In terms of both climate adaptation and food security — and not least the fact that more and more internally displaced people in the world are experiencing food insecurity and an increasingly difficult food situation — we see that climate change increases food security in very many contexts. This is also the background to the action plan promoted jointly by several state councils, which we are now following up on, among other things. through the budgets, and which I am absolutely sure the Minister for Development is also happy to talk more about in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1127	From that point of view, one might well conclude that there is less close cooperation between the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government Party than it may have looked like and that there is often between the Government Party and the Government Councils. But I have another question. In this setting, the SV and the Central Party point out that the requirement for economic liberalisation imposed by developing countries in the 1980s has been included and laid the basis for the economic inequality we see in many countries today. We know, of course, that liberalisation leads to greater inequality. Is the Foreign Minister saying that this is a necessary factor in understanding the situation we see in many countries around us today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1136	I can assure you that the cooperation between the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the fraction is the very best, but at the same time the fraction is of course free to assess which comments and proposals they will join. So on the issue of economic liberalisation: I think there is little doubt that, in most contexts and countries, the transition from a planned economy to a market economy and free trade has provided both economic growth, prosperity development and security. At the same time, the message points out, as I have also been involved in many different contexts, that what we see today as one of the challenges is, among other things, what we see as one of the challenges. a uneven and unequal distribution in countries, i.e. the fact that in internal and national policies a good enough policy of distribution has not been taken into account, as has been the concern of changing governments in Norway, and I am absolutely sure that in the years to come we will also be concerned, regardless of who is in government. I think that is at the heart of the challenge and the problem, not that we have had economic liberalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1146	I was actually tempted to take up one of my favorite debates with the representative Tybring-Gjedde, namely the sale of military material to the same dictatorship states in the Middle East, for which the Progress Party is there. But I understand that I can't ask about it, so I'm going to ask the Foreign Minister about an important matter for us in SV. On every single occasion we have seen similar international security policy changes as we are now in, in the past, Norway has set up a defence commission to discuss through our defence and security policies. It happened after the Union resolution, after World War I, after World War II, after the Vietnam War and after the Cold War. Many would think that this message describes such a big change in the way the world works and in the evolution of the relationship between the major powers, that it would be very relevant to do something like this again. Will the government reconsider the question of setting up a new Norwegian Defence Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1153	I have had the pleasure of being also Minister of Defence and can say that the processes we had linked to the current long-term plan of defence and the corresponding process of the future long-term plan, I believe very much meets this need. Security policy analyses are being reviewed and updated, and, of course, the military strategic analyses and analyses of what is needed for Norway in an allied framework are being reviewed and how we are to arm our own defences and the allied defence of the threats that are coming at all times. As I've been a little bit involved in different contexts after the NATO leadership meeting, the many challenges we're seeing are not something that primarily requires military answers, but a defence alliance like NATO needs, for example. have a world-wide analysis that takes into account the importance of addressing strategic challenges. I therefore believe that we also have a good overall understanding of how the picture affects Norway through the work we are now doing on a new Northern Region Communication, where the strategic image of the northern regions will also be updated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1160	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1165	This message is a good message, coming at a very correct time. The notification addresses important changes in the world that also affect our country to the greatest extent. Norway has been a driving force in the emergence of the rule-based world order. We haven't done that just because it serves our own interests, it's also because the world has an interest in common rules that create predictability and stability. It serves both the small and the large states in the long run. In contrast to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, the right view is that Norway, as a small nation, has everything to gain from well-organised world cooperation with strong and predictable multilateral forms of cooperation. International law is the first line defence of Norway and small nations and can never be taken for granted. The alternative is that power goes right ahead, and then small states will have to suffer. Norway expects other countries to follow international law as well. Therefore, Norway is committed to supporting sanctions against countries that commit serious violations of international law. China and Russia have long challenged rules and standards for international interaction. The new thing, however, is that Trump's United States has adopted a clearly more bilateral approach to international policy. It also creates challenges for Norway. The transatlantic band is crucial for Norway’s safety, and the relationship to the White House is invaluable. Presidents come and go, Norway's relationship to the White House is over. Contributing to the maintenance of international legal order and multilateral governance systems is and will become a key element of Norwegian foreign policy. Therefore, Norway appears to be a clear defender of the multilateral system when challenged, regardless of who the challenger might be. It is part of the history of the responsible and wise Norwegian foreign policy that Norway was a driver and an architect, together with other nations, in the establishment of the UN, NATO, the World Bank, the IMF and the WTO. Norway's open economy means that we benefit greatly from a commercial law regime. Without binding international agreements and cooperation, Norway had not had the prosperity we have today. It is serious when trade policy is now characterised by the emergence of bilateral and regional strategies. Norway has been a driver of open markets and free trade, both through multilateral agreements and bilateral agreements – which, in the SV's view, is the disgusting international economic liberalism. Norway’s main forum for the promotion of Norwegian economic interests has been the WTO and the IMF. Therefore, it is so serious for Norway too that these organisations are now in a crisis and have major internal problems to deal with. The Nordic regions are Norway’s main foreign policy area. Developments in the Arctic, with increased major importance for action, mean that Norway must have a firm view of the north and a firm grip on the north. Norway should show clear leadership when the Presidency is taken over by the Arctic Council in 2022, because the conventions and agreements that have contributed to stability and clarified conditions in the northern regions are now under pressure – unfortunately. These are agreements that are absolutely fundamental for us to be able to care for Norwegian strategic interests in this so important area. Finally, there is every reason to be on guard against peripheral countries trying to define themselves as near-arctic states and want to challenge the Arctic balance. Therefore, it is with joy, and some sort of tranquillity, I see that the message states that Norway wants to strengthen Arctic Council, because the work of the Arctic Council is so important to Norway. The Arctic is characterised by stability and good international cooperation, based on international law. This is how the Arctic should remain.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1192	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for his thorough and committed work on the message. The message that I have listened with interest to be debated with different inputs today is nevertheless a message that brings together a good, large and broad majority in the Stortinget. The role and interests of Norway in multilateral cooperation are worth both the investigation it has received and the work that has been done in the EEA and in the Committee. The title is well formulated, because, as the communication convincingly explains, it is through multilateral cooperation that we in Norway – as a small but open country – are able to care for our interests. There are several arenas for multilateral cooperation. I'll nevertheless highlight one of them. If we are to judge by trade, business and jobs in Norwegian districts, our main multilateral agreement is enshrined in the EEA Agreement. Although Norway said no to full membership in 1972 and 1994 — a position that we must and must respect — the EU may be the most important international organisation, of which we properly celebrate, but on which we choose not to be a member. Representatives before me have mentioned that it should be a cross of thought and at a high time that we are actually debating the EU and its importance for Norway. It's our most important neighbourhood, both economically, politically and culturally. I heard with amazement the reasoning of the representative Lysbakken and the Socialist Left that, when we are not in the European Union, we are getting more attention and more respect for other arenas. It's a policy and a math that I can't see being documented well enough, or in any way at all, to say it very simply. Today, EU legislation covers the vast majority of societal areas – from trade and labour standards to environment, greenhouse gas emissions and border control. Norway is covered by large parts of this European acquis through the EEA Agreement, the Schengen Agreement and a number of other agreements that we have concluded with the EU. The EEA Agreement is therefore Norway's most important and comprehensive agreement. It establishes a single internal market for more than 500 million people. It includes the EU countries as well as the EFTA countries Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein and provides legislation on trade and economic relations. In the areas covered by the Agreement, the EEA constitutes a single market in which EEA citizens and enterprises in all EEA countries are to be treated equally. That commitment is made, especially by accepting the four freedoms of the citizens of the European Union in Norway. In addition, we contribute to the development of democracy and stability in Europe through EEA funds. It's not without reason that we from my and our party, Right, call the EEA Agreement a welfare system. Including oil and gas about 80 pst. of all Norwegian exports — all Norwegian exports — through the EEA territory, corresponding to approximately 300 billion. kr per year. This makes people in the private business feel good, and I think that is also some of the reasons why the EEA Agreement has a historically high uptake. Over 60 pst. the current status of the population is positive to the agreement. At the same time, we cannot take the agreement for granted. Norwegian policy forces – we have heard that in today’s debate – cast doubt on the importance of the agreement, which undermines its importance, or which have ideological problems with what it stands for. Some attack the agreement because they want more protectionism in the country. Others use it as a useful chopstick for all kinds of dissatisfaction. There's reason to wonder if these cancers are aware of what they're really at risk. Are they prepared to meet the owner of the small enterprise that loses its export access if the contract would be compromised? Or is it just a rhetorical game, in the certainty that it will in any case pass? You can wonder. One is certainly certain: anyone who has read the big message of multilateral cooperation will be convinced that a small – we just have to admit that we are – but open countries like Norway need internationally committed cooperation in order to follow and pursue their interests. The government shows that it stands as a defender and guarantor of this, also for our relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1209	I have a few comments, including: to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was to give priority: we have to ‘make a choice’ – then I wonder which choices. ‘We must give priority’ – then I wonder what priority should be given. They said to solve conflicts where there were special conditions to contribute. It wasn't an option not to get involved, and you should also get involved because the world is developing a very big rectorialization. In other words, we should also have an engagement there. Then I would assume that it also applies to all other countries of our size, who should be involved in these questions, and who have something to contribute to. Perhaps you take your mouth too full, that you exaggerate the importance of Norway a little. I understand that it is desirable to play a big man around, and I understand that it is very interesting. I've been working in the same business myself, so I know how people think around, but maybe we should reduce our ambitions just a little bit. So it is that in the UN Human Rights Council – for the UN is an organization you are very happy with, and in which the government is also very happy – Venezuela, Sudan, Libya and Afghanistan sit. Then you can fool yourself when you have to argue that the UN is a good place to be and a good place to argue, and we're even going into the Security Council: this is a country that's going to tell others that they're violating human rights. The United States withdrew from the Human Rights Council in 2018. Nevertheless, we continue to believe in this system, which obviously has played completely failed without us daren't say it. So please, can't Norway now get its eyes up and be more realistic in our foreign policy and deal with the challenges Norway actually has? These include: trade, the relationship with the EEA Agreement, not least the relationship with NATO, our likes, it's the North and it's the North. That's what we should focus on, not on how it goes in either UAE, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela or anywhere else, and at least we shouldn't use our energy and a whole lot of labor in the UN to sit and eat cherries with the big ones in the Security Council. It's wasted money, and in addition, we'll have to be unfamiliar with one of these five major acts that have veto rights, whether it's France, the United Kingdom, the United States, China or Russia. It's no good for us to become unfamiliar with any of the five nations, because we have to give our voice in different matters. Once again, my appeal is that you do not have relations with the United Nations Security Council. Say there are other nations that can get that place by us. We can do completely different things. I understand that this probably irritates the foreign minister a lot, but the fact that we're not going to play the big man around is actually a sentence that's shared by very, very many Norwegians. We can, for example: Look at our aid budget, which is now 40 billion. kr – completely unended. So you can ask yourself the question: How many countries are now independent of assistance after Norway has given huge sums of aid? And it automatically increases above the state budget every year. How many nations are now democracies and flourishes and sells their goods? It's zero - zero. To the representative of the Lysbakken, who spoke of it as ‘the embodiment of economic right-wing policy’, and that is why it was rivalry around the world: if that’s what he has the impression – because different European nations are starting to look at their national borders and are concerned with their national interests rather than engaging globally – and if that’s what he perceives when he’s out running election campaigns, that’s the feedback he gets, and that’s why one is skeptical about international cooperation, because there’s more poor and bigger distinction between poor and rich, so well. At least it's not the people I meet, either by e-mail or elsewhere. You don't get that feedback. He may get it, but then he must tell me where he gets it from. In the case of the sale of defence equipment to undemocratic regimes, e.g. So, UAE, we're done with it. We're not doing it anymore. We ended it in 2018. And I would like to hear from the representative Light Bin: The point of defence equipment and components in defense equipment makes it very demanding, because if you say that you can't place a component in a big system, the system can't work. This means that one cannot contribute elsewhere in a large system. This has a major impact on Norwegian industry. But now we're done with it, and that's why I want to encourage the representative Lysbakken and SV to have a similar attitude to that of apartheid in South Africa. Why not cut out the relationship with e.g. Saudi Arabia, Libya or any other country I mentioned? Of course we don't, because the principles are completely different, the conflicts are completely different, and we want to be there and have a dialogue with them – not to be as principled.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1228	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1233	Here it was a bit of each one to deal with, but the starting point of the representative Tybring-Gjedde is that he disagrees with everything in Norwegian foreign policy, he disagrees with all parties in this room and very often disagrees with his own party. It's an honest thing. It is also not right that the representative Tybring-Gjedde is trying to reproduce, that I believe we should engage in major activisation. I'm just saying that we have to take it over us. It has consequences for Norway and for how we maneuver, and it would be very strange if a country like Norway were not to try to keep our interests in the best possible way, even in a political landscape where manoeuvring becomes increasingly difficult. It also seems that the representative Tybring-Gjedde has as a starting point that Norway should make as small as possible, that we should not seek influence anywhere and not try to influence the world as it looks today, so that we can better attend to Norwegian interests. There is no one in Norway who wants to ‘play big man’. But I think it's a good example the representative himself is drawing up, when he's talking about some of the most important things for us is trade, it's EEA, it's NATO, and it's the northern areas. And how does the representative Tybring-Gjedde think that we care for our interests – in terms of trade, the EEA, NATO and the North – if it had not been for binding international cooperation? Where would Norway have been without the seabed? Where would the Norwegian economy have been without the EEA Agreement? Where would Norwegian security be without NATO? All of this is mandatory international cooperation. That's what we're building our security, our prosperity and our well-being. I do not think the reasoning of the representative Tybring-Gjedde is related when he believes that we should actively withdraw from all these processes that contribute to taking care of Norwegian interests, put us on the outside and pretend that major activism does not affect us. One main argument for not going into the Security Council, as well as many things the representative is drawing out, is that we can then get into conflict with the P5, that is, the veto acts. I've heard that argument before. The reality of today's international political landscape is that every day we have to deal with different conflicts and issues – involving China and the United States. We can't hide from that. We can't hide from it now, we can't hide from it in the Security Council. It's part of today's international reality that we have to go into if we're to be able to take good care of Norwegian interests. I think most of the parties here in the Chamber have landed in a good way in describing how Norwegian interests can best be cared for in an increasingly challenging political landscape, where the alternative is not to volunteer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1248	Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Frydenlund of the Workers' Party said in the 1970s that Norway was a small country in a dangerous world. That's still true. But when you listen to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, it almost sounds as if Norway is unaffected and should not relate to the world of which we are part. The representative, Tybring-Gjedde, says that we should conduct a foreign policy that benefits Norwegian interests. Norwegian interests do not live in a vacuum, Norwegian interests find their solution in a world society. What would Norway have been without the law of the sea, which has added enormous values to our country? And international law – our first line defense: what would NATO and our national defense have had to deal with if international law had not stood there as a buffer for – at worst – expansive major powers? Then I have to ask the representative Tybring-Gjedde: Is the representative a stranger to what is happening, for example. in Africa – climate change, migration, large refugee flows – also affecting Norway? Since the representative Tybring-Gjedde used the pulpit to ask points-by-point questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I reserve the right to do the same: What will replace the United Nations? What are the countries in the world to meet and decide and seek solutions to international problems? How can you manage to maintain a rule-based international world order if you put a big cross over the UN? The representative of Tybring-Gjedde has a lot that he needs to elaborate on, whether he can truthfully claim that Norway should pursue a foreign policy that only benefits Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1269	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1275	I ask the Foreign Minister to listen and not put words in my mouth that I have not said. We're going to deal with the EEA Agreement. We're going to deal with the northern regions. We're going to deal with NATO. We're going to deal with the Nordics. Just the agreements that affect what is in our interest – there we are going to be active, and there we are going to engage. But we do not necessarily have to be active in Africa, even though the representative of the Elves said we should be active in Africa. We don't have to be active in Africa if we think we should stop the migration flows. We need to be active where we have interests. In fact, we have the greatest migration because we're active, and not least migration because we're active. So it's not like an active engagement in North Africa and in the Middle East has led to fewer immigrants to Norway, although the Harek Rivers probably wanted it, I would assume. The point is what role we're going to play. We're not going to shut down the United Nations. The point is what role Norway, a tiny country, should play in the UN. We don't have to be one of the world's most central countries for the United Nations to survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1280	I heard what the representative Tybring-Gjede said, and my point was that his reasoning was not related. It is not possible on the one hand to say that Norway should do as little as possible, that we should not really seek influence anywhere, and at the same time be able to take care of our interests in committed international cooperation. That reasoning is not related. That's exactly why we write in the big message, which the representative Tybring-Gjede was also in his main post: ‘A key objective of Norwegian foreign policy in the coming years is therefore to support committed international cooperation and the multilateral system, so that we can strengthen our ability to address common challenges and take care of Norwegian and global interests.’ And we're going to say, "Oh, my God. ‘To prevent the weakening of international legal order and multinational governance systems is therefore Norway’s foremost foreign policy interest.’ I want to exemplify it with some of the themes I raised in my previous article. Today we have a trading system that we are totally dependent on, where we have the same driving rules as a small country, as it is for the United States as a large country. It depends on our economy – just as we depend entirely on the EEA Agreement, which is also multilateral cooperation, and in the same way that we depend entirely on international law, and perhaps in particular on the law of the sea, which is crucial for Norway. Had we not had international committed cooperation through, among other things, The World Health Organization and various vaccine alliances now, we could have been in an even more dramatic situation regarding the outbreak of the covid-19 virus. My point is this: Norway is not supposed to be reporting out or not actively participating either in these international organisations, in multilateral cooperation, in reforming and making them more effective and representative, while believing that it is the best way to take care of Norwegian interests. Nor is it useful to decide that we are not dealing with issues such as major activization, or that we are not dealing with some countries. That's not how the world works. If we are to be able to care for our interests, as a small country in an increasingly troubled and changing world, we need to have discussions like the one we have had today, and we need to ensure cooperation with other countries, including countries where we see that we do not agree on everything, in order to get through what is most important to us, our main foreign policy interest, namely to prevent the weakening of international law and multilateral governance systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1299	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1316	It is a unanimous committee behind the vote. Today, Stortinget shall grant its approval to the last facilities that will enable Norway to implement a short-term transitional loan to Somalia. The action itself, the implementation of the loan, was approved during the treatment of the State budget for 2020, but an authorisation is also required to ensure that the action itself can be carried out at the desired time. The transitional loan will be part of a multilaterally coordinated operation and the aim is to pay up Somalia’s defaulted loans from the World Bank’s Fund for the poorest countries, the International Development Association. Due to uncertainty about the final loan amount in Norwegian krona and the practical implementation proposed by the government using the Bank of Norway and the foreign reserve assets, the government is asked to grant new powers so that the transitional loan is given in US dollars. If the operation is carried out during the first week of March 2020, as added to it, the transitional loan will amount to approximately 360 million. U.S. dollars. The exact amount will depend on the price relationship between the US dollar and Norway's special drawing rights at the time of implementation. In order to take account of this uncertainty, a mandate framework of 400 million is proposed. U.S. dollars. It is important to clarify that the loan from Norway is channelled through the World Bank, not Somalia. The transitional loan is immediately followed up by Somalia receiving a new loan from the World Bank, which is used immediately to repay the transitional loan from Norway. Normally, the transaction will take place within a few hours. This is technical, but it's huge amounts, and it's important for Somalia. Norway has been actively contributing to peace and stabilisation in just Somalia since the beginning of the 2000s and has a good dialogue with the Somali authorities and the international financial institutions. Commitments on short-term transitional loans from Norway thus merge into Norway’s existing involvement with Somalia. Somalia has undergone a number of reforms in recent years. The country has also followed three successive economic reform programmes under the IMF and is running the fourth. Debt is one of the highest priorities of the Government of Somalia. It is positive that the government has taken the initiative to actively contribute to helping a country that has undergone and continues to undergo considerable trials.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1337	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1354	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1363	It is an important topic raised in the proposal for a representative. Today, only the National Transsexualism Treatment Service at the Rikshospitalet provides a complete range of services to people with sexual incontinence, or sexual dysphoria. The offer given is good, but the capacity is too small in relation to the huge increase we have seen in the last ten years. In 2012, 33 persons were referred to NBTS. Six years later, 206 people were referred to — in other words, an increase of 173 people. Of the 206 people referred to in 2018, 154 were born as a girl. Of these, more than half were between the ages of 15 and 17 years. The marked increase in this few years presents challenges for both NBTS and the individual human beings affected. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State confirms that national treatment services have capacity challenges and that increased staffing has not been fully compensated for the large increase in referrals. We don't know enough about what's causing the massive increase. Some explain that people with sex sinongruness come out of the closet, as we experienced among homosexuals years ago. Others claim that social media, such as YouTube, Facebook, etc., are involved in influencing the increase. I hope we can get to a Scandinavian research project so that we can get more knowledge of this field. Regardless of the reason for the violent increase, many people choose to turn to, among other things. prescribers and sexologists to start treatment with puberty-blocking hormones. In the opinion of the Right, it is very unfortunate that the national treatment service for transsexualism at the Rikshospitalet does not have sufficient capacity to care for all the people in a desperate situation. Limited treatment provision at only one site can lead to patients’ and users’ rights laws, such as: ensure that all patients have the right to re-evaluation by a specialist are broken – as described in the representative’s proposal. If we in the Right do not support the SV's proposal for a representative, it is among other things. because in 2017, the government started work on the establishment of national, professional guidelines for the treatment of sexual incontinence. The guidelines shall be planned to be completed by 2020. The work currently being carried out in the Directorate for Health and in regional health enterprises following the initiative of the Department has the same objective as proposed by the SV in the proposal for a representative – to establish a differentiated service offering that covers the entire range of individual treatment needs related to gender incongruence. As part of this work, we expect more regional services in the state health service for people with sexual sinongruness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1376	In Norway, gender is important. The first thing we ask acquaintances about when they have had a child is, was it a boy, or was it a girl? Gender is identity-creating, and it comes with a great deal of expectations in that way. Fortunately, the most stereotypical features begin to disappear. That's good. I hope and believe that we are getting a more tolerant Norway towards the unusual – that with today’s treatment in the United Kingdom, we will facilitate a fairer treatment of children who traverse, that we give each other the opportunity to become wiser and take good action so that children and young people who grow up in the country – yes, in the whole country – will be met with respect and listening adults who can provide good advice and treatment on the way forward. The Labour Party is committed to facilitating a more open and diverse society, to meeting professionals, and to providing evidence-based knowledge on the basis of any treatment given to them — and not prejudices and out-of-date attitudes. There's an increasing number of children with sexual syncongruence. Let's hope that this increase is about us as society meeting the unusual in a more common way. Furthermore, we are concerned that local and regional services need to be built up. This has also been promised by Minister of Health Höie. During the PRIDE week of 2018 he promised that this would come into place. Now we're writing 2020, and there's still no record other than a desire to get it done. We are impatient, and we demand action in this way. I know a great girl named Anna and I'm from Rogaland. She now lives in North Norway. She went to kindergarten with my son – they're both now 13 years old. Anna was born in a boy's body and baptized Adrian, but there's still little doubt that she's a pretty girl with hopefully all the opportunities in her future. That it was strange that Anna went from being a boy to being a girl during kindergarten years, only we adults thought. Anna does not hide how she feels today. She's doing very well – but thanks to her parents and grandparents, she's been safe on the sidelines and given her security and feedback that she's an amazing child. It is not necessarily the same feedback Anna has received with the healthcare system. Finally, I address the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1393	The representative Hege Haukeland Liadal has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1398	The Progress Party wishes to liquidate any monopoly. I can hardly think of a single monopoly that has the right to life – even when it comes to treatment for people with sexual sinongruness. Today, there is only one public treatment provision in Norway for persons with sexual incontinence, and it is the National Transsexualism Treatment Service (NBTS) at the Rikshospitalet. The waiting time is long, the appeal to the decision is limited, nor should it be necessary to collect absolutely all treatment provision for this group in one place. This is why the Progressive Party supports the proposers in establishing treatment offers in several places and that a system is to be set up in which a reassessment of persons who have been rejected by the NBTS can actually be obtained. The environment in Norway is small. The Progress Party believes that highly specialised genital surgery should be carried out in cooperation with other Nordic countries in order to ensure a good environment of competence and quality of supply. There are several proposals that have been promoted in this matter that the Progress Party could initially vote in favour of. It is reasonable to ensure that the provision of treatment is made more easily available. Hormonal therapy requires, for example: not be a task reserved for NBTS only. For all patients who are in need of hormonal treatment for reasons other than sex zincongruens, this offer is made by the prescribing physician. In this case, however, the party of progress has chosen to await the investigation by the government, as it is expected to be ready soon. We therefore expect the government to make changes or bring cases before the Storting in the course of the year, in order to improve treatment provision for persons with sexual sinongruness. The need for queues to reduce monopolies, and the need to maximise quality, are fundamental values in the health policy of the Progress Party – including in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1409	The waiting time for national treatment services for transsexualism has been and is long, with a large number of referrals coming. The SV’s proposers propose several measures to ensure alternative treatment provision for trans-persons. In this matter, I and the Central Party believe that the Minister of Health has done well for the matters in his letter to the Committee. National professional guidelines have been developed, a process has been launched to address the future organisation of treatment provision in the specialist services in this area, and a national treatment service has been established in Norway, in the Rikshospital, because it is a relatively small patient group with a need for highly specialised treatment. Other treatment and follow-up activities should be carried out in other parts of the health service, and for these, it is important to have decentralised provision of non-high-specialised services. It is important that this treatment is professionally considered and that there is scientific evidence that the treatment is appropriate for the patient group in question. The centre party notes in the setting that surgery and hormone treatment are ‘very invasive and partly irreversible treatments associated with the risk of serious complications and adverse reactions’ and that it is not in itself an objective to lower the threshold at which such treatment is to be provided, especially when it is largely intended for children and young people who are increasingly seeking such treatment. Harry Benjamin Resource Centre, in its hearing response, states that very strict requirements should be imposed for triggering life-changing hormone and surgery treatment, and that there should be an absolute commitment that the treatment, possible side effects and unintended effects are firmly anchored in research on actual effects. So I thought it should be mentioned in this debate that there are also many examples that young people who are engaged in sex change can have problems afterwards. The NRK has had a review of it, and new research from Finland is also updating this issue. But we support what is the comments from the majority in this case, and we join with the SV and the Labour Party in the proposal to ask for the implementation of a living and quality of life study.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1424	I never thought SV would get the entire committee to show that today's complaints about decisions by NBTS are limited. The same applies to the fact that the entire Committee asks the Government to consider concluding an agreement for the reassessment of the right to gender-based treatment abroad, and that the entire Committee writes that we should consider cooperation with other Nordic countries in order to ensure a good environment of competence and good quality of the offer. I want to commend the other parties for showing that they agree, and that the SV through several good remarks gets a majority with them, and I want to greet everyone who has worked to improve the system. We're not done, but now the parties understand a little bit of the problems we have. It is not uncommon for a small country like Norway to have one or two places in the country that work with diagnostics that are not so common. What becomes the problem of the diagnosis of gender incongruence is that there are no good, objective criteria that can be used to find out who needs health care, and who doesn't need it. Then the system becomes very vulnerable, because some people – e.g. a person who has not as easily expressed himself verbally as myself — is unable to convince those who work at NBTS that they have a health need. If you get a discount, there's no other way to get health care. It's very good that the other parties understand a little bit of the problems. However, when they agree that complaints are limited and that they will cooperate with other countries, which were part of the SV's representative proposals, it is strange that they vote against all the proposals. SV is alone in the Committee on the Elimination of the Monopolistic Situation, on measures in line with the Patient and User Rights Act, and on measures to reduce the waiting time. I promote all our suggestions in the matter, and SV will always fight for those who need good help, not just for those who get on top.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1437	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1442	I would like to thank the proposers for addressing an important issue, namely the provision of treatment for transpersons. I am pleased that the government has the aim of quickly putting in place a comprehensive treatment service to meet the need for health care in people with sexual sinongruness. In 2017, the Ministry launched work on the establishment of national guidelines for the treatment of sexual incontinence and the guidelines will be completed by 2020. The rationale for establishing a national treatment service for patients diagnosed with transsexualism, NBTS, one site in Norway, the Rikshospitalet, has been that it is a relatively small patient group in need of highly specialised treatment and that there is a need to gather and develop specialised competences. The minority of the Committee would like to decentralise the offer and make it more accessible. I would like to await the government's work to look at the future organisation of treatment provision in the specialist healthcare service, which will clarify what is still to be highly specialised treatment reserved for a national treatment service. Health South-East shall publish a national technical guideline in April 2020. The proposed recommendations of the Health Directorate shall be used as a basis for the establishment, together with international expertise and experience from the services of other countries in this field. The people this applies, each has its own history and each its own starting point. Our future treatment provision therefore needs to facilitate individual processes to be met by a treatment offer anchored in professionalism, for surgery and hormone treatment of persons experiencing sexual incontinence, is highly invasive and, to some extent, irreversible. I don't think it should be a goal in itself to lower the threshold for such treatment, especially when it is so much children and young people who increasingly want such treatment. Being a teenager is in itself a transformation process. Knowing about sexual dysphoria in this life phase must be met with good time and knowledge, and I am very much in agreement with the hearing opinion of the user organisation Harry Benjamin Resource Centre, which believes that very strict demands should be made for what triggers life-changing treatment. I look forward to the government's investigation being made so that this group of patients can receive a reinforced treatment offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1455	Subjects with gender-related health challenges have long lacked a comprehensive and satisfactory treatment provision. The government is therefore committed to putting in place an offer also to patients who are not mandated and able to deal with the national treatment service in the Rikshospital. This means that treatment services must also be established at lower levels, with specialist competence to ensure professionally sound and sound treatment. As I pointed out in my reply to the proposal for a representative, the expert group report and the consultation provided the basis for the 2017 Health Directorate's mission to establish national professional guidelines for the treatment of gender incontinence. The guidelines are scheduled to be published in April/May of this year. At the same time as this assignment to the directorate, I asked Health South-East to investigate how the treatment offer to the patient group should be organised. Work on national guidelines and the development of health services is professionally demanding and, unfortunately, has taken longer than is desirable. The draft guidelines for the examination of sex zincongruence by the Directorate-General for Health are open to consultation with a deadline of 28 February. In order to ensure progress in the work of specialist healthcare, the Ministry of Health has asked health regions in the 2020 mission paper to establish a comprehensive treatment offer. This will be done in dialogue with the Health Directorate until the publication of final national guidelines for spring. The recommendations of the Directorate shall be used for the establishment, together with international expertise and experience from other countries. Once the final guidelines have been published, health regions will have to assess whether to adjust the offer. In view of the debate on the future role of national treatment services, I would like to make it clear that there will still be a need for highly specialised treatment for conditions such as: involves genital surgery. In working with regional and local services for treatment needs that do not require a highly specialised competence, I believe it is important to involve professional resources outside the Rikshospital. Finally, I note the Committee's request to consider concluding an agreement to review the right to high-specialised treatment abroad. Today, there is no statutory right to review for diagnostic groups covered by national services. The conclusion of an agreement must therefore also take place on the initiative of the health regions, and the ministry will now follow up this issue in the dialogue with Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1473	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1478	The report entitled ‘Right to sex — Health to all genders’, prepared by an expert group in the Directorate for Health, has highlighted the need for increased competence in all parts of the healthcare system to ensure that people who experience sexual dysfunction are offered professionally sound health care and met with understanding and respect by health professionals. There is a need for adequate skills in primary health services, even if the patient population is small. My question to the Council of State is this: What kind of action will the Council of State consider taking to build up the necessary competences in this part of healthcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1483	We are now awaiting the Health Directorate's proposal for guidelines, such as: based on the work of the expert group. What has been important to me is to ask health regions to establish services in parallel with the work on the guidelines, so that this will not take even longer than it has now taken – if we, for example, have. had waited to ask them to establish an offer after the guidelines had been completed. That's why this work is now going parallel.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1488	I thank you for your answer. International living conditions surveys show depressing figures of mental health disorders in persons experiencing sexual incontinence and associated discomfort and distress. The exposed situation leads too many to what may also be called minority stress, an additional burden that individuals from stigmatised groups are subjected to because of the position of their minority. Meetings with prejudices and rejections and disgusts may contribute to the health of this group. What measures does the Council of State think it will be possible to take to promote the health of people who experience sexual incontinence? One knows a lot about what works, regardless of what you have at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1493	It's a much broader question the representative addresses, because it's a lot about society being open and accepting people who are perceived as different. This is why this is an important part of the strategy that the government has, linked to the entire LHBTIQ area, and which is now working on. There is no doubt – in my opinion – that this group has received far too little attention in the past, including in the general work in this area. Although there has been more transparency in this area, there is still a great deal of work to be done to avoid the unhealthy and psychological burden of being subjected to heat and violence, which unfortunately remains in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1498	There is a lot of research that shows that many people have a positive effect on gender shifts, but in Finland new research has just been published that goes against what it might have been, that the vast majority of people get better. The new research shows that this is not the case for many young patients in Finland aged 13-18 years. The majority of those who start hormone treatment before reaching the age of 18 in Finland find no psychological relief in treatment, and a small group also suffers worse from it. The NRK has shown in its reporters that there are also girls in Norway who regret that they have carried out such irreversible treatment. I don't expect the Council of State to say anything specific about this, but does the Council of State see the problem of having a high threshold to make irreversible changes and hormone treatment/surgery in very young girls and boys?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1505	I still believe that the main challenge is related to what the proposal for a representative addresses, which is also in my response, and which is the current work, namely that there is a lack of treatment, that too many people have to wait too long for the help they need, and that we need to expand and expand treatment provision. But then I agree with what the representative says, that in the case of e.g. to carry out large and extensive surgery at high risk, which represents genital surgery, we must be very sure that those who receive that type of treatment are the right patients. And it's an important work that's done. This is an area in which there is, of course, a need for more knowledge, and all research in this area is welcome. It is also important not to take out a single study and just focus on it, but to look at the whole and the knowledge that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1512	The title of the proposal is to ensure alternative forms of treatment, and it may be a slightly different approach than to get rid of the line of treatment that exists and that fewer needs to be waited for so long. I also perceive that there is a criticism that the threshold for receiving that type of highly specialised treatment is too high — that it is also the basis of the proposal — and that is a slightly different issue. The Central Party fully supports the response of the Council of State and agrees that the treatment supply needs to be expanded, which can be expanded and decentralised. But after the Council of State answered the question, will the Council of State ensure that there will be some sort of follow-up evaluation of the treatments given, so that we can know more about what might be the problem in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1519	What is important is that there is a broad scope in the offer to this group, because it will be a broad range in the need for the offer. I would like to remind you that it is a very short time since we completed the first step, which I believe was absolutely crucial, namely to have a legal change in Norway that made it possible to actually get a different legal gender – without undergoing such extensive treatment as the Rikshospital offers. It's actually quite daunting to think about, today, that a short time ago Norway had a law that made the only way you got to change the legal gender was actually going through such an extensive treatment. So I think we have to do this in a combination. We need to develop other types of treatment for those who do not need what is the most advanced, which we are going to offer at the Rikshospitalet. At the same time, we have to assume that there is a strain that there are now so long waiting times, even for those who are going to have treatment at the Rikshospital, and that is also negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1526	The government is working for the new regional investigation teams. They shall be established in close cooperation with the NBTS. Should the new treatment provision be independent, or should they be under NBTS?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1531	The new treatment provision should be independent, but I think it is an advantage that everyone working in this area participates in a professional network, where some knowledge and information are shared, not least that those patients who need a treatment offer in the national service have the possibility that both investigation and follow-up can take place locally as we develop that competence. However, even in this area, everyone will need the type of offer provided in the national offer. They will be able to get an offer more regionally and locally. It is also the basis for thinking in the mission given, but it is in line with the guidelines that are now being consulted and on which the directorate will soon conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1537	SV is very concerned about the monopoly situation. But another question: Will the government negotiate an agreement with other countries to re-assess the right to gender-based, highly specialised treatment abroad, as the Committee wrote?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1542	Yes, we will follow up on the Committee's comments in this area. I agree that it would have been a great advantage if it had been possible to do so. However, it is quite complicated, because in other countries too, there is a great deal going on in this type of treatment provision. It's organized a little bit differently, and there's a little bit of different approaches as well. It is also important to keep in mind that the type of offer offered at the Rikshospitalet is not a simple procedure. There's too many talk about almost lifelong follow-up and treatment. This makes it a little more complicated than getting a ‘second opinion’ linked to a simple intervention or treatment, because it is the treatment environment in Norway that is best suited to follow-up over time. It may be quite demanding to have to follow up on this type of treatment abroad over time. But all of this is something that we have to include in our assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1549	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1556	I know about several people who have either had to pay off their own pocket to get treatment, or who have remained standing without any offer of treatment. Tarald Stein is a Norwegian author who was informed by NBTS in 2008 that he was not offered health care. Today, twelve years later, Tarald still lives as the man he knows he is, but as the state didn't think he was. Tarald is just one example of the many people who should have received health care, but who didn't. I would like to commend the other parties who agree to refer to today's complaints about decisions at NBTS. All members of the Health and Welfare Committee will be asked by the government to consider working with other countries to allow people to re-assess the right to sex confirmation. Norway has progressed a little further, but we are not finished. SV will always fight for everyone to get good help, not just get them on top.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1565	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1582	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1589	The Committee has examined representative proposals for measures to ensure patients safe outsourcing and decent transport from hospitals. The proposals deal with what is missing in the interaction between municipalities and specialist health services, which affects patients unworthy. The patients are going to be throwing balls. Patients most in need of healthcare had deserved greater attention from both the government, the Minister of Health and changing senior ministers from the Progress Party. The interaction reform should lead to prior treatment and improved interaction — the right help at the right place at the right time. Local authorities were given greater responsibility for health care. The patient course, the flow between municipalities and hospitals and the flow within departments and units were particularly important. The reform was a policy reform, and it requires continuous work. Unfortunately, the Minister of Health and the Government have failed. In some areas, the interaction reform is successful. We now treat many more people in hospitals than we did before. In other areas, however, the reform has not been followed up as intended. There are, in particular, two areas where we see major challenges today: the fact that municipalities have not been able to provide more health care, and the excessive belief in target management, which has simply been put into the system. Hospitals treat several outpatients and send them back to the municipalities. But what about the other side? What has the Minister for Health and Changing Older Ministers of the Progress Party done for the many patient groups that municipalities would follow up on? The follow-up to the interaction reform received crushing criticism from the Riksrevision in 2016. There is still too little capacity in municipalities, especially in the area of drugs and psychiatry. This year the government also delivers the worst financial arrangement for municipalities of 15 years. In addition, there is still too little competence in municipalities to accept patients with heavier patient profiles. The suggestions in the minority settings, i.e. the red-green parties, take seriously the situation of many patients – as opposed to the right. I'll take up the minority proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1602	The representative, Mr Kjerkol, then brought up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1607	Good cooperation between specialist health services and municipal health and care services is central to providing patients with good services. The interaction reform has created some challenges that this government is now addressing. The examples revealed by the press are completely unsustainable. When elderly and heavily nursing patients are sent by farms in the middle of the night, it is obvious that there is a failure somewhere, which should not happen. Health care establishments also agree not to happen. The question then is why it happens. We need to understand what's the reason why this happens in order to do something about it. This has now been addressed by the Minister of Health. They shall also consider any changes to the requirements on ready-to-print patients, relevant supervisors, management information, financial instruments and digital assumptions. The investigation shall be carried out together with the KS, the Oslo Municipality, the regional health companies and the Directorate for e-Health. We need to know more about why to put in the right action. The Committee is examining the national health and hospital plan during these days. It is one of the most important measures in the new health communities. This has been proposed precisely because the government acknowledges that we have a challenge related to interaction both within hospitals and between hospitals and municipalities. Therefore, the government and the KS have agreed to organise themselves in 19 health communities. It's about improving communication and getting a common sense of reality. Health communities are becoming important to ensure that patients experience a comprehensive and coherent health and care service, regardless of where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1618	Every night, elderly and fragile people are sent home from the hospital. Unfortunately, it is obvious that the government has failed to ensure interaction in healthcare. The Progress Party notes that the Minister of Health has ordered a full stop in night transport and that the Minister has asked the Health Directorate to investigate the process of outsourcing and patient treatment for better interaction, but it has not just stopped the night transport of the elderly and fragile. I have to say that I am genuinely sorry that older and sick people are being treated that way. There's something serious wrong with the system. Demente Sissel Møller fell down a staircase in the home of the Rome Christmas and was strongly suggested. From Ullevål Hospital she was sent home in slippers, sweaters, with full diapers and two envelopes of medications, without the hospital knowing if there was anyone at home to receive her. The only thing the family asked for was that the return of elderly people without a sick place should take place under safe circumstances. The hospital on its side thought she was ready to print and just followed the routines. But Sissel was demented and needy. The hospital later complained to the family and said that they would go through their return procedures. It is obvious that people with dementia also have the right to meet with dignity and security. There should be a minimum requirement that hospitals make sure that there are someone at home to receive them when they are sent home and that they do not have to be sent home in the middle of the night. Sissel Møller is just one of many – one of many fragile elderly people who each week are sent home from hospital either in the middle of the night or with failed follow-up. Several governments have tried to get hospitals and municipalities to cooperate better on patients, without success. In the revised National Health and Sickness Plan that the Stortinget is dealing with this spring, the government proposes the establishment of a health community between hospitals, municipalities, permanent doctors, patients and users. The most important thing for our healthcare users is that they work well, and that the different levels work together, not against each other. The Progress Party probably believes that establishing a health community can be a wise move. Nevertheless, I have to say that when the Minister of Health orders stop in the night transport of hospitals, and this does not result in hospitals stopping the use of night transport, there is something serious wrong with the system. I hope that the Minister of Health can clarify how this can be done, and what the Council of State intends to do in the future to actually get a stop in night transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1631	In the middle of the night, sick elderly people are transported home from hospitals, and this is happening to a large extent. VG’s survey of the AMK centres showed that in 2018 there were at least 1,546 trips with over 74 years of age between ten and seven o’clock in the morning. 461 of the trips were for patients aged 90 years or older, and 600 trips went from the hospital between midnight and 5 p.m. It is quite incomprehensible to think that this is happening in the Norwegian health system. The large increase in night transports that have been following the interaction reform is, according to the Central Party's assessment, a consequence of the lack of value-driven specialist services, the pressure of today's hospitals, with bursting capacity, and the lack of follow-up of the interaction reform by today's government, which has allowed a reduction in bed capacity and cut in the ambulance service that has particularly affected the fragile elderly. The ambulance service must give priority to urgent tasks and to deprioritising old sick people who are only to be transported home. Nor is it unusual for an ambulance to be changed on the way home. In addition, intervention-driven funding combined with municipal payments for ready-to-print patients provides very strong financial incentives for rapid hospital outsourcing. Today, work on good and defensive discharge from hospitals is strictly regulated by law and regulation. However, in many cases the practice of health care is quite different, and the fact that the patient himself, the relatives and the community health service are to be involved rarely occurs. One also has the right to have both an individual coordinator and an individual level, but patient rights do not seem to apply to the old sick and crippled to the same extent as to other patients. Governments have informed regional health care providers that night transport should not occur unless the patient wants it or there are other special circumstances. It didn't help. Now the mission document has been included, but the Central Party wants this to be anchored in the Stortinget, and it also needs to be specified that an ambulance exchange will not normally take place. There are good laws today, but the problem is that health professionals do not follow their own guidelines. The centre party will propose increased bed capacity, evaluate the printing process and provide patients and related real involvement. By doing so, I would recommend the proposals of which the Central Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1646	In the middle of the night, sick and demented elderly people are transported home from the hospitals. It's not okay. It's terrible that a demented woman is carried at night, and for the hospital it took two days to get her on the right keel again. It is VG that has come up with this matter, and it is important that they get commendation. It is also nice that the Progress Party participates in a comment from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, and it shows that the government has failed in its promises to ensure interaction in healthcare. I thought that the Progress Party would vote in favour of better policies for the elderly and not just comments, but they have said that they will vote against all the proposals. It's very sad for the elderly that the Progress Party is running for the right-wing government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1653	The examples of the night-carrying press in Norwegian hospitals indicate that we have failed to create the comprehensive and coherent services needed by the vulnerable patient groups in particular. It is totally unacceptable to wake up elderly and needy patients and send them home in the middle of the night. After VG's revelations before the summer last year, I clearly informed the health managers and health companies that night transport should not occur unless the patient wants it himself, or there are very special conditions that warrant it. This is now also set out in the formal management dialogue. In the 2020 mission document, I have asked the health care regions to ensure that elderly patients and patients with a need for help are provided with ambulance services or patient transportation during the day and afternoon so that they are not sent home at night. This may involve increased transport capacity during the day and afternoon. Derogations may be made if patients themselves wish to return home, but such a wish must be documented. I have also asked the Health Directorate to find out what is wanted for the device of the printing process. Based on this, the Executive Board shall propose any changes to national framework conditions, such as prescriptions on ready-to-print patients, supervisors, governance information, financial instruments and digital assumptions. The health director shall draw on exchanges of experience from hospitals and municipalities that have established good printing processes and patient pathways. In autumn, the government and the KS launched the establishment of 19 health communities. Hospitals and municipalities need to develop better procedures and procedures for individual patients, different patient groups and specific processes. There is also a need for joint planning and cooperation on overall strategic issues. In the health community, representatives from municipalities and health businesses will meet at the right level to discuss right issues. The Government and the KS believe that health communities should pay particular attention to the development of services for children and young people, persons with severe mental and drug problems, fragile elderly people and persons with multiple chronic disorders. In this context, I point out that the allocation of capacity between outpatient and outpatient clinics and other types of services needs to be planned locally and seen in the context of local authorities’ services and plans. This should therefore be discussed in the health communities and not adopted from national level.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1664	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1669	Local payment obligations for patients who are ready to print put pressure on municipalities to provide hospitalised accommodation on short notice for patients who are ready to print. As a result, rapid printing is often given priority over good printing, and home-dwelling patients need to be put back in line, sometimes in hospital, and that the interaction between the hospital and the municipalities is then conflicted. The Minister of Health has now created these health communities, where interaction is to be improved, and he has also launched investigations into possible regulatory changes. But does the Minister of Health not see that perhaps this very part of the service, that the municipalities are imposed an economic obligation when others decide when the patients are ready to accept, weakens the interaction?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1677	There is absolute reason to ask questions about the main instrument introduced by the Workers’ Party in the cooperation reform, namely the obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print. But there is no doubt that it is an advantage for both the municipality, the patient and the hospital that patients do not stay in hospital for too long. This means that you have to have a good alternative up and go before you terminate this payment scheme, if any, and that is exactly what the health community represents. At the time that we have managed to establish a good, committed cooperation between the municipality and the hospital, which is based on the local conditions and what is best for the patient, I believe that there is every reason to see whether this payment scheme can be terminated because one then actually gets to this cooperation without having to have that kind of financial incentive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1682	I think it is incredibly unlikely that the Health Minister, who is sitting in his seventh year, finds municipal liability for patients who are ready-to- print problematic. He's had plenty of time to watch that. In the health community, which is now the Minister of Health's solution to the lack of interaction, hospitals and municipalities will meet at the right level, says the Minister of Health. What does the Minister of Health think is the right level between the hospital and the municipality when an older lady with e.g. hip fractures and several other diseases are to be returned to their home? What is the correct level for interaction? How should the patient get the best offer of today's laws and regulations, and how should the health communities do better for this lady?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1687	The health communities should do better for that lady simply because the municipalities and hospitals then have both common plans and common understanding of what is right to do in such a situation. Not least if there is a mistake, as in this case, those responsible meet at the right level and discuss how to avoid it happening in the future. I have said very clearly that sending elderly patients with nursing needs at home in the middle of the night is totally unacceptable, both for the patient's sake and in the interest of the service that may receive the individual patient. Norwegian nursing homes are not staffed to receive patients in the middle of the night. The hospitals know that, the municipalities know that, and that's why it's an unacceptable practice. That's exactly what's at the heart of this. We have to get into a commitment cooperation on what's best for the patient. It must not be allowed to get the impression that the best thing for patients is to stay in hospital for a long time. On the contrary – it is bad both for the patient and for the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1694	After all, good practice has been tried for patients who need a lot of follow-up even when they have completed specialised treatment at the hospital. Already in 2007, a doctorate at Saupstad in Trondheim had much of the knowledge base for the interaction reform at the time. Why has the Minister of Health and the Government not provided better facilities for this type of intermediate half-line service, where there is more competence and greater preparedness for the elderly who have a so-called labyrinth disease state? They can quickly get worse, they can quickly get additional complications, and they need a different capacity and competence than what very many municipalities are able to offer them. There has been no initiative as long as the Minister of Health has been sitting in the chair, to bring up these types of units, which we know have a good effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1699	If it was the case that the Workers' Party thought that the type of units had a very good effect, it is very strange that they did not include this as an instrument in the interaction reform, but rather chose to give priority to municipal emergency beds like what was to be built up in the municipalities. Our main response to the challenges posed by the interaction reform has been to do what was not done in advance, but which should have been done in advance, namely to build up both capacity and competence in the municipal health and care services. That's what the government's main strategy has been to build up the municipalities to be able to solve these new tasks, not least by investing in both increased staffing and more proper staffing. Through, inter alia: the training programmes that we have now funded by the State have therefore received basic, continuing and continuous training for over 80,000 people in municipal health and care services, while also a significant number of managers have received leadership training in order to better solve these tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1706	It is a history falsification, which the Minister of Health is now serving, because it was precisely district medical centres and several intermediate units that were in place and that were established around 2010, when the interaction reform was investigated and introduced by the Stortinget in 2012. I want to ask the Minister of Health: how many intermediate places and district medical units are established on his watch? This is a reinforced way of providing healthcare between hospitals and municipalities, as we know, providing the continuous security needed by these elderly, multi-sick patients. That is what has been researched, and that is the good result of it. So my question is, how many such units are set up on the watch of the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1711	Before the Council of State receives a reply, the President will point out that ‘history falsification’ has previously been referred to as a non-parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1716	It's even worse when it's not right. What is the case is that the main effort in the cooperation reform was to transfer large amounts from the hospitals to the municipalities that were to be used for, among others. building up inter-municipal and municipal emergency beds that had the capacity to receive patients instead of sending them into hospitals. They have also done so in large monn. The use of these beds was relatively small at first, but fortunately increased gradually. Because that's a good solution – many patients don't have to be sent to the hospital, they can be put into a municipal emergency bed and get their clearance there. Most people are also sent home again and are not allowed to proceed to the hospital. It is one of the good things about the interaction reform that this kind of offer was established. Then there has been a need to increase the overall competence of municipal health and care services, and there has been a clear commitment by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1721	After all, the National Audit Office has pointed out that the interaction reform was not followed up under this government and that it was not in place. I have a question, because there are several things that give cause for concern. One thing is the night transport, which VG has demonstrated to a large extent. The NRK showed that there were major problems with the other patient transport, which takes place during the day, with long waiting lists for taxis, waiting for aircraft in the north, etc. – unworthy transports there too. There was also an article in the VG now before Christmas that it not only applies to night transports, but there are many unfortunate, unworthy movements across and across the final phase of life. It seems that the Council of State does not control this important part of the health service, and that there is media that must tell us in the opposition what is actually the reality. What could the government have done to gain this knowledge before?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1728	What the representative deals with in patient transport in general is something that has been addressed on several occasions. Very often, the type of challenges associated with, for example: the phase-in of new tenders and new operators. But it is important that one also has good transport arrangements. One of the objectives of the 2020 mission for precisely avoiding night-time transport is to look at building up another type of day-to-day transport capacity that does not depend on, for example: ambulance transport. Because it is clear that in the daytime, when there are many emergencies, ambulances must always give priority to what is most urgent. This is probably some of the explanation that some of the more ordinary transport operations are shifted to evening and night time. But it's not an excuse. Then one has to build up another type of capacity – as we do, for example. have seen what is called the white cars, which then have the ability to transport patients without necessarily needing ambulance capacity to do so – as part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1733	The Government’s response states that the Health Directorate is now to ‘identify what has been wanted by the printing process’ and that one needs mandatory cooperation. But this is already legal. Section 6-2 of the Law on Municipal Health and Care Services states that cooperation agreements should contain guidelines for ready-to-print patients and outsourcing, and Section 3-15 of the Special Health Services Act also provides that hospitals should inform the municipalities in good time and prepare them to be outsourced in cooperation with the parties to the debt. These are legal requirements, which are the strongest form of governance, which apparently have not been followed up by this government. How can a person then believe that a new arrangement should do things better when a law has not had any consequence under this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1745	No, that's why this investigation is not the only answer we have to this challenge either. The first is the specific assignment given, but the second is the basic answer, namely the establishment of the health communities in cooperation with the municipalities and the agreement between the government and the KS. This is what will work in practice, namely that the municipalities and hospitals see that they have a common responsibility for healthcare, and do not push that responsibility back and forth between themselves. But I think that the representative's posts were a very good response to her own proposal, namely to regulate night transports too – and a bunch of other proposals that the representative makes in this room to regulate most of the health care in the least detail, when experience is that legislating is not necessarily what leads to a change in the service. It's actually organizing the service in new ways and working in new ways. So it was a strong and good contribution to the representative's own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1752	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1759	There is a follow-up to the last input of the Council of State in the debate. He spends a lot of time on everything we require to be legalised, and that is directly – what can I say from this pulpit – that is not right. We don't propose in this room today that one should legitimize it by printing. That's what I said in my post: it's already legal, so we don't have to promise it again. My criticism is of why the government does not ensure that what is a legal duty for health professionals today is followed up in practice. We're not proposing new lawmaking today. When the Council of State says we're proposing a bunch of laws otherwise, he might want to come and tell us what specific he's looking for, because otherwise I thought it would be a very special form of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1768	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1785	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1792	The Health and Welfare Committee has examined a proposal for a representative on related policies. The government is working on a related strategy and will follow up the strategy with an action plan. The strategy is expected to take a holistic view of the situation of relatives and to highlight key areas of life of relatives, including health, social and economic links. The Health and Welfare Committee will stress that relatives are an important resource, both for their immediate and for society. It is important to support and relieve the relatives so that they can take care of their own health and have the opportunity to combine professional and social life with care for their loved ones. There are 800,000 relatives in Norway today. They are making an invaluable effort, and this is an important area in which to find good solutions. I would like to present the Committee's position on this point. For the Progress Party, we are not going to support any of the resolved proposals in the matter, simply because we are waiting for the government to complete the work on the related strategy and action plan, which the Progress Party started when we were part of the government. We have great expectations of this work and are looking forward to a major debate on this in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1801	I would like to begin by commending the representative proposal because it strengthens the attention around being a relative. Most of us will experience being related sometime during life. Actually, it's nice to be able to set up, nice to know that one means something to someone, but it can be challenging to be able to take care of yourself in a situation that is related to people with a strong need for help. Then, as a society, we have an obligation to meet the needs of the relatives, so that they themselves do not end up facing health challenges. We as society must also take into account that relatives are at different ages and different stages of life. Many dependants themselves are very old and therefore, for example, physical limitations, but also those at the beginning of life, may experience a heavy burden on themselves as relatives. Children who become related to their own parents, or to their siblings, must have special attention. We have to understand why the concentration is failing in school, and we have to follow up as a society. Otherwise, I want to bring forward two groups of relatives who may face extra big challenges, and it's related to addicts and relatives of people with dementia. Being a relative to someone with a drug addiction can be very challenging. It gives you an uncertain everyday life, where you may be sweating every time the phone rings, where, for example, a phone is ringing. risks getting unknown people on the door from criminal environments because the sister or son has unsolved debts. I myself have had visits by people in my office who have been dissatisfied because of the strain it is. It's bad for the quality of life of the individual, and it's expensive for society. They call for easier access to coordinated assistance. We are now facing a drug reform with targets of help rather than punishment. Russ reform should also become a treatment reform, which in turn makes everyday life a little simpler and safer and gives them the opportunity to lower their shoulders a little. Finally, I want to talk about relatives to people with dementia, relatives who, a little after a while, lose the one they're happy with. The red-green government set in motion a great deal of effort in day-to-day activities for people with dementia. From the New Year, the blue government has removed the state grant to these places. From my area, East-Agder, I am now informed that the Inn on tunet offers are being dropped. In Right-Handed Grimstad, there is a torch train because it has to be drastically reduced by a very popular daily activity offer there, as the funding is now significantly weakened. The working party has been constantly opposed to the removal of this State grant scheme for these day-to-day activities. The relief that day-time activities places give to people with dementia can be exactly what makes a person able to make everyday life go wild. I therefore hope the Council of State listens to the mountain-wet rule 'Turn in time, there is no shame in turning'. It would be a good handshake for the relatives of this group. With that I will address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1818	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1823	The health and care services would not have walked around if we had not cared about us. According to Family Alliance figures, today there are 800,000 relatives in Norway. It's for the spouse who takes care of his wife, who's got dementia. That's for the sister of the addict. It's up to the relatives of the seriously mentally ill. It is for parents who care for their severely disabled child. They do care equivalent to 110 000 annual works – about the same size as the efforts of the public. Relatives to people with high needs for care do a great job. What is incomprehensible is that the policies of the people are still so absent in the political change of words. From studies with relatives we know that up to 50 pst. of the related developmental health problems. Supervision shows that municipalities do not assess the care burden or the need for relief of dependants. Studies show that relatives are concerned that they are not getting enough help from the public. They are concerned about their own health and economy and the stress of coping with both the job and the care role. We can't have it that way. Health care benefits – formerly provided – were introduced in 1988. Today we see that the scheme does not work as it should. According to the 2017 Family Survey, most dependants do not receive any kind of financial compensation. There is wide variation between municipalities in the practice of the scheme, and there is great disparity in the payment and calculation of hours. In particular, there is feedback that parents of disabled children experience the situation as random and unfair. This shows the need for a new and better policy of relatives. The centre party has put forward proposals for the Stortinget on this very point. Today, we propose a real strengthening of the care aid scheme. We will give municipalities the obligation to offer relatives an agreement on a permanent contact person, the right to relief, training, holidays and measures to take care of their health. We propose a national escalation plan for the development of daytime activities and short-term rest periods, including to ensure relief and security for the relatives. Following a recent investigation by the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, six out of ten who were asked for help and support from volunteers replied. The study showed that every week, on average, Norway uses 7.6 hours to help a close relative. It shows that there are many people who want to receive help, and there are many volunteers who actually help – on average, one whole working day of the week. In the future, it will become even more important to ensure that relatives better justice and support. It will cost the state money, but it will be much more expensive to leave. With that, I take up the suggestions the Center Party has with SV in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1840	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1845	Citizens should not be responsible for having a good health service in Norway, but they should be given better help than at present. I know that, more than before, since I've been very sick, and I needed help from my whole family. I lost my language. I practiced Norwegian with my mother and stepfather. I practiced English with my father and my voicer. My husband, Sebastian, helped me all the time. I was lucky to have them, and my parents are retired, so they could spend time on me. But not all are as lucky as I am. Citizens should not be responsible for the entire health policy; we should help them more than now. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State wrote: ‘This is not the time for the field escalation plans, but for the continuation of a work that has been in progress for many years.’ SV disagrees very much with this statement from the Council of State. We know that some municipalities help people with good care benefits, but it is very different from the municipality in which they live. SV believes that we should have a national guideline for granting and measuring care benefits. It is sad that the right parties and the Workers' Party have said that they will vote against this proposal from the Centre Party and SV. In the draft budget, SV proposed to spend more than 5 billion. kr. We need better policies. Now I'm a visitor's friend to Jan Wessel Bjørlin. He lives in a nursing home, and he needed a conversation partner and a friend. He has taught me to understand what it is to be old and live in a nursing home. Older and sick should live their whole lives, not just be alive. My visitor friend, Jan, said that there are no activities in the department during the day; nothing has been added. The government has cut and cut for tax cuts to the kingdoms of Norway. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV propose an escalation plan for the development of day activities and short-term stays. It's so important for the elderly, but also for the relatives, because it can relieve them. SV hopes that the other parties will vote in favour of our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1863	It is said here that it is sad that we do not want to support the proposals. It's a rather eye-catching claim, all the time Right is the only party that has its own chapter on relatives in its big business, and the Right took the initiative to put in place a family strategy. That work is in progress. Something was delayed. Former Councillor Listhaug did not put it forward until she left, but now the Minister of Health has taken care of it. So it's pretty strong words against the party that actually initiated this before the last big shot. It's very good in the proposals that are coming, and I'm very pleased with the commitment of relatives. There is a field I experience that the parties on the Stortinget are united about. It's not okay that people have so much relative stress that they get sick. We have to take care of that. Then we have to remember that the relatives are so much more than the relatives of the demente, it's related to people with all sorts of diseases. Some of those who struggle most are related to patients who have mental health challenges and drug problems, and within that area the government has really done a job. Day activities places have been an important investment for the government, and claims like we've cut, cut and cut, become a little pointless when you look at what's actually done. The number of daily activity locations has increased, increased, and increased under this government. I think this debate is worth talking more about what we're going to do to help them, instead of getting on with a lot of empty rhetoric. I'm looking forward to the plan coming. I am excited about what the Minister of Health, who is now also the Minister of the Elderly, will do. I expect an offensive plan, and I also expect it to be something we can work on, because we can't have it this way in Norway that people get sick by looking after them they're most happy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1874	I would like to thank the proposers for making proposals on a subject that may be too small to talk about – where I fully agree with the representative Toppe – in the public change of words, namely the relatives. We say very often, and it's also in the committee's attitude, that we view relatives as a resource for the family and society. But very often we stop there, and then we don't see that even relatives are a group that very often undertakes such huge tasks that they wear themselves out completely. This is a fact. I am thinking in particular of a group of relatives who are part of the 800,000 relatives, namely children and young people. Here we have children and young people who are related to parents who are not only struggling with somatic diseases but who are also struggling with intoxication and psychiatry. This is a group that very often assumes great responsibilities that they should not have. It is said that the government is now working on a related strategy, which is to be followed up by an action plan. I'm looking forward to it coming. I hope in particular that this group of relatives, that is, children and young people, is given great attention in this strategy and this plan, because here we have a group of people who have often had to take on a great responsibility, for which we, as a large community, must be involved and bear the burden. I look forward to both the strategy and the action plan, and it is precisely because the government is working on such a strategy and an action plan that we are not voting for the opposition's proposal today. I look forward to having a broader debate on this issue when the strategy and action plan are completed. But as I said, I especially hope this group, children and young people who are related, are given great attention, because they really deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1885	There will then be a pause in the debate on case No. 8 to go to voting on the debated issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1897	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1909	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Runar Seestad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4-7, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party It is voted on by the Centre's 4-7 proposals. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the structure of the predatory game subjects is stable and that the proposal to transfer the final power of decision in complaints in the predatory game field to an independent national appeal subject is removed.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests that high inbreeding rates be used as an independent criterion for the harvesting of wolves and that access to protection of wolves from management due to ‘genetic importance’ be severely tightened.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to look at the possibility of changing the predatory game regulation in view of regular quota hunting on wolves when the stock target is reached and the strain is viable.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the stockpiles of wolves to be modified to include individuals, couples and family groups of wolves who have not bred, so that the overall predation pressure appears and a roof is set.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e1957	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that a system of management can be followed up in the development of all established wolves’ viruses, as well as their social consequences, so that all the necessary evidence is available as a basis for decisions by predators’.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to set a time limit within which the Ministry’s review procedure should be completed, so that the review procedure is completed no later than one month before the hunting start.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting immediate follow-up of the decision of the robbers to grant a licence to the wolves in the banks of the Manken and Rømskog so that the killing can take place during the current period of the licence. The period of licensing shall be extended, if necessary, so that those wolf flocks are removed.’;» Red has notified support of the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2301	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2311	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2323	During the debate, Mr F. Christensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an appropriate review of the impact of Norwegian development and assistance policies on the changing global landscape, including as an influence tool in multilateral organisations and in relation to private investment.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2529	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-8, by Nicholas Wilkinson of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-8, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks that the NBTS of the Rikshospitalet should not have a monopoly on the treatment of persons with sexual sinchongruens.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new regional investigation team to be developed in cooperation with other professional communities with competence in gender dysphoria/sexinongruens, regardless of NBTS.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for patients with sexual sinongruness to be guaranteed the right to a reassessment by an independent body, in line with the Patient and User Rights Act.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate measures to reduce the waiting time in public hospitals and in the municipalities for treatment provision for persons with sexual sincongruence.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess Scandinavian cooperation for the coordination of the offer of surgery on genital organs, with a view to ensuring good quality through a larger volume of treatment.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2581	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the treatment offered to persons with sexual incontinence is made more accessible and decentralised to the relevant professional environment and that hormonal treatment and breast surgery are offered in several places.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a long-term study to investigate and propose evidence-based and good treatment for non-binary individuals.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2612	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a life-rate and quality of life survey for persons with sex encephalocytosis who have been treated, are under treatment, are under assessment, or have been refused treatment. The government is asking the government to propose measures to improve living conditions and quality of life in these groups.’ The left has indicated support for the configuration. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2689	The size will then continue to deal with case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2694	When a person gets sick, the closest ones are also affected. 800,000 people are relatives at all times. The care efforts of relatives are of major social importance and are estimated to account for approximately 136,000 annual works. The government wants to raise the situation of the relatives, and we are now working on developing our own related strategy. The strategy shall address all relatives – irrespective of the diagnosis of users. We will talk about challenges and needs related to health, work relationships and the economy, and look at how we can make it easier to be related. The government will present the strategy and action plan together during the spring of 2020. Relatives are also at the heart of the work on Life throughout their lives and the egalitarian reform. We've received over 300 recordings of the strategy. Despite the fact that relatives are different and in different situations, there are also many common features of the recordings. For example, relatives want: more information on how best to support and help. Many also need more support and relief. Recordings will form the basis for further work on designing solutions and actions in the future. We've already done a lot. In 2017, a new provision was introduced in the Health and Care Services Act, which brings together and clarifies the responsibilities of municipalities towards those who have a particularly burdensome care job. In this respect, we made a thorough assessment of the care aid scheme. This provision now provides for a flexible related aid based on the individual needs of the dependants. Good activity offers are important for the relief of relatives and make it easier for relatives to discharge their own obligations, e.g.: own work. The government has been working on the development of this service provision for a long time. The development of the daily activity offer has been among the main initiatives in the Demen Plan 2015 and in the Demen Plan 2020 and is now a legally required task. The efforts of relatives are of great social importance. It is important that this informal care persists. At the same time, care should not be taken by relatives to the extent that they become worn out or fall out of work. One must design solutions that support and relieve relatives while at the same time helping them to live a good life, maintain their own health and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2707	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2712	Relatives to drug addicts often face a very demanding situation. Yesterday in the Agderpost you could read about a mother who now has to meet her son in court. She had tried to get help to get the son to detoxify, but she met closed doors and ended up having to take responsibility for the detoxification itself – which in turn led to him becoming violent and she had to seek refuge with a neighbor. The council pointed out in its statement that relatives too should be able to live a good life. I have met other relatives who have told me that it was so stressful to live in a situation with a drug addict, that they have ended up being illiterate. We are now faced with a Russian reform which initially has broad support in Stortinget. In this respect, will the Council of State also ensure that we have a treatment reform that can make the daily lives of addicts to drug addicts simpler? And how will he make concrete everyday life easier for relatives of addicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2719	The work supported by relatives is just part of both the strategy and the action plan that we are going to present before the summer. This support is independent of the diagnosis of the user and will, of course, include relatives of people with drug dependence. With regard to the representative dealing with treatment provision, there is something we are working on continuously and that has also given good results in terms of both a significantly greater reduction in waiting time for treatment for drug dependence and a greater freedom and choice between different services. The greatest promise has been made in municipalities for the development of offers for both work and activity and health follow-up. But the job isn't done yet. We are still in the escalation plan, and the offer will be further developed. It is also, of course, that the relatives are always concerned that their closest ones will get good help and treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2726	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State also stated in its statement that good activity offers are important. A field where the Council of State acted before the action plan was presented relates to day-time activities for people with dementia. The government and the Advance Party have removed the state subsidy from the new year. In my former state, now the Aust-Agder constituency, it is now reported that daily activities are offered for people with dementia. And in Right-Road Grimstad they recently arranged a torch because you can see it being dramatically cut around important daily activities in the municipality. What does Höie think when that kind of feedback comes as a consequence of the government's changed policy in this field? Daily activity offers are a very important relief for very many relatives. What action will the Council of State now take to avoid a reduction in day-to-day activities when an overall increase has agreed that this should be legislated? If so, is he willing to turn back now as the Progress Party has left the post as Minister for Older People?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2733	It is not that the government has cut off support for day-to-day activities, but the money that the municipalities have been allocated to this has now been transferred to the municipalities, while the municipalities have now been given – as the representative was – a legal mandate to offer day-to-day activities. This means that this should be an ordinary part of the municipality's offer, after many years have not been required by law to have daily services, but a state-designated scheme that has intended to prepare the municipalities for the legal requirement that now entered into force. Now it is a legal requirement for municipalities to have a daily activity offer for their citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2738	I thank you for your answer. What we've experienced about day-time activities for people with dementia, at least in my state, is that the municipalities and places where people have been good at putting that kind of offer, now get lower transfers. Take the starting point in Grimstad Municipality, which is run by the Right and the Advance Party politically: they have lost 4 million. kr. There, political leadership has chosen not to compensate for the loss of income, resulting in a dramatic reduction in funding for day-time activities, as at the Eyegarden Institute. What does the Council of State say to its local politicians in Grimstad about this situation, and does he agree that it ends up punishing the municipalities that have been nice and early out there, by making a worse transfer of the framework grant than those who have not received a proper daily activity offer in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2745	What I'm saying to the municipalities is that they should have a daily activity offer, and that's why we have a legal requirement to do this. Of course, we expect the municipalities to follow it up. However, it may not be that the Workers' Party believes that every time the State introduces an earmarked grant in order to start building up an offer in the municipalities, everything in the earmarked grant shall be liquidated and introduced into the framework. In that case, we can actually wind up municipal autonomy and go into what other parties think, namely, that this should be a government-funded and run task that the municipalities really only manage. I have not realized that is the view of the Workers' Party. That means that when we have earmarked schemes, we have them in a build-up phase, and then we phase it into the municipal framework. Some of the challenges with earmarked schemes are precisely what the representative addresses, that when they are phased out, the municipalities that have used them will often come out worse financially than those that have not done anything, and thus experience it as a punishment. It should be an important reminder that the introduction of earmarked schemes often has a downside such as: the bulk of the population has sometimes overlooked the importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2754	I thank you again for the answer. Now it's not like the Workers' Party has said that this scheme should last forever, but it's not more than a year since the Stortinget increased the grant rate for these kinds of daytime activities because you didn't get as far as you were supposed to. Then it's a little strange to me that one suddenly chooses to reduce, remove the entire grant scheme without ensuring that at least those who had started are guaranteed proper funding in the future, so that they don't end up laying down the places they built after all. Does the Council of State agree that there has been something unpredictable about the scheme and the winding-up of the grant scheme that has now been seen, and does he also agree that we need a further expansion of the number of day-to-day activities places, and that we should therefore follow closely what is happening now? It's not just about the number, but it's also about providing good quality in the day-time activities that you want. Thus, lawmaking is one thing, but something else is to afford to be able to make a good offer within the scheme with day-to-day activities in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2762	The winding-up of the earmarked grant has not been unpredictable for the municipalities. It has been announced in good time that it should be done at the same time as the law. This is a very old system. Some of the main challenges of this scheme have been that the municipalities have not used it. Substantial funds have been provided each year to establish day-to-day activities, government funds that municipalities have not applied for. Every year this money has been withdrawn because the municipalities have simply not used it. It has not been lacking in the government's willingness to invest in the establishment of day-to-day activities, but many municipalities have failed to apply for the scheme. That's some reason why we're taking the next step, when I say this is no longer a choice. Now it's a legal requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2767	There are many relatives – 800,000. They do an incredibly large job – 136 000 annual works, as the Council of State said. It's safe, it's good quality, it's good social economy, and the Senter Party will improve conditions. The representative of Sveinung Stensland said that the Right had a related strategy in his major election program. It's good to have a strategy. A strategy is a description of a common reality of the situation in which you live. My question is, what in the proposals of the Central Party is in conflict with the Reality of Right when it comes to the need to improve the situation of the relatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2772	I understand that the representative of Stensland said, not that the Right had a strategy in his big-time election program, but a separate chapter on relatives that is important and contains many points. Many of those points have continued on the government platform, which we are now working on implementing. The background, as I see it, to the fact that the government parties today are voting down the proposal of the Central Party, is that this is a proposal for a representative that has been promoted after one is aware that the government is working on a strategy – but not just with a strategy, also with an action plan for related policies. It is then quite common that the government parties do not vote in favour of the opposition's proposal, when you know that the government is working on exactly the areas that are being proposed. It is a well-known strategy for many opposition parties to promote representative proposals in areas where one knows that the government has ongoing work, as the Central Party quite often does.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2777	It was the opposition that criticized the red-green government that it could not be on the opposition's proposal when there was no mistake about those proposals. Here we have not been told what is common sense of reality between the proposal of the Senter Party and what the government is obviously working on now. We're back to the opposition's proposal to be reconciled, and it's sad to experience. My next questions are: Will the related strategy and action plan with which the government will come be submitted for co-treatment? And what is it in the proposal of the Central Party that the Council of States can now see is contrary to the view of the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2784	Neither the strategy nor the action plan will be presented to the Stortinget. It is the government’s strategy and action plan, but the follow-up to the strategy and action plan, for example. in cases where appropriations are required, the Storting will be submitted to the Authority. Where legislative changes are required, this will be presented to the Stortinget in the usual way. I am not going to do any evaluation of the proposal of the Centre Party. I think that is very good in this proposal for a representative, which is just addressing the challenges that people are facing today. However, there is no reason for government parties to vote in favour of an opposition proposal in areas where government already has ongoing work and will present its own action plan and strategy. It has not only been this government and the politics of these government parties, which the representative had in mind, it has been common under changing governments to deal with proposals that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2791	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2798	It was interesting to hear the last response of the Council of State. It is as I feared, that neither the strategy nor the action plan will be presented to the Stortinget. Thus, Stortinget is cut off from taking an overall assessment of the situation of its relatives. After sitting and listening to the discussion now: Many of those who make up the majority of the government parties gave the impression that this was something expected to come to the Storting, so that the Storting could treat it. But now the Council of State says, no, this is an internal plan that the government is working on, and then the government comes up with a simple proposal for the Stortinget later. This is an important matter for the Center Party. The Progress Party, with former Senior Minister Listhaug, wanted to present a related strategy in 2019. There was nothing wrong, so Sylvi Listhaug did very little in the important post for the situation of the elderly. As the person responsible for labour and social policy in the Central Party, it is also important, from my point of view, that one should address the situation of the elderly, because there are many of the relatives who are linked to the need for a warm hand for older people. The relatives make an invaluable effort, not only for old people, but also for young people who need help. The Centre Party has therefore put forward proposals for a real strengthening of the care aid scheme in the municipalities because, as I said, it provides a safe and qualitatively good and reasonable offer. We are not in favour of a hard-handed management of this, but we are in favour of introducing national allocation guidelines, i.e. criteria of duration and scope, as well as guidelines for measuring welfare benefits, which are based on hours and hourly payment rates to be used. So it's important for the Center Party to keep the judgement while providing clearer national guidelines so that it makes it easier for both parties to practice it all. The centre party is also in favour of establishing cooperation agreements between the relatives and the municipalities, which are linked to regular and open dialogue. This is something that all its relatives experience the need for – that they have contact with the public, so that they can be better assisted. Daytime activities and short-stay relief are usually central to us. Where one is at home as far as possible, one in many cases is pushed beyond the proper limits, and unloading and day-time activities are therefore very important. It is also necessary to strengthen the possibilities of leave of the family members. It is important that employers are aware of this and put in temporary workers to cover up the relatives in situations where they cannot continue their work for a shorter period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2811	Just to respond to the disappointment of the representative Lundtägen that this is the government's strategy and the government's plan, and this is not a matter that comes naturally to the Stortinget, I would like to say that there are many ways to raise such a debate. I commended the representative Toppe for raising this debate in Stortinget today, and I agreed with the representative Toppe that what has to do with relatives deserves a broader debate. There's nothing wrong with that debate because we can have in Stortinget again. The opposition has every opportunity to promote a Document 8 proposal. I also think it would be natural when the government has completed its work, that the government parties, for example. invites you to an interpellation debate, as we see today, where the party leader of the Centre Party will have an interpellation debate in the Chamber with the Minister for Transport. There are many opportunities for us to discuss the situation of relatives again in Norway. At least it shall not be on the government parties to hold such a debate here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2816	Yes, that was perhaps exactly what the representative Bekkevold said, which made me have my post on that point. The representative praised the fact that the Central Party raised the debate here, and I got the impression that the Christian People's Party wanted to have a wide discussion. I understand from the comments of the representative that there are different assessments among the government parties around that point. I respect it. But I understand the intervention of the representative Bekkevold so that if this matter is to be dealt with in a broad and adequate way, it is today that the opposition must raise the debate. Of course, one can then take it in an interpellation debate, but I would rather say that it should be included in a debate on proposals, that we can have it concretely, and therefore obligating. That is what is needed — a commitment to improve the situation of the relatives. There are 800,000 people who represent an incredible labour resource for a qualitatively good supply, and then we have to spend time on it and be concrete. It's the Center Party's assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2827	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2848	Positions and political responsibilities are not an end in themselves. They are a means – a means to promote interests and values and to have political impact on society and our country. Any decision in the Storting or in the government – it may seem so little when you sit in your office or in the committee – is affected by many people’s lives being changed by it. Politics is at last about yours and my life, people's lives and people's workdays. The Progress Party had clear political projects in the six-and-a-half years they guided Norwegian transport policy and had the Minister for Transport. They used the position actively to advance their affairs. Last week we saw the consequences of the Progress Party's policy on the short-distance network, with Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance and with a Minister of Transport from the same party: the short-distance network has become more demanding to operate due to a faulty charging policy. I'm not sure if it was intentional on the part of the Progress Party, but they've been warned, they've implemented it, and we're now seeing the consequences. The split of Norwegian railways has been 100 pst. intended on the part of the Party of Presidents. The Advance Party and the Right's tendering policy were a clear objective, and now we see the consequences. Who is the target of the Progress Party's policy in this area? Well, it's the ladies that wash the train on the Nordlandsbanen, like Wenche Bye of 57 years, who had worked as a cleaner on the Nordlandsbanen for 40 years and were kicked. Due to the fragmentation policy and the tendering policy, it is those who initially serve the least and who have the most demanding working day, who lose their jobs. It should be saved on the low-paid, while the number of Norwegian railway directors has never been higher, and there has never been a higher level of remuneration for managers. Today early, when I was on my way here to discuss the taxi industry, I took the train. Then I met the conductor, and what had happened to his retirement? Well, it had been cut. It's classic Progress Party policy: The pension for those who work on the train is cut, while the director's wages shoot in the weather. But now Knut Arild Hareide has become State Council. I know he has a lot of good values, and I don't think he's so excited that Wenche Bye in 57 years loses his job. Another very important part of what Knut Arild Hareide has been responsible for is the flexible part of Norwegian public transport: the taxi industry. It is a very important industry for the country, and it is an industry that is always everywhere. Wherever you are in Norway, and almost at any time, you get hold of a taxi – thanks to a deliberate policy that has led to predictability of the industry. It's school transport for our children, it's sick transport to get older people transported to hospitals, it's transport the wheelchair user depends on getting out of his home to participate in social activities or get to work. It is a standby around the clock throughout Norway thanks to all the skilled taxi drivers and taxi owners we have in our country. I tickle there are quite a number here in the hall who have traveled by the first plane, and who have called a taxi centre, and they have had to get up at noon. 04–05 in the morning to come and pick you up. Some people may have had a good time in the evening – I am not saying that it is the most important social assignment for the taxi industry, but it is also important – and it has been picked up because you could not take the car. In total, the taxi industry has a very important social function, both for those for whom this is absolutely necessary, and to make everyday life and social life go up. The overall readiness to have a nationwide taxi network is enormous. But let's look at the taxi industry, which is so important: how has industry profitability been? It's been under pressure over time. There have been too many permissions, there has been an over-establishment. In this town it's a huge waiting time. Many good people spend a lot of their time just standing and waiting. We have also had a tendering policy that has pushed prices too hard, and that has made them approx. 14,000 people working in the taxi industry have had a more and more demanding working day, longer and longer days, lower and lower earnings and a low annual income. What is the government's answer to the approx. 14,000 who work in this industry? What was the response of the Progress Party to the approx. 14,000? Well, that was the time's fee jump for Norwegian taxi industry. The VAT increased from 8 pst. to 12 pst. - So it's a 50 pst. increase of VAT. That was the first measure the Progress Party and the rest of the government came to punish Norwegian taxi industry. That's probably not why they did it, but they did it at least – increased VAT from 8 pst. to 12 pst. Then I experienced one more thing that I didn't think was possible. If we take handicappataxi as an example, the government, with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport of the Progress Party, increased the charges on, for example. a Volkswagen Caravelle, adapted to a disabled user, from SEK 200 000 in 2018 to SEK 436 888 in 2019. The fees charged by a Mercedes Sprinter, adapted to wheelchair users, increased from NOK 219 000 in 2018 to NOK 467 000 in 2019. So there's a fee jump on many taxis of over 100 pst. overnight. The government was also rude enough to call it a green shift. This is such an abuse of that word that there's almost no way to believe, because they did it to get money. It was charged to liberalise the taxi industry. But what are the consequences? Well, it becomes more difficult for Norwegian taxi owners and Norwegian taxi operators to buy new cars that can carry disabled people and people with reduced mobility around our country. It's very, very unwise. That was the first point – the time’s fee jump for Norwegian taxi industry and especially high fees jump for cars adapted to wheelchair users. I don't understand that a government council from the Christian People's Party thinks it's the right priority that especially disabled people should have the fee shop they've had. Action number two is the release and liberalisation of the entire policy. What is the consequence of the release which has now been notified and which is to be introduced from 1 July? Well, it's getting harder to run taxis in the countryside, because the license system we have today is not going to have, and you don't want that duty. It's going to be even harder to be a driver in town, because it's going to be an over-establishment because anyone who wants can start, for example. at the most important times. The number regulation and the obligation to operate are lifted. One weakens the requirement to mark the taxis, one removes the requirement for a roof lamp, even though the police have been crystal clear that it is very unwise to make such a change. You remove the requirement to connect to a taxi centre, which is very important in order to have an offer of taxis for all the days of the day, and to call the central office and get that offer. I could still do that. I hope Councillor Hareide has read the hearing opinions. Which groups are most opposed? There are groups that the Christian People's Party often promises. The Joint Organisation of disabled people is strongly opposed to this change in Norwegian taxi policy because they see that it can be more difficult to get taxis at all times of the day. The disabled and the Blind Alliance, all the related organisations for those who really need the taxi industry, are strongly opposed to the change. The police have warned of the change in removing the roof lamps. Tax East has warned against it. The vast majority of hearing bodies are very, very critical. It is therefore a little hope that the most ideological in the Progress Party has now left the Ministry of Transport, because they have had a lot of personal prestige in this release. I don't think they've even read the hearing statements. Now we've got a new government council, which I know is committed to decent working conditions for people, who are engaged when a family father has to drive 14-15 hours to get an annual salary, who is committed to getting a wheelchair taxi, a wheelchair taxi, who wants an orderly working life, who usually seems to be wise to listen to the police when they come with their warnings, and tricked to listen to the Skatt East and other professionals who say that this is a mistake, and that it's not properly thought out. My appeal to the Hareide Council is that he says what he really means, that he uses his position to get a pass on values. Because the position is not a goal in itself – it is a means of making people's everyday lives better, not worse. The current policy towards Norwegian taxi industry is worse for the 14 000 who work there, and for all those who need taxis every day, everywhere, always, around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2882	I can promise the representative Battle Force Vedum that I will say that I mean it. I thought the article from Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum was good. It actually invited us to an even wider debate than we have received in the actual interpellation. In the interpellation, the representative Slagvold Vedum specifically asks about the regulation of the taxi industry, so I intend to limit myself to just that, because we are now getting a big change in the taxi market from 1 July 2020. In the spring of 2019, a proposal was submitted to Stortinget, which meant a major reform of the taxi market. The size adopted the proposed legislative changes in June 2019. And yes, I have come in as a new Minister of Transport, and I can tell Stortinget that I will of course follow up the decision to raise this issue from June last year. However, we must follow closely the developments in the taxi market in the future, and we must help to find solutions to the challenges that may arise within the current framework. It is natural that reforms create both commitment and debate, and we are foreordained that challenges may arise in connection with the changes adopted. I am therefore pleased with the possibility offered by the representative and interpellanten Schlagsvold Vedum to discuss this matter in the Stortinget today. I am committed to facilitating a well-functioning taxi market that provides even better provision for travellers throughout the country. The ice-cream industry is currently a highly regulated industry. There have been few changes in regulation in recent times, but the changes in society in the same period have been significant. Especially in recent years, new technologies have opened up new opportunities to provide taxi services. Over time, there are indications that the taxi market is not working optimally. The representative, Battle Violence Vedum, was also involved in this in his article. The innovation in the industry has been limited and the supply of taxis has been little adapted to the needs of customers. I can also refer to reports from both the Competition Authority and the Consumer Council, which have shown that the taxi market we have in Norway is working badly. Information on price and quality of taxi services is often not available to customers. Nearly half of the miles in the taxi industry are empty runs. Emptying leads to increased prices, longer working days, which was also pointed to by the representative Schlagsvold Vedum, and more pollution both in our cities and in our districts. One of the main causes of this system is the need to test taxis. The regulation of the number of permits combined with the obligation to operate makes it more difficult for the rightholders to adapt their supply to market demand. By removing the need tests, we are now making it possible for new players to establish themselves on the market. It is important to facilitate a good supply throughout the country. We are therefore opening up so that county councils can grant one-off rights in the districts when the market does not offer an adequate supply of taxis on commercial terms. This tool allows Norway to go further than the other Nordic countries in providing local authorities with tools to ensure a good taxi offer in the districts. Compared to today, the new rules provide greater flexibility for the rightholders by no longer having to keep the taxis in operation 24 hours a day, but can adapt the running to market demand. No changes to driver working conditions have been made; they will be continued as they are today. The other Nordic countries have abandoned the system of pilot piloting taxi licenses. Sweden did this already in the 1990s, Denmark lifted the needs tests on 1 January 2018 and Finland on 1 July 2018. In 2017, ESA provided a reasoned report that key parts of Norwegian taxi regulation are in breach of the EEA Agreement. So it wasn't an option not to do anything about this. However, there has been an important balance between lowering the barriers to establishment and, at the same time, making adequate demands on operators to ensure a good and serious industry. By eliminating the need for testing, we have removed the most important barrier of establishment in the industry. We have also removed the requirement to have a central link and the requirement that the taxi profession be the principal occupation of the rightholders. This gives them greater freedom to organize and operate the business in the way that they think is most appropriate. In order to ensure a serious industry, we have continued the requirement of a permit. The objective rights requirements have been adjusted to prevent unnecessary barriers to establishment. Important demands such as good conduct, adequate economy and establishment in Norway have been passed on. The requirement of professional competence is removed for the rightholders, but introduced for drivers, in order to ensure that they have sufficient competence to deal with different situations, such as: the transport of vulnerable groups. In order to ensure the safety of passengers and drivers, we have introduced a requirement for all taxi trips to be logged. This shall contribute, in particular, to passenger and driver safety and ensure that the police can follow-up of undesirable events afterwards. It has been important to ensure that the county has alternative mechanisms to ensure a good supply of taxis in the districts when the obligation to drive is removed as a result of the suspension of the need tests. We have opened up that the county councils can grant one-off rights under given conditions when the market does not offer an adequate supply of taxis on commercial terms. The demand for taxi services is highest in large cities. In large cities, there is a trend towards overcapacity in the supply of low demand and undercapacity at high demand. This is a long way from the fact that the need for testing and driving makes a dynamic adaptation of supply to demand difficult. New establishment will be a natural effect when the restricted market is now opened. I think there are several factors that argue that the market will stabilize after a certain period of time. Actors who do not adapt to the supply in line with the customer’s demand, whether it relates to quality, price, material standard, availability or service level, or who otherwise do not claim to compete, will not be competitive. Experience from other countries that have lifted the needs tests also shows that single-hour market re-establishment in central Europe has been temporary. We are aware that the changes in regulation can be different in the districts than in the cities. It has been an important consideration in the work on the regulatory changes to ensure a good taxi offer throughout the country. Today, the obligation to operate, which is part of the need tests, is the means by which the county authorities operate to ensure adequate taxiing in their counties. When the needs tests fail, we have been engaged in providing the county with an alternative tool to ensure a good taxi offer. The county may, where necessary, grant one-rights in municipalities with less than 20 000 inhabitants and a population density of less than 8 inhabitants per km 3. This makes it possible to award one-off dishes in 323 of the country's 356 municipalities. Thus, county councils have the possibility to buy taxi services, possibly combined with the grant of one-off rights. This gives you good flexibility. To sum up, the changes in the taxi regulation should contribute to a better market in the taxi industry and a better supply to the public throughout the country. It's true of both the people who live in the city and the people who live in the country. Of course, I want to follow up the decision to collapse, and in the light of the changes, which are extensive, I cannot ignore the fact that adjustments have to be made in the course of the process. I will follow closely in the development of the taxi market in the future. It is already indicated in the legislative proposal that changes should be evaluated after three years. I am concerned that we should have a regulation that ensures a good framework for the taxi industry, so that we get a satisfactory offer for the travellers. That's my main goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2921	It was a disappointing answer, for what was the answer, was that Hareide should continue what has been the line of the Progress Party in the taxi policy, without making any adjustments at all. Does the Council of State really think that there will be a better working day for the 14 000 who work in the industry? Does he think it is when the whole industry itself warns against it and believes that this release will make working life even more demanding, and even emphasizes that they think it is going to be even more empty driving, which the Council of State also addressed as a problem in its article? So the Council of State is talking about dynamic adjustment. It's typical honor words. What is dynamic adjustment? Well, that is to say, with the release policy to which it is now being added, if you have a nice car and do some action, you can drive into the Oslo Centre, for example. right at the times of the day when there is the most traffic, and take out the gain of it. What's the problem with that is that those who want it as a permanent way of life don't get any peaks, can't get higher earnings at any of the times of the day or at any time of the year. This makes the income base of those who want to have a family life and a predictable everyday life even more demanding. That's what's so sad about all the economic theory that's been running the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport in the last few years: You've forgotten people. How does it affect people, those who voted us in here? We're elected. This past week we've seen how it's hit the cleaners in the NSB. Wenche Bye, who loses his job after 40 years of cleaning trains – we will save her. While the top executives in Vy have received millions of wages, we're going to save on those who keep the trains clean. That's the consequence of economic theory and what sounds so nice with dynamic adaptation. The consequence is that those who are now running empty should have even more empty driving. The government council Hareide has to ask, who's going to get this better for? Of course, it'll be better for Uber. But is it going to be better for the disabled? The FFO, the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons, strongly warns against it. Is it going to be better for the blind? The blindfold warns against it in the strongest possible way. Is it going to be better for the disabled? The Disability League strongly warns against it. All of the people I initially believe are Hareide and many others have a commitment to, warn against it – but then you talk about dynamic adaptation. You also talk about some kind of anxiety for those who work in the industry. However, you hardly meet one taxi driver — if you take a taxi — who says that this is a wise step. Everyone's warning. Then there is also experience in the charging policy that has now been pursued. My appeal to the Council of State Hareide in the budget debate is that he makes sure that the fees go down, that he thinks thoroughly about and takes a new round of the entire taxi policy. Because among them it's said that one should fight for [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2934	There was talk time out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2939	The representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, was disappointed with the article. The size decided this a year ago, with a clear majority. I think these changes will lead to an improvement, but I'm also suggesting that there will be a discussion about the changes we are now implementing from 1 July. We have experience that when we implement reforms, there is often noise and attention. There is very little noise and attention now up against what we experienced as we discussed the smokenova. Then there was a much greater awareness of something that people after it have been shown to be happy with. It's not an example that necessarily makes a good deal of the change that's happening now, but I can refer to another example: when we changed the Post in Norway, we also modernised. It created significant noise and attention, but it was a change that many saw was right and necessary. I think that for just the industry we have now, it's described that it doesn't work in a good way, and we're forced to make changes to make it better. It is not really an option to leave it as it is today, when we know that regulation is currently in violation of parts of EEA law. So to do something, we had to do it. I thought I found a pretty good balance, as I said in my post. Yes, we'll discuss the possibility of establishment, and we'll not least give Norway a good chance. In 323 municipalities, if they so wish, they can establish a single right. It's a real possibility. We often talk about local democracy. There are a lot of Central Party politicians in our states who can look at the possibilities that are now coming. It could give some of the representatives of the Victim Vedum are concerned about, because there is a difference between the city and the country in this market. I experience that now when we look at this whole thing, we have found a balance. We let go of actors, but I also see that we are forced to follow this, and I expect that there will be debates on this topic in the future. But I can fully say that I believe that when we look at this after a certain period of time, we have got a better taxi market. As I started my post today, both the Competition Authority and the Consumer Council pointed to a lack of this. We see that the number of empty runs is significant, and the working hours of many drivers are demanding. I think the changes will result in an adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2948	When I hear Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum come with his description of reality, I think there are very few who recognize themselves. The reality description that everything is perfect, that it's so great, and that nothing is changeable at all, is completely crazy. There is a reason for this matter to come, and there is a need to make changes in this industry. It has been linked to drivers and taxi owners for too long, and the centres have been obliged to take them into their own centres if they did not want to. The removal of the obligation to be in a central position also gives the taxi operators the opportunity to opt out of the drivers they do not want. It's essentially a quality sign. I don't think the taxi companies or those who are going to drive taxis will now remove the advertising from their cars – why should they? Isn't it exactly in this situation that you want to look like a company of quality? I don't think it's like a taxi driver loses all inhibitions and all manner of folk because if he runs in a different kind of taxi than he did before. These are the people who are going to be in the industry -- most of them -- but some will not be there because they may simply not meet the demands of a modern society on a system. There have been high barriers to establishment and low competition, and the offer is not adapted to demand. And the price of taxis from Gardermoen to Oslo – I never take taxis, why would I do that? Fly train and bus: they are in competition with other collective services. It is not that these are subject to any increase in charges other than those in public transport. This is one way in which the state regulates the charges. It becomes too one-sided when you repeatedly hit the same disc in the table in this room. I wonder if that disc should be turned – it's beginning to be a while since the Progress Party went out of government. We now hear a strong criticism of a government council and a party that is no longer in government. There's agreement between what Knut Arild Hareide says, and what I should really say, because there's actually a lot of consensus in the bourgeois flock that something has to be done here, because it's not perfect. It hasn't worked perfectly, and what we're doing now is really giving opportunities to get a new dynamic – call it what you want – into the taxi industry; giving those who are going to drive it through their centers, the opportunity to be pre-conquered, take on new technology and meet the new competition. That's what this is all about. The counties are going to play a big role. The counties have received two tools. They can regulate this through regulations, and they can also make agreements using the exclusive right model to ensure that they have an offer in their own municipality or area. This is important, and we have to view it as a positive development. I think the representative of Battle Violence Vedum is surpassing the meteorologists when it comes to being absolutely certain of what is going on in the future. The system that we get from the county councils now has to have exclusive rights with or without grants is in many ways more flexible than today's need-testing system. The county councils will be more able to determine exactly what they want with regard to the availability of taxis. Requirements of the exclusive contract may, for example: be available at times of day or in days and weeks of low demand, universal design of vehicles and other qualitative requirements. The main objective of a change in the Professional Transport Act is to create an industry that will have a better link between quality and price. It will be achieved by making it easier to recruit for the profession, but also to phase out the unprofessional. When customers get into a taxi, they should feel safe and know that they are going where they are going, at a pre-arranged price and in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2965	Basically, I think the Center Party is a reasonable party -- they used to be it sometime in the 1980s. But in recent years – first in position and now, especially, in opposition – I would say that the Center Party has become very negative and opposed to all evolution and all change, everything should be the way it has always been. And there's an incredible amount of black paint. The center part is also very concerned. It seems like they're almost in principle saying no to everything the government is doing. They're not just against what the government does, but they're also very concerned about the changes that the government is making. The center party is so skeptical, negative and concerned that I am actually getting a little concerned about the center party myself. But that is no reason for concern, because I believe that the Minister of Transport can give the Central Party both good professional advice and good spiritual guidance in several areas, including in the case of the taxi case. I want to use the Center Party leader's own rhetoric. He tried to be a little funny and – I guess I could say – bullied or flirted with the former Minister of Finance about her standing up ‘in the morning’ and trying to figure out what taxes she was going to raise today. I want to send it back to the party leader in the Center Party. I'm going to think that Battle Violence Vedum wakes up 'in the morning' and tries to figure out what the government is doing now, which he can worry about: how is my list of concerns? Are there any points I can add to my list? There I would think that the Battle of Vedum's lunch conversation with itself is: what's changing now, which we can protest against, which looks worrying and dangerous? But I think it's a little disappointing, because it's strange that the Center Party and Battle Force Vedum don't take on the fact that the world is in constant development, that society is in constant change. And we politicians have to make sure that laws and regulations are adapted to a modern society and adapted to the international developments that we see that our neighbouring countries, for example. adapts. What the Center Party is worried about today is the taxi industry. The centre party is concerned that the working day of the taxi industry will be very difficult, concerned about poor performance and concerned that increased competition will lead to greater uncertainty. They are concerned about over-establishment in the cities, and they are concerned about the lack of taxis in the countryside. In fact, I believe that the Central Party has good intentions, and that, of course, they really have a concern about the changes that the government is now making. But I am convinced that those concerns are unfounded, and I am very reassured to hear the Council of State say that he will follow developments closely to see if there are any adjustments that are necessary to ensure that the concern of the Central Party is not real. I do not know whether the centre party is concerned with consumers and customers. We have to remember that many of the changes we are making are precisely to give a better offer to the customer and the consumer. Fortunately, the bulk of the population is occupied by consumers and customers, and the government is occupied by them. We in the Progress Party do not necessarily agree with everything that the government does. Nor do we agree with all the changes that are now being made to the taxi industry, but we have faith in competition, and we have faith in the market. We have a positive approach to change, and we are convinced that the changes that the government is now making will lead to customers getting a better taxi offer both in the city and in the countryside. It's not true that there's a full release, as the Center Party is trying to create an impression of. In rural areas, county councils continue to be given the opportunity to control the market by allocating monopolies to some actors. It is also possible to drive on part-time. Today, a full-time run, full-time, in 100 pst. position. The fact that you can drive in part-time is very positive. It allows more people to drive taxis while, for example: can have another job as well. It is particularly nice in rural areas, e.g. in White Mountain, Trysil and Hemsedal, where one has sketches, and where more can come and drive taxis in the evening and weekends to help and get away from the peaks. It's positive, and it's a little strange that the Center Party is negative to it, because it should be a positive extra bee-nutrition for farmers and the primary industry that they can also drive a little taxi in the weekends in the winter when there are a lot of people on the ski resorts. There are also several regulations with regard to requirements for e.g.: taximeters, language skills and certificates of good conduct. The car must be registered in the vehicle register, marked with a permit number and entered for annual checks. And if you want to drive in the collective field, it's a requirement for ceiling lights. In addition, there will be a requirement for two years of experience for drivers who are issued with a driver’s voucher. Furthermore, all taxi trips shall be logged, just for the sake of safety of passengers and drivers. The fact that it's full release is completely wrong. Finally, I would like to give a little advice to the Council of State: if there is something that needs to be changed [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2986	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e2991	Now there are many disappointed taxi owners and drivers on the roads. In fact, they have had the hope that a new minister will look at this matter with new eyes. I have registered a new way of looking at the matter, and it is not positive. I would like to make it clear that today's law does not conflict with the EEA Agreement. I thought that was clear when the proposition was debated, so I am very surprised that today's minister is not aware of that. In addition, I would like to comment on the exclusive right. It is the fig leaf that the representatives of the government parties are trying to hide behind, because it is totally unrealistic to believe that exclusive rights will provide the district dross with safe income and the population out in the districts a good offer. With effect from 1 July, the new Professional Transport Act shall apply. Then the driving obligation disappears, and then we will have the standby that has worked 24/7. In the largest cities there will be even more taxis and even more difficult to feed on driving taxis. Prices may also vary widely in cities, so that Aunt Klara absolutely cannot afford to take a taxi on New Year’s Eve. I would like to remind you of the April 2019 TØI report, which indicated that if the government's proposal were adopted, it would be the worst possible option for Oslo. This is also pointed out by the Police Directorate, who is concerned about even greater over-establishment in Oslo. They call today's situation anarchy, but the government has now decreed that we should have even more of the medicine that doesn't work. Norway will have even more dross, more anarchy, less seriousness in the largest cities and even fewer dross in the districts. It gives people poorer services. I want to comment in particular that when Tove Linnea Brandvik, head of the Norwegian Handicap Federation, went home after the debate in the NRK, she felt that she could not get hold of a taxi that could take wheelchair users. There were no wheelchairs available. What does this do with the experience of equivalency, equality and social participation of the disabled? The release of rights, without the need to protect the rights of the disabled, leads to even more situations like this in the future. The same applies to the increase in fees agreed by the Government Parties with effect from 1 January 2019. It becomes much harder to maintain the proportion of wheelchair cars when they become so much more expensive. The changes in the tax law resulting in the aggregation of the licence categories for taxis, company wagons and the transport of disabled persons will, together with the winding-up of the driving obligation and central connection, exacerbate the taxi provision of wheelchair users, just as the Norwegian Handicap Association stated in its hearing response on 20 December 2018. Then they pointed out that it was ‘very likely that the proposed changes will reduce the number of cars that can carry passengers in wheelchairs and thus make the provision of transport even worse for disabled persons than it already is’. I want to ask the Council of State Hareide what this is doing with the disability's experience of equivalency, equality and participation in the future. Finally, I would like to go a little further into the competence requirements when the rights are removed, but the competence requirement is so low. It is clear that it should not lead to an excessive barriers to establishment and that a professional who is a national of any EU country may pursue his/her occupation in Norway in the same way as other professionals. You can then ask whether the business address in Norway should be the driver’s seat in drosja in Oslo centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3009	I would like to start by saying that I fully agree with the representative of Battle Violence Vedum, who says that there are amazingly many who are employed, and who run taxis around this country, who do a crazy good job. But this is a little bit like closing your eyes, hoping it goes over, and when you open them again, everything is perfect. It is particularly difficult to get home by taxi for a wheelchair user from the previous representative, because that is how the regulation is today. I dare remind you that when the Senterpartie had the Minister of Transport, someone wanted to be able to rebuild Volkswagen Caddy, so that you could have with wheelchair users. Then the party colleague of the Vedum party was the representative of the Minister of Transport, and it was cool that it was impossible to get it done. You wouldn't open up for this. This would mean that you had cars that could ensure that more people who needed special transport could get it without a lot of charges, as it is often when you have to buy larger cars. The representative Schlagsvold Vedum is talking about fees. I dare remind you that the Senterpartiet was in the Ministry of Transport when Avinor introduced a tax on taxis that were to run from airports. In the case of wheelchair users, the removal of central connection was very advanced now. I dare remember what this is all about. Some of the people I've been talking to, who are driving centres around, would like to see some of those who are either owners or who are drivers, not continue to be obliged to be part of a central unit, because you actually wanted them not to be. When you hear both Trygve Battle Violence Vedum and Siv Mossleth, you would think that this is a business where you currently only run eight hours a day on weekdays. So it's like there's long days and big challenges, and it's despite the regulations that you have there today. That might mean making some changes. And as the Council of State says, in 323 municipalities, regulations can be introduced, and county councils can impose restrictions on who is going to do this job. So I'm concerned about this in a manner of conduct and that you have to have competence requirements for the person who's driving. I think it is very good that you now say clearly that you should have it. In this industry, we have had long-term challenges. I think you should go out and talk to the customers. I think maybe someone should open their eyes and go out and talk to those out there who use this transport, if you think everything is good. I think you'll see a lot of variations, but I think a lot of customers will experience that they don't necessarily get what they want. That's one of the challenges. That's why you want to make it possible to get a better offer to your customers, and so that those who want it can establish themselves in this industry. I think it is important to have a central connection, which the representative Vedum was so concerned about, also to be able to remove someone you don't want to have, because there are people who make sure to do the job badly. It affects the customers, and it affects those who run the business. I am pleased with what the council says he wants to follow closely. It's clear that when you start something new, there may be challenges, but I think this is going to go well. Unlike the Center Party, which preferably closes its eyes, hopes that everything will be as it has been, and will not make changes to anything, I think it's good sometimes to get up, look around and think: shall we try to do things even better for the customers, for those who work there, for those who are there? I also think you might want to remember what you did when you were in government yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3027	I don't quite understand it, but I have my own ability to come right before or right after the representative Hoksrud with posts on transportation. There is, of course, a certain distance between the former Secretary of State of the Ministry of Transport and the Swedish Ministry of Transport in terms of how liberal the movement should be – and really how much liberalisation we should have in society at all. I am not quite sure if the state council that is now sitting had delivered exactly the same proposition that the state council from the Progress Party delivered when we dealt with this matter last year. But it's clear that the current state council must run the race, it should just be missing. That's it. We had a pretty strong debate last year about this matter. We were at a lot of meetings with the taxi industry, and we knew where the wind was. It is clear that in many ways there will be a release now in July, and we have seen that very many of those who own the taxis, and not least those who drive the taxis, are concerned about their job. It's moving towards a layman's society in the cities. It's hard to see anything else. It's going in that direction. What's going to happen in cities is probably to a large extent that the very profession of taxi driver is gone. It may be that they have one job in the day and another job in the evening, as they drive taxis. They're going to pry out, there'll be dross that, excuse the expression, fly out of cracks in the walls in the evening, when there's a market. But what about those areas where there's little to serve? That's what's the big question here. I'm very busy with the districts in this context. I'll leave the cities now. District reasons mean a lot to me – and too many people here in the hall, I'll assume, most people come from a district. What is the exclusive right regime worth if it's not a market to compete for? The praie market in a cross in Sigdal is not worth much. It's not that. If you don't link anything to the system of exclusive rights, it's hard to see that it's very attractive to apply for any such scheme. If the State Council and the Ministry had considered exploring the possibilities for regular driving – we think of school driving, TT driving, patient driving – we would have had something to do with it. We have to see this in context. Had we done that with the districts, we could have provided a basis for the taxis there and given the exclusive rights system a content. They have to have something at the bottom to give us a service offer in the districts. I have to say that many, also changing, large numbers have carried out many centralisation projects over the years. Something's been going on, banks are being closed, post offices, branches are being closed. It's become a strong centralization. We know this. But there's also a lot of politicians have been responsible for, and lately we've been witnessing a lot of that kind of action. These include police reform, community reunification, etc. We have a long list. We have a responsibility to see what's happening in the districts. The post, as the Council of State also mentioned, is actually part of that picture. There are some, especially older people in the districts now, who are left without any special offer. The case is part of that picture. And so we've done this with the wit and the will here in the hall – the majority have done this. So I hope that the Council of State takes it up, goes into how he establishes the system of exclusive rights, and sees whether there are grounds for economic operations in several ways by taking some steps that include, for example, the creation of a system of exclusive rights. fixed journeys. I have been around a lot and seen the currents in the industry sea, and I have to say to the representative Hoksrud: once, the Progress Party was very strong in the taxi industry. To a large extent, the advance party was the party for taxi drivers for a period of time. It's not anymore. It's happened a lot. They have seen what the liberal attitude of the Progress Party stands for. I think the representative Hoksrud far on the way can agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3042	Like probably a lot of people in this room, I'm taking a lot of taxis. If you go back a few years in time, I observed the exact same thing as the previous speaker: that very many of the taxi drivers and the taxi owners were convinced of the Advance Party followers. I think I would say that it was the nuclear electors of the Progress Party. But it's not like that now. In the last year, I haven't met a single taxi driver who says he's going to vote on the Progress Party or on any of the other right parties, because taxi owners and taxi drivers are completely in disagreement with the taxi policy being pursued. Yes, it was so bad that after the government presented its bill last spring, TAXI, member and information sheet of the Norwegian Taxi Federation, «Worst Government of the Times», wrote on the front page with a picture of the then government – nothing less, the worst government of the time. I have been sitting here today listening to the representatives of Hareide, Igstad, Johnsen and Hoksrud. What is to be solved with the liberalisation and release that is now taking place in the taxi industry? There's no answer. The representative Igstad is talking about the centres – there is no requirement to be connected to the centres at all. The representative Johnsen said that today you have to drive full time – you definitely don't have to, there are many taxi drivers running part-time. I do not understand what is being resolved by the liberalisation which has unfortunately been adopted. The challenge today is probably that there are too many taxis in cities and too few taxis in rural areas, with today’s legislation. Most likely, what is now adopted will lead to even more dross in cities and even fewer dross in rural areas. When I take taxi from Oslo airport Gardermoen I often ask the taxi driver: How long have you been waiting? The answer has been for up to four hours – that people have been sitting for four hours and waiting for the Gardermoen to get a taxi ride. Is it getting better with the release one now adding up? Of course, it won't, when one lowers the threshold and wants even more players and even more people to drive a taxi, with fewer demands and rules than it is today. The Labour Party believes that instead we should have pursued a taxi policy where we encourage and encourage more people to live off the taxi profession, because everything is not perfect as it is today – not at all – but the solutions chosen by the majority in this Chamber are going in the wrong direction. There must be reason for the four parties that have adopted this, to ask themselves the question: Why do all taxi owners protest, and why do all taxi drivers protest at what has now been adopted? What are the government parties that don't understand who work in the industry? We are very sceptical about this from the Labour Party. The Minister of Transport mentioned experiences from other Nordic countries. Yes, but it must also be added that in Sweden and Finland, there is now a political debate about going back and changing because one believes that one has gone too far in liberalisation there. And in Denmark, one has not chosen the model that has now been adopted in Norway. So yes, you can look at experiences from other Nordic countries, but then you also have to look at the negative aspects of the changes that have been made there in recent years. Again: What problem is solved by the liberalisation adopted? We still have not received an answer to that question. By lowering the requirements, letting go of more people, letting go of Uber and letting go of others, I fear that someone is ruining an entire industry – instead of building up and wanting to make changes to build up under the serious actors and make sure that we have a safe and good nutrition, and that those who work there can have whole jobs. But it will end up with what the representative Johnsen said, which is really the whole thing: it is the belief of the Progress Party in the market that is the starting point for the whole deregulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3059	The former law included both the obligation to operate and centralise the rights holder. The thrush centres were responsible for the dross being available 24 hours a day – a minimum of jerseys. Keepers are always – and always were – on the road at times with little customers. The central link allows the public to deal with a group of drivers that can provide transport for both disabled persons, patients and school students when and where it is needed. This is the practice today. The centre party believes that taxis should continue to be part of the overall public transport offer with geographical coverage across the country and with framework conditions that can provide predictability and stability for the taxi industry. Public regulation of rights, strict quality, safety and environmental requirements and regulation of tariffs make the service safe and professional. The measures adopted by the government are reflected in a series of measures for liberalisation and privatisation, whereby market mechanisms will have the most freedom of choice without important public governance for a service that for some is the only choice they have — the only choice they have. Norwegian Eco-Forum, which has members from police, prosecutor, tax administration, tax collectors, customs authorities, Nav and other control offices, bank, insurance, audit firms, etc., strongly warns against this development. They state: ‘This proposed liberalisation will largely reverse and put the industry back where they were with a black and uncontrollable industry. The large amount of black driving by the Uber drivers alone is proof that there is a great deal of work and a lot of resources from tax authorities, police and NAV that in this case must be used in the industry to bring the risk back to today’s standard’. It's simply heavy shooting, which doesn't need any further depression. Many people have mentioned this. A so-called exclusive right model has been introduced in municipalities with less than 20 000 inhabitants, but to which markets will such an exclusive right apply? Today's taxi market is divided into two segments. It is the contract segment, which is the public contract market, which is patient travel, school kiss, municipal transport, order transport, parts of TT transport and other special kisses. This segment is not covered by the proposed changes, but is thus the most important market of district dross, the most important market. And it's the one-time segment, which includes the praie market, the holding market and parts of the order market. The proposed changes shall apply to this market, a market which does not exist in the districts – it does not exist. The centre party questions a great deal about how this model will work when there is no so-called contract running linked to it. At least there has to be a minimum one can make a change to this legislation – a minimum. We want a market that contains the taxi's role as collective services. It shall be compulsory to drive, it shall be a working environment, it shall be a permit system, competence requirements and price regulation. The steps proposed now, with the removal of the number of permits need testing, the removal of obligations to be linked to a central, the lifting of professional competence requirements for the rightholder, the abolition of warranty requirements for the rightholder, minor labelling requirements for the taxis, the lifting of requirements for the know-how test, etc., are in practice a release for a number of unprofessional operators in the taxi industry. This means the industry itself, they take it up repeatedly. Time and time again, they say the same thing. And the pay and work conditions, which Myrli's representative had in mind, are expected to deteriorate considerably. Governments can do something about this, and he should definitely do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3079	There are several representatives from the Progress Party and the Right who say that the Centre Party is against development. I am against a trend in Norway where those who do the practical work will have lower pay and working conditions. I am opposed to a development in which there is a tendering policy in the transport sector that allows those who have washed trains for 40 years to lose their jobs because of an ideological project that the Progress Party has. I'm against a development where you run a taxi policy against everyone who works in the industry. The representatives of the party say they are a little concerned about idle driving and so on. But they know that with the measures that are now being implemented, there will be an over-establishment of taxis, even further between trips and even lower profitability for those who are going to drive taxis around Norway. If you listen to the leader of the Norwegian Taxi Federation, he says straight away that taxi drivers can disappear as full-time workers. They call for the Ministry to take up the debate on the labour society. But in the case of the Progress Party and the Right here, they don't seem to be worried at all. There are 14,000 solid people who are working and trying to get a family economy to go together, and then we know that it's getting harder for them. I don't want a social development where the leadership team gets higher and higher wages, while those who do practical work get a more and more demanding working day. We look at it in the area by area, and that is the impact of reform after reform by today's government. We're elected. We're going to make life better, not worse, and this taxi liberalisation is going to make life worse for people. To take the ‘fantastic’ railway reform – it was ironically said that they have gone from 11 to 49 directors in the Norwegian railway system. Is it a step forward or a step backwards? It's a retreat. The average salary of the top six leaders is between three and four million dollars. Is it a step forward or a step backwards? It's a retreat. When I take the train in the morning, I meet the conductor who has received a worse pension. It's a retreat. And the commuters sitting around me on the train have been cut off in the commuting allowance. It's a retreat. The point is that we have different goals for which societal development we want. We want to have a social development where there are less differences between people, no bigger. We want a social development where we have a government council that listens to the Handicap Federation, the FFO, the Blind Alliance and those who work in the taxi industry – that he starts listening. So my last call to Knut Arild Hareide is that he takes a meeting with the Norwegian Taxi Federation, and that he takes a round, goes to the taxi centre and talks to those who drive taxis, and asks how they think this is going to be, if they think it's going to be better. I hope, of course, that I am wrong. If I'm wrong and it gets better, nothing is better than that, but now everyone has said the same thing – that it's going to get worse. Then we can't push a law change from last year in front of us. As the Council of State, it is fully possible to make proposals for legislative changes in Stortinget – all the time, we are changing laws in Stortinget every single day. That's the easiest thing we do in Stortinget. It is quite possible for a councillor to take initiative against Stortinget, and we shall warmly welcome him. The fees have also never been higher. For example, the disability tax was increased by over 100 pst. in the course of one night. It's unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3096	At least I can promise the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, that we will meet with the Norwegian Taxi Federation, because I have said that we should follow these developments carefully. I think it has been a good debate, but I want to answer some of the questions that have come up here. I am pleased with the commitment attached to universal design, and let it be quite clear: the county councils can, after the amendment of the rule from 1 July, impose universal design requirements for dross if the market does not offer a satisfactory supply for these groups. Among other Siv Mossleth was busy with it in his post. There have also been questions about taximeters. We've passed it on now, because it's about security, but we're looking for alternative solutions. What it's all about is providing a flexibility for the industry. We have just said that we are continuing, but we are working with the police to look at other solutions. To the issue of the EEA: What is at least quite clear is that in 2017, ESA provided a reasoned report that central parts of the Norwegian taxi regulation are in breach of the EEA Agreement. That's why it wasn't an option like today. We had to make a change anyway. I think this is an industry that needs a change. I have pointed out what the Consumer Council and the Competition Authority have said. He's a few of us. And I thought to the extent that either one is unanimous or disagrees with the change, a given one has a description of an industry that needs to change. So I want to say that there is not a single director's salary in the matter we've been discussing today. But it is a challenge in the transport sector that we have had an increase in directorships. That means I'm an udder. This trend and trend must be reversed, even when it relates to wage levels, but it is not about this issue. So I would like to point out that the challenges associated with District Norway are important, and it is important for active states and county politicians to follow this. So in 323 out of 356 municipalities, we can introduce one right if we want. I hope we don't introduce it in all of these, but we have the possibility. And we can demand 24 hours of availability/execution if we want to, and we can make demands on the disabled to ensure a good supply. I promise to follow developments closely. I know that a new reform will require a lot, and then a good dialogue with the industry is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3117	The debate on substance is closed. So 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3135	Bergensbanen and E16 have been frequently debated in this Chamber for many years, both in the context of national transport plan rollovers and in subsequent budget debates. There have been interviews, numerous questions have been asked by individual representatives from Buskerud, from Hordaland and from members of the Transport Committee. Today’s interpellation merges into the ranks, this time on the initiative of the Forum Nye Bergensbanen, which most know is a stakeholder organisation working to modernise the Bergensbanen and build the Ringeriksbanen, as the Stortinget decided in 1992, then for the start-up period 1994–1997. There's a lot of water in the sea since then, unfortunately. As a curiosity it can be mentioned that the Stortinget had already treated two propositions about the main trajectory of Bergensbanen a hundred years before. But back to our own time: In response to Stortinget's decision of 1992, the New Bergensbanen Forum was established in 1993. The members of the forum were from the beginning of the then county municipalities of Hordaland, Buskerud and Akershus, as well as the municipalities of Bergen, Vaksdal, Voss, Ulvik, Aurland, Hol, Ål, Gol, Nes, Flå, Ringerike, Hole and Bærum. In addition, the NHO and the LO shall provide the counties with the right to meet and speak. In total, this is a strong and clear expression of the real importance of the realisation of Bergensbanen and E16, both for the social and industrial development of large parts of the East and West. The New Bergensbanen Forum has the following main objectives for the work: Ringeriksbanen, with construction start – it is still standing – in 2019, driving time of four hours Oslo–Bergen with high comfort and all the increase in freight traffic on the track. The purpose of this interpellation is to know what the government wants to do to make the train a real alternative to flights between Oslo and Bergen with a travel time of four hours. Air traffic between Oslo and Bergen is on the top ten list of the most traffic routes in Europe. The environmental argument for betting on Bergensbanen is obvious. But many are losing patience and want to know what is going to happen now, and when that happens. This applies not only to those who often travel back and forth between Oslo and Bergen, and who want a more environmentally friendly way of travelling effectively, but also to those who live and work along parts of the route. Some of them are following the debate here today, both rapporteurs and representatives of the business community, perhaps from the Buskerud side of the mountain, but they are also accompanying them in Hordaland. The 30th anniversary of Stortinget's decision to modernise Bergensbanen and build the Ringeriksbanen is approaching storm chalk, but the spade is not yet in the earth. Let's hope we can manage to mark the 30th anniversary by noting that the construction is in full swing. But then the government has to get on the road, so that the Storting can also make the necessary decisions. When the Stortinget dealt with the matter of E16 Bjørum-Skaret in 2017, it stated in the proposition: ‘The Government provides for a strong overhaul of the construction of new E16 from Skaret to Hønefoss and new Ringeriksbahn.’ It was quite exactly one year after the then state councillor Solvik-Olsen in April 2016 stood in Stortinget and said: ‘In 2019, the walk in the earth, in 2024 it must’ – that is, the Ringerix track – ‘stand by, simply because we have changed the planning methods.’ 2019 is over. It was first postponed to 2021. In the national transport plan for 2018-2029, a slash was introduced: construction start 2021/2022. It may seem a trifle, but for those who follow the NTP, it's pretty important, because it marks the distinction between the first four and obliging years of the transport plan and the next six, or now eight years. To ensure start-up on the right side of the slash and necessary appropriations, the work on the regulatory plan must be completed. There has been a consensus on using a government plan to ensure a rapid process, but the conclusion is that state regulation as a security of pace may be a bit spun up. In the revised budget for 2019, we could at least read that delays in the planning process caused the need for money for the Ringeriksbahnen and E16 to be reduced by 625 million. kr, more than 50 pst. in relation to what was originally granted. Part of the amount was used for planning other routes. The regulatory plan should have been adopted before Christmas 2018. Now it's more than a year late. At the end of May last year, then State Council Dale answered questions from the representative Arne Nävra that the plan was in the final phase before being sent to the Ministry of Local Affairs for final decisions. So it happened on 20 May last year, and it's still there. On questions from the representative Sverre Myrli in January of this year, the then Minister of State for Local Affairs, Mæland, replied that the ministry's treatment of the state regulatory plan would not lead to delays in the project. Construction start 2021, on the right side of the slash: is that still possible, or are we talking now 2022? If so, will it hold? On written questions from the representative Myrli, the Council of State replied one month ago that the plan could be adopted ‘within a short period of time’. Now it's a tidy concept, but Councillor Hareide, as a new Minister of Transport, may help to clarify exactly that. The plan is in another department, but I assume that the two new state councils have close contact in that matter. At the beginning of this month, the Busherud and Hordaland benches, together with Forum Nye Bergensbanen, organized a cross-political meeting here at Stortinget in preparation for today's interpellation debate. There we received clear feedback from municipalities, counties and businesses as to why again there was a strong appeal about progress in the matter. The business life along the Bergensbanen, including the journey life in Hallingdal, expressed, in riots from 4,000 members, their sincere concern for progress, both in the Ringeriksbanen joint project and the new E16 and also for the transport solutions recommended by the State Road Administration and the Bane NOR in KVU Arna-Voss, the so-called concept 5. Vossaløsninga AS, a community of interests of business, public sector, teams and organisations, as well as individuals, requests the prompt ordering of the municipal plan for the remaining section of Stanghelle-Voss, including planning appropriations, and the full development of K5 in new NTP, starting at the turn of 2021/2022. At the meeting, the municipalities were broadly represented by rapporteurs and rapporteurs, all with the same message. In 2015, the Ministry of Transport stated in a letter of assignment that the realisation of the road and rail projects involves very high levels of State investment, and that the Ministry therefore expects local authorities to build up under those investments through relevant instruments for their responsibilities. Business and local authorities have kept their share of the agreement. They've planned and invested. Only in Ringerijk are investments made in the billions class, and it is a big uplift for a municipality of the size of Ringerijk. In summary, I would like to repeat the question in the interview: Oslo–Bergen by train in four hours is possible. Air traffic between Oslo and Bergen is on the top ten list of the most traffic routes in Europe. Bergensbanen is a good environmental measure. The current NTP assumes the start of the Ringerix track in 2021, with completion in 2028. So it'll give the travelers one hour of savings between Oslo and Hønefoss, and with that also one hour saved to Bergen. At the other end of the Bergensbanen, the line is rascal, and the road and the track need painful remediation. The planned option K5 will provide savings in travel time of well over 40 minutes. Here, only planning of the Arna–Stanghelle route is in progress, so there is no order within the state road system to continue the planning of the rest of the Stanghelle–Voss route. So what does the government want to do to make the train a real alternative to flights between Oslo and Bergen with travel time of four hours? And not least, when will things begin to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3183	I want to start by thanking the representative Lise Christoffersen for the interpellation. It gives you a chance to say a little about how the government thinks about the development of this very important path. The Bergensbanen is the distance in Norway with the most traffic, and on which the representative is in: Bergensbanen is well worth betting. Goods traffic is high. About half of the goods between the two largest cities in the country are sent by Bergensbanen. SSB figures show that there were 1.2 million travelers on Bergensbanen in 2019. Passenger traffic is characterised by tourist traffic and weekend traffic to and from tourist destinations in the mountains and in Hallingdal. In the national transport plan 2018–2029, the government describes how we can measure the development possibilities on Bergensbanen, both in terms of freight and passenger traffic. In the current big-time news, projects will be launched that will bind Oslo and Bergen more closely by reducing travel times, facilitating the improvement of travel provision between cities and strengthening regional interaction, in particular business development. These projects are Arna–Bergen, Arna–Stanghelle, Ringeriksbanen and Routemodel 2027, R2027 Vosebanen. With regard to the first project, the route between Arna and Bergen, it is currently very busy and a bottleneck for train traffic towards and out of Bergen station and the freight terminal on Nygårdstängen. The single track of the day does not have sufficient capacity to meet the demand for growth in passenger and freight traffic. This is why the government has started developing double tracks on the route, including the double track with the two parallel tunnels through Ulriken. The dual track will, in the long term, allow for increased speed, more flexible route planning and increase capacity for both freight and passenger traffic. The double track, with two parallel tunnels through Ulriken, shall be completed by 2022 as planned. The effect of this measure will be removed once the last part of the route, the River–Bergen/Nygårdstangen freight terminal, has been completed. By renewing the Nygård bar, we guarantee freight operators more capacity and efficiency in the years to come, while at the same time providing more goods on the track. In addition, R2027 Voseban will provide more capacity on the track, which will benefit freight traffic in particular. The Arna-Stanghelle project, which is the first step in the development of the Arna-Voss route, is a cooperation project between Bane NOR and the State Road Service to build a safer and faster road and track link between Bergen and Voss. The project is developing a state regulatory plan for the route, based on K5. The state budget for 2020 has a budget of about 25 million. kr for the planning of the joint project. In the present NTP, the distance is described by construction start for the second six-year period and completion after 2029. Prioritisation and phase-in of the project will be further assessed in the National Transport Plan 2022-2033. In the case of the Ringeriksbanen, the work on the regulatory plan for the Ringeriksbanen-E16 joint project is Highcast/Honefoss in the final phase. As mentioned in Stortinget on 5 February 2020, the State Regulatory Plan is now being finalised in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The government will return to the Storing in its own way. The Ringerix Railway will extend the commuter area around Oslo with two regional trains per hour between Oslo and Hønefoss. This provides the potential for housing and nutrition growth in the region of ring ix. The route is both part of the intercity bet and as an improvement of the train connection between Oslo and Bergen. A new route between Sandvika and Hönefoss will provide about an hour shorter journey time between Oslo and Bergen. It has been added to an extension that can provide travel time of about 35 minutes between Oslo and Henefoss. This allows two trains per hour in addition to any departures from the airport and a long distance from Oslo to Bergen. Thus, the train supply could be significantly increased. The government is concerned about the cost development of some railway projects. We will therefore follow closely the cost level and come back with measures to prevent this from compromising the soundness of the historical effort we now have on the railways. We have therefore commissioned transport modes to go through their entire portfolio critically, providing professional advice on how to optimise the projects within the NTP. Travel by train should not only be faster, it should also be attractive. In order to facilitate a more efficient and customer-friendly train service, the government has chosen to launch the passenger train service on a competitive basis. This means that the train companies compete to enter into a traffic agreement with the State, which regulates the rights and obligations of train provision in the package. A number of minimum requirements have been imposed in the traffic contracts on which the winning train operator is obliged to deliver. In addition to these minimum requirements, train companies compete to offer better train provision at a lower price. The release of the first three packages has already produced significant positive results. Not only does the State save billions of dollars on supply, competition has also shown that train companies are thinking new to attract new and more customers. Several departures, new offers on board and better cooperation with other public transport operators are among the measures to get more people to take trains. In December 2019, we won the race for Trafikpakket 3 West and have announced a number of improvements in supply at Bergensbanen. Improvements include, inter alia: a strong night and night supply and increased sleep capacity. We have also announced a new, more flexible, and upgraded product under the name Pluss. Here, travellers will be offered more comfortable chairs, more functional tables, a new sofa area with upgraded coffee facilities, improvement of the food supply and a new course and conference package, as well as increasing the number of daily departures from four to six. The offer will then give an approximate totimar frequency morning and afternoon. This is also in line with the Directorate-General for Railways’ decision on the distance offer, which concludes that it is profitable with several train departures on Bergensbanen. The trip time at Bergensbanen from Bergen and Oslo ends depends on the schedule being created and the project being carried out. The projects mentioned in today’s NTP, the one from 2018 to 2029, show that with the measures taken, it is possible to reduce travel time from the endpoints by about 1 hour and 15 minutes. This will be an important contribution to making the railway more attractive, but a travel time down to four hours in the NTP will require additional measures in addition to those that are there today. The advantages of the railway are primarily related to the transport of large freight volumes over long distances and large passenger flows in and between large urban areas. The government is betting on developing the railway in these areas. This is one of a number of important steps in a more environmentally friendly transport policy and will be central to a new major communication on the national transport plan, which will be presented in the spring of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3215	Thank you so much for your answer. Now I don't think I'm going to be tempted to draw up a debate on the privatisation and outsourcing of the railway, because it's a little out of focus, but I want to quickly tell you that as a proud year card holder at Vy, I've got a worse and more expensive distance offer on the routes that Vy doesn't win in the competition. The employees of the railway have probably also noticed some consequences that are not of the best, but I'm adding it to it now. The Council of State has confirmed that he sees the environmental aspect of both person and goods, but I note that if «short-term» is not yet defined by the Council of State when it comes to the completion of the State regulatory plan. Getting back to the Storing in an appropriate way is also a term that is usually used when setting deadlines is not entirely feasible, and it is actually a bit of a sin. The Council of State said that one should go through the costs critically. I understand that, but it would have been nice if the Council of State could say a little about what is the time perspective of that cost review, because it would probably also have consequences for when you can get started. Otherwise, the Council of State referred to the next roll of the NTP as regards what is to be done on the west side of the mountain. As a representative of Buskerud, I allow myself to stay at the Ringerik Railway. It's important to the country. It's important to Buskerud. There were high expectations for the last national transport plan in the case of the Ringerix Railway. The government – especially represented at the Right and the Advance Party – had even stretched the bow of expectation very high – too high, it would turn out. The handling force was not as great as it had been given the impression in advance. I showed in my first post that the municipality of Ringerijk has done its part of the job, while the large urban and industrial development plans depend entirely on a good infrastructure. If I don't remember completely wrong, the Council of State even attended the cake party at Sund Island in 2015 for start-up 2019, but unfortunately – that didn't work. Before or after the slash was also a hot theme in the big election fight in Buskerud, with the reason I gave in my first post. It is important for the firmness of the timing – more obligatory before the slash than after. It is a little alarming that the ambitions were further lowered in the draft state budget for 2018, as it was then stated that the government aimed at the possible start of construction in 2021/2022 – another reservation that gave cause for new unrest. But I look forward to the debate, and then we will see when the Council of State finally sums up whether we have come closer to clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3236	It is quite right, as the representative of Christoffersen says, that this was not an invitation to a major railway reform debate, but I also think it is important to bring forward some of the positive elements of the competition that we have seen. So today we are going to focus on the important theme that Christoffersen is raising, precisely the Bergensbanen. It is not to hide that the planning process we have associated with the Ringerik Railway has taken longer than we wanted. There are often many politicians who shout at a state level, and it is not always that that results in both the cheapest solution and that it happens in a short time. It's at least an experience we can take with us. We've said we're working on the government plan. We have also said, in a reply to Kjersti Toppe here in February, that we are in the final phase, and of course it is firm without me being able to give a date for it. But the Ringerix Railway is a very important project because it combines two things. It means something around the large Austlands area and about the distance between Oslo and Hønefoss. It means something to the way we develop the whole of the Henefoss region, and then it has a very big impact on the Bergensbanen. That's why it has friends on both sides of the mountain, precisely because it solves that challenge. When it concerns the time aspect, but I can't go into it today, there's no doubt that there was a lead on it with that line – 2021/2022 – in the NTP, and that's what my job is to follow up. In the case of the project K5, there is in the second part of NTP. It is an important project. What I want to emphasize here is that it has a road safety perspective. Both projects link roads and tracks – both the Ringerix Railway and the K5 in the West. Just K5 in the West has a road safety perspective. We know that the road is not safe due to racial hazards, and that makes it important. This is natural for me to come back to when we present NTP, but it is an important project that is now being prioritised by 25 million. kr to plan assets in 2020. It is an important work that the government will give priority to. Our final recommendation for that project comes naturally enough in the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3247	Let me first thank the interpellant and all those who have taken the initiative to put the Ringeriksbanen and Bergensbanen's abbreviation on the agenda here in the hall today. It's important. ‘If we had built one kilometer of track for each promise given, the train had gone from Henefoss to Sandvika many years ago. So the promises have not been missing. But are the politicians who have promised the track also willing to grant?’ This was written in an article in the Ringerijks Blad this day, and it was well written. The size can take a clear responsibility now, ensure that the project starts in 2022 and is completed in 2028/2029. It should be an undertaking and delivery of a cross-political project. Locally, the regulation plan and local preparation work well. The municipal committee recently enjoyed visiting the Ringeriks region and heard about all the important projects they were working on. We also see that this is not just a project for the Ringeriks region, but for the whole country. Climate responsibility is also about making realistic alternatives for people in everyday life. Much shorter travel time from Oslo to Bergen will allow trains to be selected over aircraft, but infrastructure is also about much more. It's about value creation and growth, about connecting the country and providing opportunities for cities and towns. I have recently – as I said – visited Ringerijk many times, and the municipality has the urban development plans ready. They are prepared for growth with quality, which is important for the Ringeriks region, but also for the whole of the East. It's about new homes, about job growth, and it's also about relieving the capital – everything can't be pushed into Oslo. The Hallingdals region is also one of Norway’s main tourist regions. We're talking about creating new jobs, thinking new, thinking experiences, cultural heritage and tourism. This project will contribute to this, and infrastructure needs to be put in place. Even a Drammenser admits that Bergen is an important city for Norway, an international city with value creation and enormous opportunities for tourism and experiences. Then you need infrastructure that is modern, green and that increases attractiveness. Let's, as a crowd, gather about this project that will have enormous national and regional impact. In Buskerud – yes, now it is called Viken, but it is Buskerud for my part – there are many transportation projects. But I can say that for us representing the Buskerud Workers' Party, this is the most important project we prioritise, the Ringeriksbanen Joint Project and the E16.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3265	The Bergensbahnen is an important freight train, but also attractive for passenger transport. It's a little interesting that, in contrast to two other sections of the track we've put out to compete, the one who was going to run this track actually had to pay to be allowed to drive. I think that says something about the importance of the project. Effective road and rail solutions are important for putting the whole country into use, for business and housing. The economy needs efficient transport corridors in order to bring the products to the markets, and this is a prerequisite for creating well-functioning housing and labour market regions. The government's transport policy binds the country tightly together. We build the road and the track at a pace that never before, and we put on new technology. Good welfare services and competitiveness for business require both high-quality and efficient modern infrastructure and secure transport solutions. At the same time, it is important to make it attractive to choose environmentally friendly modes of travel if we are to achieve the objectives of greenhouse gas emission reductions. In transport policy, it is easy to get involved in individual projects, naturally enough. The railway debate bears the hallmark of this. We are very concerned with double tracks and electrification, how much and where. However, I think we need to become more concerned with the objectives we want to achieve than with technical solutions. It is worth noting that a new route model, introduced gradually from 2012 to 2014, has led to strong growth in passengers by train. Intercity traffic in the East has almost doubled in the last six years. A total of 15 million more travelled by train in Norway in 2018 than in 2012. In total, nearly 78 million new entrants were registered in 2018. A key action in climate policy is to increase the development of public transport in urban areas. Urban and urban growth agreements should strengthen collective provision and improve the flexibility of route provision so that more people will be able to choose public transport for their daily journey. Increased capacity is also important in establishing transport systems in urban areas. Although the train is not the largest carrier in this picture, the train has a role as a backbone in the transport system in and out of the big cities. The costs of important projects such as Bergensbanen and Østfoldbanen have increased beyond all proportions, and is nothing but a push under the carpet. Cost optimisation is important if we are to achieve the objectives of railway policy. The development of the intercity sections is important in order to ensure better capacity for our main routes. One must note, however, that this investment is significantly more extensive than that on which the intercity bet was first adopted in Stortinget. The Ringerix line has come into being, in addition to the requirement for high-traffic sections connected to the Folloban Eastern Line on the Eastfold Line – in addition to massive bets on the new ERTMS signalling system. An example of the increased costs is the large investment on the Ringerix track. In addition, the importance of new train tunnel through Oslo has become more visible as delays through today’s tunnel are constantly creating problems for train traffic. In NTP 2014-2023 it was set at 1.5 billion. kr to Ringeriksbanen, for planning and starting in the period 2018-2021, kr to new E16. In the national transport plan 2018–2029, costs have increased to 26 billion. kr for this joint project, of which 20 billion. kr to railway. The cost estimate has now increased further. Another example of cost-driven elements is poor ground conditions, which led, inter alia, to cost estimates. on the Eastfold Railway. I think we can quickly agree that we need to find better methods that can make cost estimates safer before making the final trajectory choices. In the case of the Ringerix track, it may not be that difficult. There you build something else and something more than intended. In the case of the Eastfold Railway, there is a lack of knowledge about basic conditions – perhaps it should not come as a surprise. We build a lot of railways in Norway and will build more in the years to come. It is important that a teacher of any mistakes made take the lesson into account in the planning of future routes. I think it is both necessary and right to make sure that one also at Bergensbanen gets the costs under control, so that we can end up with a product that everyone can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3290	Let me, like several others, thank my colleague Lise Christoffersen for travelling this interpellation. This is a matter which has been discussed year in and year out, where it is called for a definitive and forward-looking solution for the East-West train traffic and also for the part relating to car traffic and the new E16. This case is about several things. Shortening the travel time between Oslo and Bergen by one hour, getting it down for four hours, is one thing. Ensuring tourist development in Hallingdal, where tens of thousands of ski tourists can choose arrival by train, is another. A relief in the press areas of Oslo, Bærum and Asker by people establishing themselves in Hole, Ringerike, Jevnaker, Lier or Modum municipalities in Buskerud may be a third. The government's expressed willingness to expand Bergensbanen/Ringeriksbanen and E16 in recent years has been commendable. But when you finally think that things are happening, something comes up that leads to postponements, rematches, difficulties and uncertainties. As a representative from Buskerud, once an independent and beautiful county, reaching a constituency in the Viken County Massodon, I will concentrate on, yes, just Buskerud. In view of the dramatic developments in the Ringerix region as a result of the political leadership given around this rail and road project, it is essential that the government now complies with its policy-making and propulsion assurances. Think what a half-hour journey between Sandvika and Hønefoss will do for the commuters. They're going to have a new everyday life, a whole new world. Think of what it means to say for the development of Hole, Hønefoss and surrounding areas, in Modum and Jevnaker – and with great ringing effects for Hallingdal. When the track and the road are in place, numbers from the University of Southeast Norway show that by 2045 it will be possible to invest between 98 and 131 billion. kr in the Ringerik region – in regional housing, business development and municipal infrastructure. Population growth in this region could be at 3 pst. annual. It will create 12 000 new jobs by 2045 in addition to a very large number of people being employed throughout the development period. There will always be different perceptions locally in such a large project. That's also the case here. Questions about crossroads at Helgelandsmoen and the station at Sundvolen have created local debate, but now have broad support. In addition, both components seem necessary and sensible in order to increase socio-economic profitability, improve road safety and strengthen the basis for economic development. Several actions are requested regarding the construction of both the Ringeriksbahnen/E16 and the K5 project between Voss and Bergen, in the State budget for 2021 and in the national transport plan. There is a great deal of political consensus about the projects, so here, together, we need to find solutions to ensure that there are no more postponements and uncertainties associated with them. Even in the richest country in the world, there is a shortage of money when it comes to priorities. Sometimes we actually just have to take advice. When Bergensbanen was built, it cost an entire state budget. It was worth every penny when we look at its meaning in all the years that followed. It may not be completely visible in the context, and yes, this is going to cost a terrible amount of money. But given what it means to say for development, growth and the future, I think we simply can't afford new releases or more uncertainty, and that this is to be delivered in line with what is promised. This helps to develop society, make everyday life easier for most people and also contribute positively to an environmental perspective by allowing both more travellers and more goods to be transported on the road. That is why I hope that the state regulation plan for FRE16 will be adopted with the first and will be forwarded to quality assurance, KS2. Hopefully this will not delay the possibility of starting FRE16 in 2021/2022, as it says in today's NTP. Finally, a wise man once said, "Where it is will, it is a way." It is tempting to add: and railway tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3315	I would also like to thank Lise Christoffersen for this interpellation. The abbreviation of the Bergensbanen is a national project. It is a matter for large parts of the East, much more than Buskerud, and very important also for the West and Hordaland. It is a great step forward if we make this happen, and when we get it done, because it links Norway together. The centre party is behind the joint project and the state regulatory plan. Søl remembers me very well when I went into the 2013 election campaign just for a joint project, because that was the option that would destroy the least of the natural areas that we're going through, and that I'm now going into. There has been an important discussion about where the line should go through Hole and Ringrike. The center party was on the Åsa option, but unfortunately we didn't get along with it, and so one had to go into an alternative that is a brutal nature attack. I can't strongly stress that here we are facing a very brutal natural attack, and then we have to do what we can to reduce the damage. Today's state regulatory plan is a good plan. Nevertheless – and I hope everyone here is aware of this – there are more than 500 carpets of food soil with the plan presented. What we're talking about is one of Norway's most fertile agricultural areas. And councillor, it's no coincidence that Hole has four crowns in his municipal weapon, four crowns. I don't know about any municipalities that have multiple crowns. It's Halfdan Black, it's Sigurd Syr, it's Olav the Holy, and it's Harald Hardrede. At that time, one did not have diesel, but then one of nature lived – that one did not rob, then – and then it was important to have a seat where it was fertile. This area, the Council of State, we are now going through, and the President is also aware of that. It's fertile soil, it's a unique cultural landscape, a natural cultural landscape, with a rich flora and fauna at the end of the Big River from the Begnavas Strait and the Randsfjord Strait. Northern Tyrifjorden wetland system is a wetland area declared in 1996 to be Ramsar area and includes five nature reserves. So here we're facing a natural pearl, and it's not nice that it gets expensive. It has to be expensive, because here we're not going to destroy when we've chosen to move forward in the area that's considered the overall best option. And then there's something I want to underline. The first is what is in the environmental tunnel plan. I have to say it so strongly that no matter what happens in this process, the Council of State does not have to go away from the environmental tunnels, which means that one can grow the earth by road and rail on large distances. For the Centre Party, it is entirely inappropriate to consider plans which do not involve the completion of the environmental tunnels as planned. Furthermore, it is absolutely essential for us that we have the Sundvollen station, so that one can get a dwelling in the hill towards Sandvika in the forest and impediment areas that are there. It is an incredibly important part, because as a result, one should not get massive housing on the agricultural land and in the cultural landscape of Hole. It is also essential for us from the Central Party to have a run-off on Helgelandsmoen, so that one can ensure the development of the industry in the Helgelandsmoen area. There's a mo, there's no cultivated area, there's an old military camp where there's great potential for development at the border between Hole and Ring Kingdom. And then finally, we have Henefoss Station. The design that is now selected for the Hönefoss station is good, because it is designed so that you can get to a ring railway – Sandvika, Hönefoss, Vikersund, Hokksund and Drammen – after the construction of the new Ringeriksbanen. So we can connect this whole area in an efficient and good way, and we can get a clean-up for the Randsfjord track, a path that today is only used sporadically, I would say, to the mountain trails. The trains that go to Bergen hardly stop both on Vikersund and on Hokksund. Finally, I would just like to say that the centre party is firmly committed to what we have said so far, and what we have said all along, that we should start construction in 2021, with the preparatory work, so that one can follow that plan. This is a plan that was first presented a hundred years ago. Now it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3334	First of all, I want to thank the Council of State for a good deal. It is reassuring that he is a hoarding and knows very well about Bergensbanen. For a long time the dream has been a safe and modern mountain range with travel time between Bergen and Oslo in four hours. We have heard that many times in the debate today. Politically it has our great commitment from county councils and municipalities, where Bergensbanen has our life-blood for both passenger and freight traffic. But the one NTP after the other has susa past, without taking proper hold. The train takes too much time between the two largest cities in Norway. 11 years ago we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Bergensbanen, and the impending Minister of Transport, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, the one-way cab in the locomotive. She felt that the train took just as long from Oslo to Bergen as it did in 1909, and it was without obstacles like snow or race, to which we are witnessing today. Bergensbanen development has not been followed in time. It's just a little bit of anarchy. The track is the same, the train is stuck on the same routes winter after winter, and for the time being there is a lot of bus for trains. All the looting and staples and long travel times make the train uncompetitive against aircraft. That's where the development potential lies, and that's where we can get CO2 emitted down, by taking an extraordinary grip to get the Ringerix track built and then the rest of the Bergensbanen, so that the journey time comes down in four hours. The Bergensbanen has meant an incredible amount for busses, businesses and social development along the whole track. This societal mission needs to be renewed and modernised so that an efficient railway becomes an important social developer in a renewable age. It is a great wish to create a fixed timetable for the development of the path. First, it's the Ringerix track and the E16 Voss–Bergen, and then it's the rest of the stretch in a new and mandatory plane. The Bergensbanen is a safe investment for Norway, with zero risk, and will have great economic and social significance in the future, for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3354	I would also like to start by thanking Lise Christoffersen for travelling this interpellation debate, and which comes after one of the Swedes who helped build the Bergensbanen more than a hundred years ago, it is a pleasure to discuss the matter from the Stortings pulpit. In the coming years, many good transport projects in the West will be built. In our part of the country, the infrastructure is lagging behind, despite the fact that there is too much export value in Norway. The day the new Minister of Transport was appointed, his party leader said he was assigned to build bridges, and he will do so to ensure that business can grow at a time when the revenues from oil and gas are going to go down, but he will also build tunnels and railways. And we need to build a new road between Bergen and Voss, with tunnels, and a new path, to ensure the security of people's everyday lives. The new Council of State will certainly receive a long list of sandwiches from the county councils when he wants to put together a new national transport plan – as well as from the new Western County Municipality. The representative Masud Gharahkhani said earlier in the debate that for the constituency of Buskerud and for him, the new ring rail and the E16 were the most important project for his constituency. And I want to say clearly as a representative from the Hordaland constituency that the joint project with a new road and path between Bergen and Voss is the most important transport project in my region. It's at the top of the list because the new road provides safety on a razed route to Norway's worst road, and because the new route between Bergen and Voss provides us with a climate-friendly transport and is a crucial contribution to getting the journey time on Bergensbanen, between Bergen and Oslo, down for four hours. The track was finished in 1883. It's almost 150 years ago, and the line is almost unchanged. We are in the process of modernising the Voseban. It's being built too fully between Bergen and Arna, with a new tunnel. The planning between Arna and Stanghelle is on its way to the end, and we know that the State Road Service has an organisation to plan further between Stanghelle and Voss, but the State Road Service needs an order from the Ministry of Transport to make a municipal plan. It would stop the continuity of the project. We know that such a plan costs $30 million. kr. It is three years since the Workers' Party proposed the same thing in this Chamber, three years since it was voted down, but I hope again that there will be such an order from the Ministry of Transport. The new Minister of Transport has here a national project to link our two largest cities, where half of it will take place in the Council of State's own country. An abbreviated mountain range between Bergen and Voss – and on the other hand between Sandvika and Hønefoss – is a national project with a huge regional significance for the whole of South Norway. Therefore, at the end of my speech, I would like to repeat that for the Workers' Party in the West, in the West, this is the most important transport project in our region by a new national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3367	Thank you to the interpellant for travelling an important matter. Oslo–Bergen in four hours is possible if there is political will – political will to link our country together, to invest in safe and climate-friendly infrastructure between our two largest cities, and to invest in state and regional development in the many larger and smaller railway areas that are today. The Bergensbane has in its time been worth an entire state budget, as many have said, but it showed the political will – at that time – and according to the high-speed distribution, the Bergensbane is today referred to as the route where one will get the most benefit by least using investment funds. Railway between Bergen and Oslo has great potential to take both far more passengers and greater quantities of goods than today’s situation. Several have also indicated that the Bergen-Oslo route is one of the most busy routes in Europe. That's what it says. In February 2012, Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa sent an order to develop a common road and track plan on the Arna–Voss route, and the State Road and Railway Administration recommended the concept of K5 as a combination solution for road and track. The conclusion of the KVU was that it was necessary to extend the entire section of Arna-Voss in order to meet the requirements of the Tunnel Directive, i.e. as a single measure. The government recommended this concept option, and it was very welcome in the west, including from users of E16. That road was routed in 2018 to Norway's most dangerous road, and there are special meeting accidents that distinguish this route from other national roads. In traffic accidents, there are often closures, and bypasses have very low standards, so that there are often very long queues, and there is also a very challenging situation. In the period 2014–2018, the road was closed approx. 1 000 hours: 42 days divided into 200 events. It's pointed at 300 points of race on the distance. And with climate change – wetter and wilder weather – the race is getting bigger, and there's now a race where one was pretty sure there wasn't a race. Bergen–Voss is a national project. If the road between Bergen and Voss is blocked, it is not only the road between Bergen and Voss that is being closed, but it is actually the road between Bergen and Oslo. It is not always understood in national media. The K5 option is brilliant, because it's good for both road and track, and it'll be cheaper to build it out together. For the railway, of course, it's a challenge that it takes almost as long as it took a hundred years ago. One still has a speed limit of 40 km/h. But for the railways, there are also challenges that there are no racially safe trajectories, and it is only luck that has caused no more human lives to be lost in all the different situations that have existed. So in Hordaland, it was joy when the government chose K5, and it was frustration when the government postponed the bet to the second half of NTP. There will be despair if K5 road and path again are postponed and the government does not see that one must give priority to life and health first. I understand that many people are busy getting shorter travel time, commuter alarms, extended bus and work area. It's also important in Hordaland, but when it's like people are afraid to take the train, when people are afraid to drive the route by car, there's also another dimension above this priority. Short travel is important, but above all, a person must be safe and not afraid of his own life and health. In fact, many people feel that way. What I want to challenge the Council of State is three questions: Will the Council of State give priority to life and health first, also in its priorities in the transport sector here? How do the State Councils assess the extra cost framework? And will the government send an order to the State Road Service, so that the planned Stanghelle–Voss can continue continuously when Arna-Stanghelle is scheduled for 2020-2021?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3386	Tomorrow's the start of the fast. Now I'm probably not a prominent representative of a fasting lifestyle, but that means today it's «feet Tuesday». I listened with great interest to the Minister for Transport's response to the interview from Lise Christoffersen, but I must say that I think he served quite a meager diet in his post. I can kind of understand that, because it hasn't lacked a greasy diet before when the three present and a former government party in campaign have marked what they want with the Ringerix Railway and other sections of the route. Then there has been cake pissing a lot, both at Sundvollen, the Trønderbanen and elsewhere. But where do we get the results? Where are the concrete actions of railway policy? I think people living in the Ring Kingdom, in Hallingdal, in the West and elsewhere, now will see the spade in the earth. Where is the maintenance promised by the government parties? They were even promised a powerful service. Now it's time we started building the Ringerik Railway. Then we have to start a new railway between Arna and Voss and other measures that are necessary on the Bergensbanen to bring down the journey time between Bergen and Oslo. I want to talk today about the Ringeriksbanen/E16 joint project, which it is very important to get started as part of Bergensbanen's abbreviation. The impatience is great. I asked a question earlier this year, more specifically on 7 January, to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Monika Mæland, and it was quite simple: When will the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation adopt a State regulatory plan for the Ringeriksbanen/E16? I did not get an answer to that, and I asked the question again. The answer was then answered on 21 January, when the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation said: ‘I therefore aim to be able to adopt the plan within a short period of time.’ [[...]] It has been decided that the Ringeriksbanen/E16 joint project will be built with a state regulatory plan, and I think there has been a broad consensus on that. The reason for choosing a State regulatory plan is, among other things, that one wishes to speed up the planning process. But now it has been nine months in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, and the government has not yet been able to reach a decision. So my question to the Minister of Transport is, what's going on? The Minister of Transport has quite small children, and if they ask him anything, and he says that they should do it in a short time, I think the impatience breaks if it goes one week, two weeks, three weeks, four weeks, five weeks and still nothing has happened. I think that people's perception of 'in a short time' is not consistent with the exasperation that we now see in the government. I noticed that the government council of Hareide said that things don't always go any faster with state control plans. No, that's an example of this, but it's the government that can do something about it. Therefore again: When does the Ringeriksbanen/E16 control plan arrive, and when does one start construction? I would very much like the Minister of Transport to say that it is in the dialogue between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation that the project and the regulatory plan are now being delayed. I really hope it is not the case that the Ministry of Transport is holding back because they do not have the money to start the expansion. I must also hope that the Minister for Transport said to look at it more closely in the national transport plan, concerns the further development of the Bergensbahnen, not to get started on the Ringeriksbahnen. It is part of the existing national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3408	As the representative Myrli had in mind, on 15 January of this year, he asked the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, Mæland, when the Ringeriksbanen/E16 government regulatory plan would be adopted. On 21 January, Monica Meland replied ‘in a short time’. She also added in the answer that the project had a high priority. Today we write February 25th. I wonder what'short time' and 'high priority' really mean for the government. On 30 August 2015 Erna Solberg, Siv Jensen, Trine Skei Grande and Knut Arild Hareide stood at Sundvollen in Hole and promised to start construction for Ringeriksbanen/E16 in 2019. 2019 is, as we all know here, over – it was last year. Since 2015 we have always heard that the project has a high priority. At the same time, the project has been exposed and exposed. The municipalities of the Ring ix region have been led by national teams to plan and facilitate the growth that will bring about the development of the Ring ix and E16. Those leaders have followed up the municipalities. They have made plans that mean that they can help Oslo with the growth problem that exists in the capital area, and they have facilitated, as they were to do, by, for example, The municipality of Ringere has adopted a new urban plan that facilitates greater development around, among other things. Henfoss station. In Hole they've arranged by taking in a new station, and you want a cross. I hope the Minister of Transport will also be able to give priority to a cross at Helgelandsmoen in what is to come. Now a lot has been said in this debate too, so I will not repeat everything, but I have to repeat one more thing: The state control plan for the Ringeriksbanen and E16 was delivered to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on 20 May 2019. It's a good pregnancy since. Now it's time to give birth, i.e. adopt the regulatory plan and build the path. I hope that the Minister of Transport can promise us today that he will do what he can in government to have the regulation plan adopted soon, and then soon in the sense that a child would see as soon, so that we can start building, for the promise from the time party leader of the Christian People's Party, Knut Arild Hareide, in 2015 was that one should start building in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3419	Speaking of fasting – this is to the representative Myrli, I would say – I have taken my precautions, because I have swallowed some camels. It's been heavy. They've been hairy, and they've been big. There's a lot of people who know about it. I've said it sometimes, including from this pulpit, I think. The first camel was that we wanted a different trajectory for the Ringeriks course. We said that early on, just as the Center Party said, because you should remember that now this path and the road are crossing and touching in these Ramsar areas – very, very valuable wetlands that I signed were in and map for the first time when I worked at the County of Buskerud. I was the one who got them more or less peace, I think, the Jewel and the Syndicate and several of these areas. It's hard to see this happening, and I had hoped that we'd got a different trajectory. It was the first camel. The second camel is: Why in the world build the four-field highway before we see the need for a modern, fast, two-track railway, which, of course, takes part of the economic base away from the railway and is very land-consuming – not least over these valuable areas, with cultivated land and cultural landscapes? What is the logic of that? When this is said, and after the majority here in the Chamber voted against our primary proposals, I have been a hard and powerful driver to get the Ringerix track in place as soon as possible. Most people in this room know that too. It is essential to bring down travel time to Bergen in order to bring down air traffic, and it is important for both the development of business and housing, both in the region of ring ix and, in fact, also in the hallingdal region. We've got a lot of evidence on this, and both regions have worked well to prepare. Not least the municipalities have. It concerns Hole, it concerns Ringerijke kommune and insofar also the Hallingdal municipalities. But it is particularly the Ring Kingdom municipality that has been prepared. There have been some sums here, so there are plans for a three-year investment of 2 billion. kr. It's quite violent. Nor should we underestimate tourism, and that this is actually a kind of gate up towards Hallingdal and further across to the West, on a very attractive tourist trail. In the future, there will be more and more conscious travelers coming from the continent. They want green gates, green strips up to their holiday destination, and that's also how the trip is part of the holiday. Then the Ringeriksbanen will be part of this – Bergensbanen and its abbreviation. It was mentioned that our new government council was involved in eating cake at Sundvollen. It's been many years, and the cake had to do with celebration, of course. The spade was to be placed in the ground in 2019. I'm not going to hoove it any more, but it's sad to see that this has been exposed again and again. But I want to point out one thing, and it's a advice -- you have to be a little honest in politics, and I've asked for it many times -- because I actually don't think that almost any of those who have made posts here today, if they'd been sitting as state council, would have done so much more than the Council of State and former government councils have done, because they've gone on an economic hit at InterCity. We know this. That's why several people have now said that they will give priority to it – in Hordaland, it was said, and in Buskerud. The fold was not mentioned. Of course it is because we have huge problems in Eastfold. Everyone here is sitting with colleagues in Eastfold. This is not an easy matter – there are heavy exceedances in several places. My point is that if I'm going to try to ask the Council of State for something, it's going to be going into the total budgets of traffic and prioritizing something different. SV's trying to do it. We have now asked for some of the road standards and the money we spend on the giant tomato on the highways, and to move money to the railway. This is one of my approaches. As the Council of State knows, we're going to have an interview about exactly this if not too long, and I've also come up with more questions and angles on numbers around this. I'll see if I can get some time to elaborate on this in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3438	I would like to start by thanking the debate, both the co-representatives who contributed, and the Council of State. We may not have quite received the answers we hoped for, but as a colleague from Buskerud, Morten Wold, said: Where it is will, it is way – and way. We're going to hope he's right, and that's not like that in Peer Gynt's meeting with the green man, where he said, «Yes, think it; wish it; would it with – but do it! No; I don't understand!' Let's hope we get better out of that jumping edge. A lot of people have come up with costs. In the case of the Ringerix and E16, that particular project is more than acceptable in the NTP context, as in general. In three weeks' time, it's the government's budget conference. I think that the new Council of Transport States can really quite bram-freely beat the table at that government conference and say that it is actually an unisonous big thing that says that the Bergensbanen is the most important transport project we have in Norway, whether they come from the east side or west side of the mountains, or they come from different political parties. So use it for what it's worth! Some figures have been mentioned that illustrate how important it is. The number of travelers with the Bergensbanen is high, and there may be even more. 1,530 trailers are saved every week by 64 freight trains on that track, and we can't take more goods on the road, so we can save even more by realising the project. Municipal Plan Stanghelle – Voss should be ordered now so that Vegvesenet can start planning as soon as the plan is completed. It's called rational resource use, and it's probably also agreed by the Council of State. Business needs Bergensbanen for further growth. Norway needs more jobs and increased levels of employment. The Ringerix region has a potential of plus-minus 10000 new jobs. Nävra mentioned Hallingdal. In that valley, 20 000 people live. On Friday 2019, 120 000 mobile phones were measured in that valley. It says a little bit about the potential, but all the future tourists can't come by car. There's no room on the roads, and it can't stand our environment. In the west, Bergen grows east, and then you need a new intercity Bergen–Voss, just to mention something. The Bergensbanen is socially profitable in all ways. We want start-up funds in the budget for 2021. I understand that it has to be given priority, but an unisoned increase has given the Council of State full support to demand money for the important project that Bergensbanen is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3454	I think the interpellant Lise Christoffersen must be very pleased with this debate. There was great enthusiasm in the Stortinget for the projects we have discussed, the importance of the Bergensbanen and, of course, a significant outrage after starting the important work. When I heard the representative Lundtigen, it almost sounded as if he were managing the regulatory work. That's the way I could interpret him. Then there are some people who have commented that I have eaten cake in Sundvollen, and that is true. It's not always a complaint that I eat too much cake, but when it's about the intention of the Ringerix course – to understand that project, how important it is – I'm going to say that it has been a project that, although it has looked dark, has actually survived and come forward again and again, because the benefits are so great for society, in a two-part dimension. It's because it means so much to the Hønefoss region, it means a lot to Oslo – as close as it is here – just to get that project, and not least to make dramatists praise Bergen. That is what we have experienced in this debate. Then I want to say, and I think it was the representative Igstad who mentioned it: when I was the leader of the transport committee, and it's not that many years ago, I saw some railway budgets that were quite different in size from what is today. Yes, in fact, today's rail budget is three times as big, only in 2020, as it was in the single years I managed the transport committee, ten to eleven years ago. It shows that we have invested significantly, but we have a challenge with the increase in costs we have in part of our projects. It's a common challenge for us who want to bet on just the railway. I understand illegitimately. I'll take it with me. I'm not here today to give some final dates, but I'm taking the lead that this debate has pointed out so clearly. And then I've been asked a question of security. It was the representative Kjersti Toppe who took it up. Just the security dimension makes the K5 project so important, and I also think that's why the region is so gathering behind that project, and that it's such an outrageous link to it. I'm taking with me the enthusiasm, it's outrageous. I may disappoint some with the specific dates today, but I focus on the projects that we have debated well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3467	That is when the debate is on case No. 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3485	We nordics live in maybe the best country in the world to grow up in. It is a peaceful country where you can experience a safe childhood and enjoy most of the fundamental freedoms – the freedom to choose a good education, the freedom to choose your friends and the freedom to find someone to fall in love with and perhaps marry. For many Norwegian youths, however, Norway is not the same as for the rest of us. At least 400 Norwegian children and young people must have been sent abroad against their will in the last two years. Several of these include: held in Quran schools, and as the NRK and others have revealed, also Quran schools where there is systematic and brutal violence against the youth, and also torture. Other youths experience being coerced, pressured and tricked into marriage against their will. Several of the Koran schools to which Norwegian youth are sent are advertised as so-called rehabilitation centres for displaced or too Western youths who have forgotten their culture. Several of these Qur'an schools also lose the opportunity to communicate with the outside world. Many want, but are unable to get in touch for help – others dare not contact to get help out of fear of consequences if they are revealed. It is a pity, therefore, that several of those who contact to get help experience meeting what they feel is a cold shoulder. For many of the young people in such misery abroad, contact with Norwegian foreign stations is often their last chance – the very hope of getting home to freedom and away from the miserable and involuntary life they are in. I have a great deal of understanding that there will always be limitations and limits to what foreign stations and other public services can contribute in such situations, and that expectations can often be greater than the realistic possibilities for assistance. But I think that the Norwegian people, the political environment and the people involved, expect them to be well received and given help and guidance, and that the room to help is used as well as possible when children and young people in such desperate and vulnerable situations come into contact with Norwegian embassies or other public authorities for help. As is publicly known, I also helped an 18-year-old Norwegian girl leave an involuntary Koran School in Africa and come back to Norway last year. I will also give tribute to Project Freedom, to Shurika Hansen, who helped this girl, and to everyone else, who among others. the organisation LIM, by Secretary-General Dana Manoucheri, who are firemen and important organisations trying to help young people in similar desperate situations. My interpellation is in no way about the specific matter I referred to earlier, but the strong experience gave me important experiences and room for reflection, which is the background for me to address this matter. The girl in the matter I referred to, made several calls for help to both embassies and public authorities, but she herself felt that she did not get significant help to get out of the situation she was in. There may be good reasons for this, or aspects of the matter we here do not have full knowledge of, but when she herself in desperation, with the help of others, as a legitimate 18-year-old, planned a flight legally away from the life in which she was placed, in connection with her having to pick up a new passport at a Norwegian embassy in the neighbouring country, she felt that the foreign station could not facilitate the use of another exit, so that she could avoid a confrontational situation with the family. For the girl it was, and for many others, it probably felt unreasonable. This was probably the smallest form of help and organization the people involved had expected. As I have said before, I have great respect for the constraints of foreign stations and public authorities in such cases, and it should just be lacking that there are no borderlines that need to be respected. But we also have an obligation to help children and young people who are in a vulnerable and desperate situation abroad against their will, among other things. because they're sent to violent Qur'an schools. Unfortunately, more young people suffer such a fate today. One single Norwegian child or one single Norwegian youth who contacts an embassy or public body in the hope of getting away from such a desperate situation, but who does not experience serious or adequate help, is one too much. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore as follows: How are children and young people meeting with Norwegian embassies to get help to get home from abroad, and what will the Minister for Foreign Affairs do to facilitate a good meeting of several of these vulnerable young people, so that they do not feel rejected?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3510	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has provided consular assistance in the case of Gulati mentions in his interpellation. The EEAS worked on the matter over a long time. There was extensive contact between the person concerned, the embassy and the consular department in the U.D. As the representative Gulati well knows, I cannot go into the details of this as this is a consular matter, and for the sake of professional secrecy, I cannot say anything more about how it was followed up. I think it makes sense at the outset that I say that the number used by the representative in its introduction – i.e. there are at least 415 Norwegian children who should have been sent abroad against their will in the last two years – is not based on figures from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is a statistical estimate, and it is not a figure that the EEAS or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can do well. Nevertheless, let me underline the importance and the obvious as also the representative Gulati mentions. It is that in cases where Norwegian children and young people contact Norwegian embassies and say that they have been sent to or are staying abroad against their will, issues that are highly prioritised in the EEAS. These matters are handled within the framework of the consular assistance provided by the EEAS. As in other matters, consular assistance can be very inflexible and different. It may be to issue emergency passports, but it may also be to issue other travel documents for repatriation. Where appropriate, the embassy may establish contact with family and friends to ask them to assist, for example: with money and tickets. The EEAS will be able to provide advice and guidance to those who make contact and tell them that they are involuntary abroad. The follow-up of the EEAS is also in line with the Government’s action plan to combat negative social control, forced marriage and gender mutilation. Of course, the representative Gulati, who was even the State Secretary at the SMK, also knows this action plan. One of the measures implemented in the action plan was to further develop the system of integration advisors at foreign stations. The embassies of Amman, Ankara, Islamabad and Nairobi have special missions with peak competence on negative social control, forced marriage, sexual mutilation and honour-related violence. The Special Envoys also assist other embassies. They also contribute to enhancing the competence of service providers in Norway through empowerment measures and advice and guidance in individual cases. Integration advisors work within the consular assistance framework when following up matters abroad. In order to strengthen the knowledge base, the government has set up an expert group to review individual cases where young people have been left abroad and how they have been followed up when they return to Norway. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has assisted the expert group in obtaining information on the work done in this field in other countries as well. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also helped to put the expert group in contact with vulnerable persons who have received consular assistance and who wish to share their experiences. The report of the expert group is scheduled to be launched in March. The government believes that efforts to combat negative social control should and must be given priority. Last year, we strengthened our efforts against negative social control and honor-related violence by 28 million. kr. It will continue in 2020. The government will therefore also continue and strengthen its efforts with a new action plan that will apply from 2021 to 2024. Today, there are seven departments working together on the measures in the plan, and there are many social sectors across, because there are, as the representative points out in his interpellation, often complex issues. Children and young people who seek out the EEAS for assistance because they are in a difficult situation will be and will be met in a professional manner. It is important that Norwegian authorities assist children and young people in the current framework and legislation. The EEAS attaches great importance to ensuring that equal cases are treated in the same way as possible. At the same time, concrete assessments must be made on each case, and the evaluation of consular assistance offers will provide a wide range of considerations, such as: the on-site safety situation, local legislation, consular resources available, shall be relevant. Then I would like to point out a particular issue that I find we encounter more often and more often in these matters, and that is dual citizenship. It is a particular challenge because links with several countries lead to more complex cases, and it is a major challenge to provide consular assistance by the Norwegian authorities. The reason for this is that the country where the person, often involuntaryly, resides, will regard the person as their national and ignore Norwegian citizenship. This means that the Norwegian authorities’ ability to provide consular assistance is also reduced. The Storting unanimously supported the Consular Assistance Storing Message and the principle that similar cases should be treated equally. Nevertheless, I would also point out that consular matters are often naturally the subject of great and growing attention in the media as well as in public opinion. In some cases, organisations or individuals may attempt to use media coverage in order to obtain an increased level of service from Norwegian authorities in connection with an ongoing case. We have experienced many cases in recent years that, in some cases, media involvement and exposure of exposed persons in cases may contribute to the deterioration of the situation of the exposed person, simply because of exposure. It is because in many cases we have to work a little under the radar with different national authorities in order to get a solution in the matter that the type of exposure can sometimes make the situation worse and more difficult to solve for Norwegian authorities, and thus also put the victim in a worse situation. We also experience that many concepts are used in one another, and it is important to emphasise that ‘child Abduction’, ‘leaved’ and ‘involuntary detention’ are different types of cases that require different follow-up. The assistance provided by the EEAS in matters relating to children must also be followed up in line with parental responsibility, and parental responsibility is well known in Norwegian law. The starting point for cases involving minors is that parents have both the right and the obligation to make decisions for their own children. When a child has become a member, it is no longer defined as a child, and the EEAS can then assist the person without involving the person or persons who previously had parental responsibility. It may seem obvious, but I want to point it out since this consular matter it is referred to, started when the girl was a minor and was closed – as the representative was inside – on her return journey after she had reached the age of 18. The government's aim was to clarify public authorities' responsibilities and opportunities to help abandoned children abroad in both prevention and follow-up when they return to Norway. Bufdir has, in cooperation with other Norwegian authorities, inter alia: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has drawn up cross-annual guidelines on the survivors of children. The guidelines contain information on the identification and follow-up of auxiliary staff and the services to be notified. Norwegian authorities may provide limited assistance to children once they have been left abroad. The guidelines review what assistance is then provided when the child is abroad and is left behind. It is important to stress that Norwegian authorities and Norwegian legislation have limited scope abroad. The expectations of what the EEAS can assist, as the representative Gulati is also involved in his interpellation, also in cases where children and young people have been sent abroad against their will, are in many cases very high. But the EEAS must deal with the international legal framework and the rules of the host country and cannot assist them. Nor do we want to accept that other countries implement their rights in Norway, and that is really the same principle, which is about both sovereignty and international law. The type of assistance that the foreign service can provide abroad therefore depends on the laws and regulations of the country in which it is located. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the embassy of the country in which the exposed person is located cooperates with the team of experts against rape, gender mutilation and negative social control. The competence team is a national inter-territorial team, such as: advises the auxiliary unit in case of involuntary stay abroad and coordinates the contact between the U.D. and the auxiliary unit in Norway in the event of a return journey. Efforts made in individual cases need to be followed up with relevant actions in Norway because we need to have good and lasting solutions for individuals at home. Children and young people who are in vulnerable situations and who are in contact with Norwegian embassies are a high priority of the EEAS. We will continue to provide the best possible help and communication. What we cannot do is to facilitate assistance that could be contrary to Norwegian and local frameworks and legislation, and not least by the fact that the danger to the lives and health of the victim can become both acute and real.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3544	I want to start by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer, and for the fact that these issues concerning children who are abroad against their will are highly priority issues in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am pleased to read and learn more about the report that was mentioned that is coming, and will point out that I agree on the dilemmas and difficult aspects that often arise in such cases. At the same time, I would like to mention that we have to take seriously the many stories out there that young people who are in such a desperate situation even feel that they have not been taken seriously, even though I understand that it is a subjective assessment. But it provides a basis for evaluation and learning. At the outset, I would just like to point out that the report I referred to is a report from Oslo Economics, which has been prepared on order from the Ministry of Knowledge, based on the figures that the municipalities themselves have. But these numbers aren't exactly science. My only concern is that those in such a difficult and desperate situation will be helped to get out of it. It can often be dangerous and also impossible for many who are in such a situation, even to initiate a return to Norway, whether through rescue operations or other things. It is not an ideal or desirable way for them to come back to Norway and freedom. But when we know that there are several things that apply – and the NRK has, among other things, documented how concrete schools abroad where we know it has been found and are still in Norwegian youth, are engaged in both systematic violence and torture – we need to find a way to help more people out of this situation, without jeopardising their security or worsening their situation. My last question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be: Will the Minister take the initiative to contact the authorities in those countries where we know there are schools to which Norwegian young people have been regularly sent and to which we also have strong reason to believe that Norwegian youth are currently opposed to their will – Quran schools and similar institutions? One example is Somalia, which is a country that points out in that context, but there are other countries as well. My question, then, is whether the Minister will take the initiative to contact the authorities in these countries to try to bring back young people who are in these countries against their will.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3557	I also think it might be useful to get expert group assessments and evaluations based on the work done. The reason why we started it was that we wanted to get better knowledge of what mechanisms we need to be aware of before children are involuntarily left abroad. The reason I mention it is – as I was a little bit into my post – that we see that we have the best opportunity to help before children come abroad. Many of these will be known in various ways in the auxiliary equipment, and the question is also, although it is not a question for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as such, whether we are able to talk well enough together, know the issues and in that way try to prevent children from coming to the rest of the world and being left involuntarily there. The possibility of assistance is much greater than when they first arrived abroad. I was concerned with several factors that do. One is about sovereignty and the fact that Norwegian laws and regulations obviously do not apply abroad, but it is also about the fact that in the case of double citizenship, in which we have many of them, the country in which you live will typically ignore Norwegian citizenship and make it more difficult for Norwegian authorities to help, because they are not considered Norwegian citizens, but for example. as a Somali or Pakistani citizen. It's clear that it's facing us with some challenges. When it comes to the question of being able to contact the authorities, it must never be completely forgotten that these are individual cases. That means that we have to be sure that there are people who want our help and our help. If that is the case, we will deal with matters – as I mentioned in the slightly more complementary main article – in a specific way, where as much as possible the same issues are treated equally. We have no authority to go in and e.g. require the closure of Koran Schools in Somalia, for Norwegian law does not apply in these countries. But, of course, we want to have as good a dialogue as possible with the authorities of different countries where this issue regularly arises, and where Norwegian citizens are involved at regular intervals. The other constraint that I was also a little bit into, and that's a very real constraint, is that as long as the children are minors, parental responsibility applies in full. That is, we can't essentially go in and override the choices that parents make. The choices that parents make on behalf of their children may sometimes be very difficult to understand, but that is the starting point, and that Norwegian legislation does not apply abroad, which means that we do not have the coercive means, in other contexts, to use in Norway. They won't be available to us abroad. But within the limits that apply, and with the very strong desire to be able to assist and help, we obviously work on these issues, and the fact that we have had these special advisors at four embassies, who are now also working very well to advise other embassies, has been a very important help both in mapping and in actually being able to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-25.ana.ud419e3570	If the interpellant so wishes, he may now take the floor for a closing post. So it does not seem, and the debate in case No. 11 is over. As a result, the matters on today's map have also been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? So it doesn't seem, and the meeting is cancelled.
