ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e52	An application for a permit to provide care for the representative of Bjørn Moxnes was submitted to the Rødt Storingsgruppe on 22 April. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara Representative of Oslo, Seher Aydar, is hereby invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e72	Seher Aydar is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e90	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the rapporteur, 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e97	I want to start by thanking the Committee for the cooperation in what is a very serious matter. There are different definitions of isolation, but the Communication refers to the European Torture Prevention Committee, the UN standard minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners, i.e. the Mandela Codes, and the Istanbul Declaration of Use and the Adverse Effects of Isolation. The Ombudsman uses isolation in situations where prisoners are locked in on a cell much of the day because of safety or control considerations, on his own request, building and manning conditions or other conditions in prison. We know that isolation is harmful for both mental and somatic health. It is also particularly harmful to the health of already vulnerable groups. In the hearing held by the Committee, representatives of former prisoners were also quite clear that isolation makes the way back to a good life in society more and more difficult. The Civil Ombudsman himself and several of the hearing bodies, including: Norway’s human rights institution points out that the isolation of Norwegian prisons may involve violations of the absolute ban on torture, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment of human rights. It's serious. One of the ombudsmen's findings is that there is a great lack of statistics, knowledge and management information on the use of insulation. It's alarming, especially when this has been pointed out for a long time. However, although the figures are poor, we know that isolation and lack of human contact are a widespread problem in Norwegian prisons, and that several prisoners are isolated for several months, and some over years. The civil officer finds several reasons for this. One is that Norwegian legislation lacks rules that give prisoners the right to have at least eight hours outside the cell daily and to be able to carry out meaningful activities in jointly arranged premises. A unanimous committee notes that, in some cases, legislation sets too low a threshold for the use of insulation, such as: when insulation is used as a control measure to maintain order and safety. Furthermore, a Joint Committee also considers that a wide access to isolation is not in line with international human rights standards, which require that isolation be used only in exceptional cases and under fully defined, specific criteria. But perhaps the main cause of isolation is construction, manning and resources. As rapporteur of the case, I myself visited Oslo prison, and the message from both employees and prisoners was quite clear there, as in the consultation notice, that these factors are the main causes. Therefore, it is good that a joint committee welcomes the construction of new prison buildings, points to the need for resources, especially for staffing, and believes that adequate resources must be provided, so that the manning situation in prisons does not increase the use of isolation. The civil officer also finds that there are deficiencies in the follow-up by the State to prisoners who are exposed to isolation. In particular, the Committee notes that Norwegian legislation and practices do not comply with international human rights standards with regard to day-to-day health supervision requirements for isolated workers and that in a number of cases the Ombudsman has revealed that prisoners with some serious health problems have been isolated for a long time, without health care supervision. Therefore, a Joint Committee assumes that the health follow-up of isolated persons must comply with international human rights standards. Finally, it is particularly important that those who are exposed to isolation be provided with legal certainty in such a vulnerable situation, with the opportunity to complain and address their case. It is therefore very worrying that the Ombudsman finds that the supervisory board does not meet the standards set out in, for example: the European prison rules or the Mandela rules. At the bottom: I am pleased that a joint committee therefore asks the government to take action and propose to the Storting the necessary legislative changes in order to follow up the recommendations and report back to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e127	Thank you to the rapporteur for a thorough job on an important topic. It does not belong to everyday life that the Civil Ombudsman feels the need to make a separate notification to the Stortinget. The content of the communication justifies the level of seriousness, which the rapporteur has described in a very good way. If isolation is carried out for practical or economic reasons, it is contrary to international human rights standards and it does not enter Norwegian society. It is important, as the rapporteur pointed out, that we have clear rules on how much human contact also those who are in isolation should have, but not least that the health follow-up is also good. It was said in the hearing, by the health director, that it was an area they focused on. I am pleased that the Minister of Health has also found it right to be present when dealing with this matter, because the health follow-up will be a key element in improving the points pointed out by the Civil Ombudsman. It is important to have the necessary legal frameworks and the necessary legal regulation, and it is also important that the legal frameworks that exist are actually followed. I'm a little concerned that it won't seem like this critical report is a criticism of those who work in criminal matters. Because they are in an exceptionally difficult situation in their everyday lives, partly also because we, the majority of the Storting, have put them in that situation. Year after year with so-called ABE cut – a word to cover the fact that there is simply a flat cut in the economy – we have been told by the criminal services that it goes beyond everyday life in the form of care to ensure that those who will become our neighbours in the future can develop in a positive direction in prison. There is also some of the basis for what we have specifically for treatment here today. One of the important points in the follow-up to this case is that one sees the consequences of reducing the activity and opportunities for development in prison, making it more difficult to do good work for those in charge of criminal care. It's our responsibility to make sure they have the laws, the rules and the resources to do it. I agree with the rapporteur's statement and stress the need for the recommendations made here by the Civil Ombudsman to be followed up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e138	First of all, thank you to the President-in-Office for a good cooperation in an important matter. This message reveals conditions and weaknesses in our prison system that we have to do something about. The Norwegian authorities have received several international criticisms for the use of isolation in prison, and in particular those with mental health challenges. Having contact with other people is one of the most basic human needs and is a prerequisite for good mental health. This also applies to people in prison. Lack of human contact can have major health consequences, both psychologically and physically, and the findings of the communication show that there is a high degree of isolation in our prisons. Unfortunately, we don't have enough data on the actual size. Fortunately, it is now working to put in place management tools, because it is important that there is a good knowledge base for ensuring that measures are accurate, so as to reduce the use of insulation and limit any adverse effects. 92 pst. of the prisoners have signs of mental illness. Several are isolated over long periods, which in turn leads to further poor mental health. It can often be challenging to get qualitatively good mental health care to the prisoners, and prison staff lack competence to deal with serious mental illness. We also know that many people are struggling with suicidal thoughts, and sick prisoners are often throwing balls between short stays in psychiatric day care and then right back to isolation in prison without having received treatment. In the hearing, Health Director Bjørn Guldvog said that they saw with concern the Civil Ombudsman’s message and that they would follow the recommendations. He pointed out that the Health Directorate has already recommended to the Ministry of Health and Welfare the establishment of local specialist health services for mental health and drug problems in all Norwegian prisons, i.e. that specialised treatment skills can now be acquired in prisons, and that is good. In the hearing, both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health said that they take the Civil Ombudsman's message very seriously. Reducing the use of isolation in prisons is a high priority, and it is also stated in the government platform. The Health Minister has asked the Health Directorate, in the 2020 letter of allocation, to revise the Prison Health Executive to be professionally up-to-date and in line with international human rights recommendations. The findings of the Civil Ombudsman’s communication make it clear how important cooperation is across ministries when responsibility for a service has as overlapping interfaces as it is in prison. When such a large proportion of prisoners are struggling with mental health challenges, it is both rational and best to provide mental health care where prisoners are, rather than transporting prisoners to outpatient treatment outside prison. Closer and more committed cooperation between criminal and health services is an important measure to prevent unnecessary isolation in Norwegian prisons, and such cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health is welcomed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e153	I also want to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough work and a good report. As many have been involved here, there is an overall committee that looks seriously at the findings that have been presented. It draws a serious picture of isolation in Norwegian prisons. Nevertheless, although the Progress Party is not now part of the government, we have been part of all the budgets that have been in the last six years – including the budget for the current year – and I want to stress that Norwegian prisons are good. At the same time, these findings show that we have a good deal to work with. I have been in the Justice Committee for nearly six years as a case rapporteur during these years at Stortinget, visiting a lot of prisons and talking to many inmates. And what you've been talking about is the use of isolation and how everyday life is in prison. We also know that very many of the prisoners are struggling with mental illness, and that mental health, as was also mentioned before, is a major part of the everyday life and life that the prisoners have. That is why it is so important that the Minister of Health is also present here. I would say that this government, with the support of the Progress Party – we have also had the Minister of Justice for six years – has truly taken on board the cooperation on mental health and criminal justice. This is the first government that has really taken on the task of working together between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health to do something that improves the everyday lives of those with mental health challenges in prison. I am not saying that the findings that have come are not serious. It's important that we take it with us, and that it's also part of the work when we're going to work on the criminal code. We have done a good job, as the rapporteur said, on construction, both by building new prisons and by rehabilitating and maintaining, which is also of great importance. Manning knows we're insensitive. There's nothing to stick under the chair. There is something that needs to be done about – including resources for the prisoner. Nor should we forget that the prisoners are entitled to the same health services as those who are not in prison. It is important that criminal and health services cooperate well with the services that are out in the municipalities so that they can provide help to those in prison. The overall findings are serious. This needs to be followed up in the future through government budgets. But we politicians also need to focus on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e170	First, I would like to thank the case manager for a good job, but I would also like to thank the Civil Ombudsman for sending us this special message. Human rights shall also apply to those in prison. Through the message we are now handling, the Civilombodsman has shown us an image that has not previously been known by your management information in this area is too bad. The Civil Ombudsman has given us this management information in the message. The extent of isolation in prison is extensive and the follow-up of the isolated is weak. Our legislation is not clear enough that insulation should only be used in special cases and for as short a time as possible. There is a high risk of a violation of the prohibition against torture and other unworthy treatment or punishment due to isolation in Norwegian prisons. I would like to point out that the message points to the fact that the widespread use of isolation not only occurs because of the intrusion of its own behaviour, but to a large extent comes from practical and economic challenges in prison. There are also different practices between prisons for the follow-up of health services to those interventions that are isolated. It's coming, among other things. of different organisation. This may indicate that the way in which we operate individual prisons is more important than caring for the human rights of the prisoners. In the Central Party, we are concerned that the practical and economic framework for prisons should secure a crew that will enable Norway to comply with the obligations we have in line with human rights. Many prisoners in Norwegian prisons have mental health problems, and the believe in good and defensive health care for prisoners in Norwegian prisons is high. We believe that the isolation of the seriously mentally ill, in combination with the lack of health care, is particularly critical. We are concerned about re-assessing what means should be used to target the municipal health services in prison, in the light of what the Civil Service Ombudsman describes in the report. We also point to the fact that the tools we already have are not being used properly enough. This is a serious warning when the appeal to the primary care services in prison is reduced by your permission is not used up. We now need to take this report seriously and implement the recommendations made by the Civilombodsman to the Stortinget. It involves ensuring both good governance information through data that gives us information about the use of isolation and a national standard that gives everyone the right to have at least eight hours of social community with meaningful activities every day. We need to amend the criminal enforcement law so that it is in line with our human rights obligations, and there must be a clear obligation in the law and regulation to prevent isolation in prison. There is a need for professional support for both prisoners and health professionals to work on this. We also need a plan to close down or adapt the prison departments that are not currently in place to facilitate social communities. In the Centre Party we are very concerned that for so many years it has our poor management information, control mechanisms and supervisory functions in this area. We think that it has to be reported back to Stortinget every year about the work of following up the recommendations of the Civil Ombudsman. The reporting must show that the situation in prison is changing and that isolation is no longer being used in violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e183	Thanks also from me for coming from the case manager's work. Norwegian criminal services are among the best in the world. There's a lot of attention on rehabilitation, and that those inside are going back to society. Prisoners have a long and thorough education, and those who work in prison are consistently very good, dedicated people. Nevertheless, findings presented in the report to the Civilombodsmann on isolation in Norwegian prisons show a serious picture of the use of isolation. The scope is large, and there is a significant risk that the isolated ones will be subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment – totally unacceptable! Norway has repeatedly been criticised by the UN's Torture Committee for the lack of an overview of the extent of isolation, and in 2018 the Torture Committee expressed concern at the actual isolation in Norwegian prison and considered that there was a large proportion of structural and staff shortages. As seen, it is good that the government focuses on the construction of new prisons and the upgrading and renovation of the elderly. It is also important that we ensure that there are enough people at work in prison, so that not unnecessary isolation is the answer to the manning challenges. In one of the world's richest, most well-organized countries, everyone should be treated well, including insertion. Several studies have shown that the insertion has unfortunately been delayed. Much of it has low education, housing problems, economic difficulties and weak or unstable work relationships. There is generally a high incidence of mental illness. In addition, individuals with mild developmental impairment are overrepresented in Norwegian prisons. Social problems are often linked to challenging growing-up conditions, and many prison inmates in Norway have been subjected to care failures in childhood. An investigation by Fafo showed that 40 pst. had parents who rushed, 30 pst. had been child protection clients, 30 pst. had a family in prison, 70 pst. was unemployed and 30 pst. homeless. Among female intruders, half were exposed to sexual assault. Nevertheless, the legislation does not reflect the fact that insulation should be used only in exceptional cases and for as short a time as possible. The lack of strict and clear deadlines for the duration of isolation is very serious, as the risk of long-term isolation is particularly high. We need to change that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e202	The Civil Ombudsman has presented a constructive report that points to a major challenge in criminal matters. I look very seriously at the challenges of isolation in Norwegian prisons. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has also highlighted the seriousness of the situation. Prison is an important part of social protection against crime. There are many fates and victims behind the statistics on crime. At the same time, it is invasive to hold someone in prison. Neither custody nor punishment shall involve degrading or inhumane treatment. Today, in some cases, prisons are punishable by electronic control outside prison. This has positive aspects, but it also contributes to a total of a more demanding group of those in prison. Among other things, experience shows that it may be difficult to integrate prisoners convicted of sexual assault against children together with other prisoners. The challenges of isolation relate to prisons with a high level of security. Some of these prisons lack Community areas. The government has invested a lot in prison buildings. Furthermore, a new nationally strengthened Community department of Ila prison has been established as a solution for some of the prisoners with the greatest problems of working together with others. A resource team shall also be established at Bergen Prison. During 2021, a new ICT system will be envisaged for criminal services. This will facilitate the provision of management information on the extent of isolation. Furthermore, we are reviewing the legislation on exclusion from the community with other prisoners, with a view to proposing amendments. I also want to ensure that criminal services follow up on efforts to reduce isolation in prison. On behalf of the Department, Professor Eivind Smith has investigated various issues concerning the Supervisory Boards for Criminal Affairs. The ministry received the investigation just before Easter and then followed it up. The situation with covid-19 has required specific measures in prisons. Crime prevention must now prevent both the infectious and the adverse consequences of keeping prisoners apart. This is very demanding. Let me conclude by saying that although we have clear improvement points, we also have good criminal services in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e221	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e226	Since the Council of State mentioned construction and boasts of it, when will the new prison in Agder actually open, and when will the new department in Ila open?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e232	I can't tell the representative exactly the exact date, but according to the plan – and before I know if anything can be postponed due to the coronary situation – Agder will open in the last week in June. In the case of Ila, I dare not say so – I have to come back with the date on. But if everything goes as it should, it will soon be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e237	The reason I'm asking about it is that it's fine with barley, but it's taken time to get them in use. Some of the reasons for this are, of course, the costs of manning and operation. In my post, I was concerned that the Council of State, as many predecessors in the chair, have year after year provided for cuts that criminal services report that means less staffing and less money for activities for the prisoners. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Will she stop it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e242	There is no lack of money to operate construction that means that the new prisons have not been used. They're going according to plan, and the good news about Agder prison is that it's built in a shorter time and much lower budget than what was planned. That's very good. If that's the ABE reform the representative thinks about and was inside his post, I'm a strong supporter of it. It is probably demanding for the state, but it was high time that the state also began to streamline its operations. This is not, moreover, money that disappears from the state budget – there is a possibility that everyone will contribute to an action room that will then be distributed in priority areas. The fact that this government has now managed to prioritize, get the card down and get new constructions in place that make you get less insulation, I think, is very, very important. And the ABE reform is not responsible for the challenges we now see, and we know that we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e249	Until the Council of State says that the money does not disappear from the state budget: they disappear from prison, and they disappear from the resources of them to deal with the problem pointed out by the Civil Ombudsman. I have to say I'm a little surprised when the Council of State stands here and says that the situation we're in has nothing to do with the resource situation. It is obvious that when we have lower crews in prisons and fewer money for activity in prisons, there is some reason why the Civil Ombudsman has to make such a report. Then I get worried, because when the Council of State boasts of the ABE reform and will continue with the flat, blind cuts also in the prison sector, the Council of State also says to the people who are in that situation every day and have to deal with a difficult and demanding situation, where health, psychiatry and other things are related to the isolation situation: No, we're going to keep cutting off the resources that are absolutely crucial. Have I then understood the Council of State correctly? And in that case, wouldn't the Council of State even care what the Civil Ombudsman has pointed out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e256	I think we need to clear up a little bit here. I have now explained that I take very seriously what has been pointed out, and that must be cleaned up. It's about a lot more than money, and I've also explained that. Then it is not cut in the budget – resources have been allocated every year. The general thing I said about the ABE reform is firm. I was a local politician for 14 years, where improving the efficiency was the normal situation in the municipalities, while meeting a state that had no restrictions. That's the normal situation in the business world. So you're going to have 99.5 pst. of their budgets, in addition to being invested. Then you must not use ABE as a defense because you have an isolation problem – because you do, and we have to clear that up. We're doing that with new premises, we're doing that with a new ICT system, we're doing that with legislation, with the supervisory boards. So we're working in a number of areas to do something about this that is recognised to be a significant problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e263	In the Special Notice of the Civil Ombudsman, all employees’ representatives and the management of several prisons are quite clear that too low a crew is an important cause of isolation and lack of community in our prisons. In short, there are too few employees for example. use activity offers with prisoners, who remain on the cell instead. When I visited Oslo prison, it was quite clear. There they have a great gym, which is empty most of the week, because they do not have employees to accompany the prisoners there. In the Committee’s hearing, all the hearing bodies asked were clear on this, except for the then Minister of Justice Kalldmyr. Does the State Council of Malta agree that too low staffing is a cause for the isolation found by the Civil Ombudsman in Norwegian prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e270	Manning can, of course, be one explanation, but it does not explain the situation alone. More money to that will not only solve the situation. It's the way that this is pretty complex. That's probably why this has been a persistent problem, both under the previous one and this government, because it's about several things. I'm busy solving this, but we're not going to solve this with budget increase alone. With the space we see for action now, it's going to be demanding. But we're going to do everything we can to help reduce isolation. It's not a satisfactory situation, and we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e275	I am glad that the Council of State at least partly acknowledges it, as we did not get that recognition in the hearing. There is reason to hope that the resource situation in prisons will improve. An overall committee writes in its statement that adequate resources must be provided, so that the situation in prison does not increase the use of isolation. A related factor, which is also pointed to as an important reason for isolation in Norwegian prisons, is that programme provision has been reduced. There are fewer activities for prisoners outside the cell, so they get more in. The Council of State will ensure that programme offers, for example: no longer being reduced, but increased, so that we can get rid of the part of the isolation problem that is associated with the lack of offers outside the cell?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e282	To be very clear, I promise no more money for the criminal services. It is a budgetary issue that needs to be resolved in a coherent manner. But we can look at how the money is spent. We can look at how criminal services are run. You can look at a lot of other things, which are all about getting isolation down. I am aware that the programme offers have been dropped in some places. I'm not going to promise to take them up again. They're a pretty small part. What we see is that the total activity of prisoners per prison day increased. That's very good, and that's the most important thing. Now, I just have to admit, the situation is completely different. That's because of the Corona situation. However, until we got the figures in 2019, activity increased per prison day per year. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e289	Thank you for that answer. On another theme: The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman said in the hearing that after they had gone through the settlement conditions for women in prison, they concluded that the Norwegian authorities are at risk of violating both the Equality and Discrimination Act and our obligations under the UN Convention on Women. Women are at risk of being more restrictive, and especially after several open prisons have been laid down by the government, they are thus offered a lower price from start-up to end-of-sale. The women have, among other things: fewer provision of counselling and programme activities. In fact, in some prisons women experience more isolation, just because they are women. What will the Council of State do to prevent this? Will the Council of State take a particular look at this gender perspective when the government initiates the measures recommended by the Civil Ombudsman?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e296	Again, when more open settlements are closed, it is about fewer areas of lowsecurity in prisons. So these zones are at home. That's very good. But that means that those in prison are a group with bigger challenges. To answer very briefly, I am aware of the problem. I'm aware that we have to do something about this. Of course, it is not that women should have tougher and more unworthy atoning relationships than men – on the contrary, this must be at the top of our list of what we need to prioritise further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e304	With that, the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e309	I look seriously at the findings of the report on the lack of human contact in Norwegian prisons. In the Granavolden platform, the government stresses that the use of insulation must be reduced. The Minister of Justice and I will continue to cooperate closely to follow up the recommendations of the Civil Ombudsman. Prisoners in Norwegian prisons have the same patient rights as the rest of the population. This applies to both municipal health and care services and to specialist health services. My responsibility is to ensure that prisoners in prison are granted their patient rights. The Minister of Justice’s responsibility is to facilitate the reception of health care for prisoners. In order to follow up recommendations, during 2020, health regions shall draw up a concrete plan for the establishment of an area function for specialist healthcare in the field of mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment. This shall be done in cooperation with the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. Such an area function will involve the local presence of mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment in all prisons. One of the measures we have already provided is the establishment of a national, strengthened Community department for up to six prisoners with highly aggressive behaviour and mental disorders. This unit is located in the Ila prison, and it aims to counter isolation for the very sickest prisoners. The unit will have significant health professionals. It is a well-known issue that prisoners convicted of sexual offences often choose to isolate themselves or be isolated by other prisoners. The so-called BASIS project for the treatment of prisoners convicted of sexual offences has been a pilot project from 2016 to 2019. The project will now be nationwide, with an annual allocation of 38 million. kr. The fact that we are now providing treatment could prevent the risk of isolation for this group. Another recommendation from the Civil Ombudsman is that prison health services have a common platform. This is now followed by the establishment of the new area function in the field of mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. Thematics is also followed up by the National Network of Competences in Security, Prison and Judicial Psychiatry, which the Health Regions operate jointly with funding from the Health Directorate. In my letter of assignment for 2020, I have asked the Health Directorate to revise the prison health services supervisor to ensure that it is professionally up-to-date and in line with international recommendations. This is also a follow-up to the Civil Ombudsman's recommendations. The audit shall include procedures for cooperation between criminal and health services through the use of isolation, including, where appropriate, human rights issues. This review shall assess the follow-up responsibilities of healthcare in isolation. This means that prisoners who are isolated or excluded are followed up by health professionals on a daily basis. I hope and believe that the measures I have now mentioned meet the Civil Ombudsman's recommendations for healthcare in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e333	Thank you to the Council of State, which I think had a thorough review of their plans for following up the Civil Ombudsman's recommendations. The Ombudsman and not least the hearing have also commented on the resource situation. It might have been interesting to hear if the Health Council can reflect on whether he gets feedback from the health professionals who are in prison — not prisoners, but those who work in prison — and their impression of the resource situation and the changes that have occurred there in recent years. That's the one. The second is a short question: does the Council of State see that in his area there will be a need for some legislative changes and clarifications to ensure that quality can be properly raised and controlled?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e342	The Secretary of Justice has responded well, and she has said what the plans are there. With regard to health care efforts, there is no doubt that the things I explained will require health services to spend a greater share of their resources on the prison population. I see that in the health field there is really no lack of rights that is the main challenge. The challenge is to ensure that the rights are properly respected. Then I think it's a lot more about presence and organisation, because the prison population has the same health rights as the rest of the population, but there are perfectly obvious barriers to fulfilling those rights. These include: on what we are doing now, the presence of the service in prison, because I think it requires so much, including criminal services, to ensure that the prison population is provided with their health care, and that is a barrier to them being granted their rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e349	I just want to say thank you for the answer. The only thing I obviously disagreed with was that the Minister of Justice had responded well to the resource situation. But we're going to come back to that eventually, so I don't have any further questions for the Health Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e354	Then the next replicator is Freddy André.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e359	I just have to insert myself into the sequence and say that it is very positive that the Minister of Health is also present here today. The Civil Ombudsman’s specific communication states that Norwegian legislation and practices are not in line with human rights standards for health surveillance in the case of the isolated prisoners. For this reason, I am pleased that the Council of State has notified the updating of the Prison Health Services Guide and the establishment of these area mental health and drug treatment functions for all prisoners. I would like to ask the Council of State whether these changes in the healthcare provision for prisoners will follow up on what are the human rights requirements for day-to-day health supervision, for the Civil Ombudsman asks for a legalisation of that requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e366	Yes, I am aware that the Civil Ombudsman recommends a legalisation of that requirement. This is always a difficult assessment. In the health field, it is enough that when it comes to such detailed requirements, the most common thing is to use a health care supervisor, because I see that the basic rights are already in the law. We have now asked the Health Directorate to review the prison health services supervisor, and that review will also address the health care follow-up responsibilities towards isolated people. I expect that it means that prisoners who are isolated or excluded are followed up by health professionals daily, as the Civil Ombudsman recommends.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e371	Thank you for that, that was a good answer that I appreciate. This update by the supervisor, which will be in line with, inter alia: the obligations we have, and the standards that human rights set, are very positive. But supervisors often have a problem that there are many of them, and it is not always so easy to follow up on them. For this reason, I would like to ask the Council of State how to follow up the revised Health Care Officer and, among other things, how to follow up. The county can be used in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e376	Yes, the supervisor will be responsible, among other things. for the supervision of the counties. But also if so, for example. are others, such as the Civil Ombudsman or others, who have the ability to exercise control and oversight over human rights and health issues, the guide will be set as a standard. Then we will also get an answer as to whether the guide is being followed, and to what extent it is being followed. When the supervisor is clear and the supervisors are overseeing, the supervisor will be the leader of the supervisors, and then we will get an overview of whether the supervisor is working and used in line with what is intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e382	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e389	I am pleased that there is a joint Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs which today supports the criticism contained in the report. Unfortunately, it helps very little that we are some about the criticism, and that this is serious, when there is a lack of follow-up. As a politician, one can not just be concerned and thought that things are serious. I must say that I am particularly disappointed with the reply from the Minister of Justice in the change of line with Dag Terje Andersen instead, because if it is such that it is an understanding in the Ministry of Justice that this report, this situation, is not about resources, one more time, has to read the report. I myself have been sitting on the Justice Committee for six years and visiting many of the country's prisons. There is no doubt that the economic situation of Norwegian prisons has been much worse in recent years, with bureaucracy, rather than cutting the front line. It wouldn't have been such a big problem with these cuts if there were huge permits to Norwegian criminal care, but that's not the situation. One gives with one hand and takes with the other. We've been resisting these concerns for a long time. We have not seen that the government has had prison policy as its priority, to say the least. There is a need to recognise that there is a major manning problem in Norwegian prisons, and that is one of the reasons for this report. The Minister of Justice points out that before the Korona situation, the growth of activity in Norwegian prisons began. To that I would just say that one should consider how to count activity in Norwegian prisons. We in the Labour Party are not particularly pleased with the form of pervert's target management and counting as a user when it comes to activity in Norwegian prison. It should take a look before one thinks it's good. We in the Judicial Committee have received the annual report from the Norwegian Human Rights Institute. We're not going to deal with him now, but we've sent him to the Minister of Justice, so that the Department can give its opinions and feedback to the committee on the recommendations that are there. We have a lot of understanding that it can take some time given the situation we're in. However, it is now possible for the government council and the government apparatus to take this report together with the recommendations of NIM not only seriously but actually sit down and see what we should do with it. Because it's a goal for all of us, I think one should be less criminal when one comes out than when one comes in. Viewing prison also as an important social security policy requires us to do more for the situation in Norwegian prisons, and we need more action than just putting in place a new ICT system, which may be what we have registered. So if Malta wants to make an attempt to clean up after eight failed attempts from the Progress Party - we need it - we want her to be happy with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e406	After visiting many of our prisons in our country, my main impression is that they add, both at the leadership level and among those who work directly with them every day, make a solid effort and carry out a very important social mission. Norwegian criminal services are considered to be among the best in the world, and we are allowed to be proud of that. We have, and should have, a humane and rehabilitating punishment that enables the criminal to choose a law-abiding life after atonement. Norway, along with Iceland, has lower relapse rates than countries we compare with – the lowest. This means that Norwegian criminal services are very happy in their work. Over time, our challenges are related to isolation and exclusion from community in prison. Through reports from visits to prison, the Civilo Ombudsman’s prevention unit against torture and inhuman treatment has helped to put these challenges on the agenda. It is important to stress that the contents of the Civilombodsman's special message to the Storting is taken seriously. The numbering material is unclear and the reasons for isolation are compounded. Various measures have been taken in recent years to meet the challenges. The most fundamental measure is probably that this has been a central theme of the governance dialogue between the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection and the Directorate of Criminal Affairs, and that there is close cooperation between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health and Care – that the theme has been highlighted and addressed. Last year, the Directorate of Criminal Welfare presented a report with proposals for measures that could reduce the extent of isolation and harm caused by isolation. The action plan identifies the need for regulatory changes and identifies locking procedures and the provision of activities for those prisoners who have limited communities. The report covers both longer-term measures such as: requires changes to the law or regulation, and measures that can be put into action quickly and within the current legal and financial framework. In the Granavolden platform, the government has determined that isolation can be harmful to its deployment, and that we aim to reduce the use of isolation in Norwegian prisons. There have been several important actions, both by the government and through annual budgetary priorities, to address the issue just now — measures covering both building conditions, the content of soning and, not least, the health supply in prison. I am sure that the contents of the Civilombodsman's special message will be taken seriously. Many of the recommendations are already under way. Everything will not be in place overnight, but the work will be well done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e423	I feel entitled to say something about this, precisely because we have put forward our own representative proposal for consideration in the Judicial Committee that follows up this report. I'm just going to draw out some of the perspectives from there. It is quite obvious that we have a fine legal state in Norway, and there is great trust in the institutions of the rule of law, but unfortunately it fails in criminal matters. Many reports — related to mental illness in prisons, related to belt beds, with which the Civil Ombudsman recently arrived, as well as to illegal isolation — show that Norwegian prisons are unable to discharge their basic human rights obligations under both Norwegian law and European Convention on Human Rights. It's a serious problem, and that's obviously not how we want it. That's why it's important that we have a brave and offensive civilian ombudsman who reports very, very clearly how this is. We have to go one step further, we have to ask ourselves, why does this happen? Why is it that criminal services are unable to discharge their fundamental human rights obligations and that this is reported both by the Civil Ombudsman and by the Norwegian Human Rights Institute? Those who work in prisons are very clear about the reason. I've traveled around and visited a lot of prisons -- everyone says this is due to low crew, so low crew that they're not able to take care of the very basic things in prison, and they're actually going to have to choose to lock prisoners inside their cells instead of giving them good rehabilitation. It comes from the fact that prisons have been lowered in funding. In fact, it becomes a political challenge when the representatives of the government parties, all of whom are concerned about it with illegal isolation, are the same representatives who are responsible for appropriations leading to human rights violations. There is a line of responsibility here – the representatives who come to this pulpit and say that they are concerned about illegal isolation, at the same time have given so little money to the criminal services that it actually leads to some of these conditions, that it has become as it has been, and it is very serious. We have put forward a separate proposal for a representative following up this report by the Civil Ombudsman, because this report and what is coming up here are in a way somewhat retrospective. We have made very concrete proposals on how we want this to be done better. All those who have been on this platform have said that they are concerned. I expect them to support our proposals when they come up later in this session.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e434	I regret that I had to ask for the floor again, but I was actually a little shaken by the answers from the Council of State on the resource situation in prisons. I then refer to the hearing we conducted, and Tor Erik Larsen, who represents the Criminal Service, who pointed to the fact that Oslo Economics submitted a report in 2017, which stated that future ABE cut would hit the first line and service production in the criminal service, and that the UN torture committee in May 2018 presented a report on Norway and recommended that Norwegian criminal care should be exempted from the ABE reform, so that building and manning reasons do not form a basis for isolation. He showed that the cuts that have been since 2014 amounted to 400 million. NOK and that it corresponds to 530 employees in the first line. We agree that building things are important, and that modern technology and ICT are important, but that's this point there has been a political dispute about this year after year. We get feedback from those who work in criminal care, that this is going to go beyond the quality of prisons – and it's these people who are going to be our neighbors in the future. I am disappointed with the Council of State and the answers she has given here today. It's obvious that the Council of State believes that when the terrain doesn't match her map, it's the map that's right. We will continue to take into account those who are going to perform this service in reality, the employees' representatives, the management of the local prisons, who repeatedly warn that when as blind cuts as we experience are carried out, there must be poor quality. Efficiency is something completely different. There's something people are involved in developing. But the blind cut, schematically drawn in an office in Oslo, contributes to the consequences pointed out by the Civil Ombudsman here. Here the Judicial Committee must follow the Council of State closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e443	I have to add some final considerations, because I would like to stress very much that I am pleased that the Control Committee is in agreement on several of the points on the follow-up to this report. This applies, for example: putting in place the legal criteria for isolation, which are in line with our human rights obligations. The health follow-up in prisons should be in line with our human rights obligations. As regards legal certainty, the supervisory regimes will in fact also ensure the legal certainty of the isolated prisoners. The Committee agrees that structural and manpower resources must also be considered, so that there is no reason for isolation. I have to join in the wonder about the disconnection that the resource situation in prisons gets from the problems of isolation, because it is quite obvious that when new buildings, new installations, cannot be put into service because there are not enough staff to follow the prisoners there, there is a clear connection. It emerges from the employees' organisations, from the management of prisons, that this needs to be resolved. At the end of this suspension, the Committee asks the Council of State to report back to the Storting on the follow-up process. Therefore, it would have been nice if the Council of State could finally say something about how the government plans to follow the recommendations made by the Civil Ombudsman and to which the Supervisory Committee also subscribes. Time goes by, but no one draws. Then we are hoped that the government will respond as quickly as possible to the recommendations made by the Civil Ombudsman, to which the Committee of Inquiry is joining.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e452	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e468	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the rapporteur, 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e475	Reasonable time is an important quality requirement and a legal certainty requirement for courts. In its annual treatment of Prop. 1 S adopts the Storting case for the average duration of proceedings for criminal and dispute proceedings in the courts and tribunals. The Courts judge on the basis of the laws adopted by the Stortinget. The aim of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to assess the effectiveness of the court proceedings and those of the Lawyers’ Courts and to assess the effectiveness of the proceedings in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. The main findings of the Riksrevision are serious: A substantial proportion of courts do not reach the Grand Duchy's case for the duration of proceedings. Time limits specified in the Criminal Procedures Act and in the Arbitration Act are not respected. There is a potential for improving the efficiency of the district courts. There is variation in the use of legal instruments in the course of proceedings. External factors have a significant impact on the duration and effectiveness of the proceedings. There are weaknesses in the follow-up to the courts. The courts have an important role to play in ensuring legal certainty and in protecting the rule of law. This is also stated in the Constitution § 95. In order for citizens to have the legal certainty that society requires, they need to be dealt with within a reasonable time and with the quality of society’s confidence in the courts. Let it be clear: Norway has a good legal system with competent, highly competent and hard-working judges, case handlers and administrative staff. Nevertheless, the Riksrevision report shows that there are challenges that can have serious consequences. The National Audit Service uses the highest level of criticism in its report, which is very unusual. When courts and courts of law spend a long time dealing with cases and breaking legal deadlines, there is a high risk that this could go beyond legal certainty, life and health. Neither the Riksrevision itself nor any of the hearing bodies indicate that the serious situation is due to the poor culture of those working in the courts, or to the lack of hard or efficient work in their working day. On the contrary, investigations carried out by the Court of Justice show that judges work successfully and often far beyond normal working hours in order to reach statutory deadlines. The Court of Auditors has delivered its recommendations and the Committee has had a thorough consultation and examination of the matter. Regardless of party membership, we are all aware that the situation in Norwegian courts is very much under pressure. While a substantial part of the courts do not reach the Storting case for the time being and violates the time-limits imposed by law, the investigation also shows that there is an efficiency potential of a total of 8 pst. Especially smaller dish dishes have a high efficiency potential. Several hearing bodies, in addition to the National Audit Office itself, point out that increased flexibility in the use of resources between courts can be a solution to increase efficiency. It is noted that, overall, the courts do not make optimal use of their resources, and there is reason to consider how flexibility can be increased by some structural changes, such as major legal circles. Increased use of legal mediation may also help to improve efficiency. This will release judges to perform judicial functions. Digitalisation is also one of the key factors in achieving effective judicial procedures. But for this to happen, one has to look at the whole chain of cases in the context, so that both lawyers and the actorate are connected in order to get an effective case flow. It is important, and it also informed the Minister of Justice and Immigration at the time of the hearing, that digitisation is – and will continue to be – an important point in the dialogue between the Ministry and the Administration of Justice, and that digitisation will provide new opportunities for statistics and good governance information. Good and effective courts are essential to ensure legal certainty and to protect the rule of law. It is positive that the Minister of Justice believes that the Riksrevision report fits well with the Ministry’s view of the situation in the courts, and that this will strengthen the work already done by the government in different fields of justice. There's been a lot of work in the courts, but we're not in the case anyway. The Committee considers it serious that the objectives of the Storting for the duration of proceedings in the courts and tribunals are not followed. According to the Association of Judges, this is due, inter alia, to: the difficulty of handling the cases to be brought before the courts. Better case preparation is essential to achieve more effective case resolution. Another issue that was raised during the hearing was active case management during the case itself, and this is something all the actors ask more of. I would like to thank the Committee for its good work on this study, and it is an overall committee which supports the serious consideration of the findings of the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e524	Thanks to the rapporteur for both a well-worked job and a good review here of a unanimous vote. It is true, as the rapporteur said, that the use of the term ‘serious’ does not happen often, but is therefore something that underlines the seriousness of the matter. There are a lot of things we're left with after dealing with this matter, but one of the things that made the biggest impression on me in the hearing was the Secretary-General of the Law Association – that's her official title – Merete Smith, who says that we have a situation where, in particular, those with little resources, little economy to get good legal aid, can't be sure that they get the same legal treatment as others and those with more resources. If there's something we're concerned about in Norwegian society, it's that everyone should be treated equally, and at least by the third state power, regardless of state, position, and personal economy. But then this report shows that it can vary from court to court, and – as I said – the resources of the person who has a case for treatment can determine the outcome of the case. I am pleased that there is a unanimous committee dealing with that issue. Then, in this case, we were also pointed out through the hearing that the constant cuts – the ABE cuts, as they are called, the flat, blind cuts – also affect the resources, of course, in this department. But there was also something else that marked the hearing, I think, and it was that the Court Commission had just presented its investigation into the structure of the courts. We asked the National Auditor when he presented the matter to us, whether this could be interpreted as a conclusion that could contribute to recommending what should be concluded after this investigation. That canceled the National Auditor. Because there's a difference between small courts, there's a difference between large courts, but there's no systematic difference between small and large courts. But it's a lot to get to see resources together and be able to work on it. It was also necessary for us in the Committee to stress that it is not the control committee that discusses future judicial structures. It is the trade committee that is supposed to do after the input from the government. That's why I'm referring to our people on the Justice Committee to follow up on what became a big topic in the hearing, but that's not part of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e537	The legal certainty of the Norwegian people is one of the fundamental elements of trust in Norwegian democracy, and of course the courts have a very central function. It is therefore important, correct and natural that the Riksrevision has looked at whether the courts deliver in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. A well-functioning legal instrument that has the people's confidence is characterised by the experience of high quality in the decisions taken, and not least by the timely completion of cases. The right, therefore, takes a serious view that the Stortinge’s objective for the duration of proceedings is not being followed up. The National Audit Office’s report points out that too many cases are pending within the objectives set for processing time and that time limits laid down in the Criminal Procedures Act and the Arbitration Act are not complied with. At the same time, the report points out that there are several possible reasons for this to happen and that there is a complex picture in the various courts. There appear to be both internal challenges in the courts and external factors affecting the duration of treatment. It is important to note that, as a whole, the Committee stresses that there is no reason to criticise the employees of the courts for the situation in question. However, we have noticed that a general theme of the hearing bodies was that they agree with the Riksrevision that the structure limits the possibility of the courts to effective and flexible procedures. Changing the size of the legal systems seems to allow for greater flexibility in the use of both resources and sites, thus reducing the length of proceedings. The same applies to increased use of legal mediation as a work form. There is also no doubt that there is still a great deal to be done about digitisation, and that this is central to the implementation of effective treatment. A forward-looking process management system that can also communicate with any external party involved in the proceedings will ensure both the quality and progress of the cases. The Ministry states that the Riksrevision report is consistent with the opinion of the Ministry itself of the situation in the courts. There is also the background to the fact that the government is already taking action to respond to some of the findings and recommendations of the Riksrevision. Proposals for a new court structure have been put to the hearing. Thus, both the legal structure and the resources available to the courts will be ample opportunity to debate later in the Grand Duchy. I would like to end by concluding that in the Right we end up with the report's mention of challenges and recommendations, and we both assume and know that the Council of State will follow up, so that the treatment time in the judiciary will be within the targets and deadlines set.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e554	The report of the National Audit Office shows that court or tribunals are unable to handle criminal cases within the time limits laid down in the laws. This has been reported by Stortinget all the way back to 2005. This report highlights factors affecting the effectiveness of the judiciary. It is the use of instruments in criminal and dispute laws that are being used to varying degrees today, such as litigation in disputes. It is the empowerment of employees and better governance information that can provide us with knowledge of how the courts can improve their work. The Government proposes to improve the effectiveness of the courts through larger units and through digitisation. This report shows that courts are lacking in their capacity to improve digital efficiency in the handling of cases, such as the necessary ICT equipment, the functionality of the processing system and the possibility of electronic interaction among others. The lawyers. The report also shows that external factors, such as cooperation with law enforcement authorities, affect the process duration and effectiveness. There are also weaknesses in the follow-up of the courts of the Court of Justice. Therefore, a search for other ways to do better than larger units is required. Here I will refer to the Justice Committee's consideration of Innst. 71 S, where one points out that structural changes are not the answer to challenges in courts’ effectiveness. It is unfortunate that economics and budgetary leadership are being used as a means of pressuring court closure, which threatens people's legal security and equal access to justice throughout the country. Analyser The Riksrevision has done, points out that the smallest object rights have a slightly higher potential for reaching deadlines than the largest. At the same time, we know that tracts that are assembled into larger units, wear with increased handling time. Therefore, we need to think again about what makes our rights and rights of law effective, and we need to consider the effectiveness of the courts, that their effectiveness is a matter of time use and legal certainty. In order to do this, one must listen to the courts that do this every day, both when the Court of Justice is planning to make more efficient and when its proposals are to be assessed in the Grand Duchy. This is the only way to ensure legal certainty across the country. And when the National Auditor says on direct questions that he can't see that structure is one of the challenges when it comes to efficiency in the courts, I regret that the government party is still using it as a reason and the National Auditor's report as a basis for structural changes in the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e565	This study by the National Audit Office is an essential element for modern democracy, namely the legal certainty of people. It is therefore serious that the Riksrevision considers that a substantial proportion of the courts do not achieve the Storting’s objective for the duration of proceedings and that the time limits laid down in the Criminal Procedures Act and the Arbitration Act are not complied with. In fact, it is so serious that the Riksrevision uses its greatest degree of criticism, ‘very serious’, and it is very unusual. The Court of Auditors considers it very serious that more courts do not reach the Grand Duchy’s case for the time spent in criminal proceedings, and they believe that this could have consequences for the legal certainty of those involved, but also for the trust in the judiciary. According to the National Audit Office’s assessment, it is also seriously based on the requirements of the Constitution § 95 and of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. 1, that cases are to be dealt with within a reasonable period of time. We can't accept that, because there are a few things that are more important to a society than that people's legal certainty is well cared for. In addition, this is disproportionate. It affects those who do not have the same opportunity to purchase legal certainty through more time from lawyers and specialised competences. We have already seen class divisions in legal security when both social security recipients and refugees have been wrongly convicted. Therefore, some of the most important things we can do on the part of Stortingen to follow up this report, to ensure that the courts have sufficient resources. There is also a need to make full use of the capacity of the courts. For the Riksrevision, the courts found that they had fewer annual work than the amount of the case to be referred to. This was found in combination with the fact that we know that many judges often work far beyond normal working hours, suggesting that Norwegian courts have a resource problem. In addition, it appears that there has been a negative trend in recent years in the number of annual works, according to the Court of Justice. In the years to come, there will be even more depopulation. There is reason to suspect that the problem and responsibility lie with those who define the financial framework of the courts. Therefore, it is unwise for Norwegian courts and our legal certainty to be subject to the so-called ABE cut of 0.5 pst. every year. It's irresponsible to continue with those cuts. The budgets of the Court of Justice should be increased, not cut. As the National Audit Office says, it's about both people's legal security and people's lives and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e580	Thanks to the case spokesperson from me, too. The case-speaker starts his statement by stressing that the ‘reasonable time’ procedure is an important quality requirement and legal security requirement of the courts. Every year a target for the average duration of proceedings for criminal and dispute proceedings in Norwegian courts of law and order is set. Unfortunately, the review of the Riksrevision shows that the trial period and the effectiveness of the rights of workers in Norway are far too low. In their reports, the Court of Auditors makes use of the strongest criticism and points out, among other things, that they have. that the distance from the measurements to the Storting has increased, that many issues concern young people accused, and that there may be significant implications for the general confidence in the judiciary. The Court of Auditors proposes a number of measures to remedy the excessive length of proceedings and the lack of effectiveness of the Courts and Lawyers’ Courts. It is safe to see that the government takes this very seriously and that a monthly data collection has already been carried out that provides a good basis for further development work before the various fields of justice. The government has also done a great deal of work through the distribution to the Court Commission that came in the fall, and the proposal based on it, which is now being heard – a proposal that creates more flexibility in the system by having larger jurisdictions, but where one at the same time holds up today's courts. The distance to the audience is still the same, with the large previews it has, but one can also use the judges more wisely, more effectively. Another important point pointed out by the National Audit Office is that the cases before the courts are becoming increasingly time-consuming and complex, which, in turn, is linked to the crime scene, with a decline in profit crime and drug law offences and an increase in violence and sexual law offences, as well as technology and globalisation as additional incentives for increased complexity. In this way, it is important not least to allow enough money for digitisation. The Norwegian courts operate largely well and generally have a high level of confidence in the population. If we are to protect this trust, it is important to evaluate and adapt the framework and working conditions of the courts in line with changes in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e597	Before I comment on the Riksrevisions report, let me just inform you immediately that the courts are right now in a situation in which they have had to postpone a number of cases as a result of the coronary situation. This will, of course, have an impact on the length of the procedure in the courts. Now we're working on bombs in the department to implement different measures that can address the consequences. I have to get back to that. As the Supervisory and Constituent Committee notes in the suspension, the Riksrevision points out that increased flexibility in resource use between courts can be one solution to increase efficiency. The Committee considers that there is reason to consider ways in which flexibility can be increased, inter alia. through major legal circles. That's why I think it's important that the Department has now sent to the hearing of the Court of Justice's structural investigation, along with an alternative proposal from the Department to change only the jurisdictions. This consultation has been postponed by one month as a result of the Corona situation. Greater jurisdictions will increase the flexibility between courts, make better use of the efficiency potential, increase the achievement of objectives, reduce the variation in the use of the legal instruments and facilitate a more appropriate dialogue between the Court of Justice and the individual courts. So this case is being consulted, and then it will be dealt with in Stortinget. The Ministry also works with other measures. Digitisation of courts is a priority task. The government has carried out the digitisation effort of the times in Norwegian courts. Since 2014, a total of 364 million have been allocated. grants for ICT projects in the courts. We're not in the target of digitising all the courts, but a lot has been done, and we still have to give priority to this work. The Government is concerned that the courts have satisfactory framework conditions. An analysis of the operational situation in the courts following the introduction of the ABE reform shows that the courts have managed to reduce the manning costs without jeopardising the core business. The Ministry also works with major revisions of the dispute law and the Criminal Procedures Act. The aim is to facilitate a secure and effective judicial process. The department also works, among other things. facilitating the increased use of legal mediation. I will continue to follow up the findings and recommendations of the National Audit Office, along with the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e614	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e619	I want to start with something we're some about, and that's increasing the use of legal mediation. So my question is how the Council of State sees it that one can increase the use of legal mediation, and whether the Council of State thinks it might be appropriate to consider whether someone other than the judge can do legal mediation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e625	In general, I'm concerned about being responsive to recordings, and I think we need to think about something new in this area as well. I just have to admit that after I arrived in the Ministry of Justice, I got my hands full of a situation that makes me far too little – and I just have to be honest – have been able to go through and see how we should prioritise and get up both the use of legal mediation and efficiency in the court as well as sending to the hearing of the court administration's proposal, which I believe is important and correct. But we have to work on several strategies for this, and then I'm responsive to how we can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e630	I have a great understanding of that, and I am positive that there may be something we can look at further. We in the Labour Party think it might be a good idea. In the previous debate, the Council of State said that ABE-cutta did not have much to say about the situation in criminal matters. For this reason, I would like to ask whether the Council of State now sees it as the Court of Justice repeatedly on budgetary matters in the Judicial Committee says it is a problem for the courts, because they also feel that one sheep with one hand, and then it will be taken back with the other. Does the Council of State see that a reasonable measure to reduce the length of proceedings might have been to protect the courts of the flat areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e639	To be precise, I did not say that there was no problem in criminal matters, but I said that alone it could not be the cause of isolation in prisons. No, it's not that I think the courts can be exempted. I don't meet any state businesses that don't think they should have been exempt. We look at this in the cultural sector, in health, in the justice sector, in the defence sector – everyone thinks that they should have been excluded. My starting point is that it was high time that the state, which has been peaced for efficiency improvement throughout all years, also had a demand to make it more efficient. It was introduced in 2015, long after all other parts of the public sector, and by industry, where this is part of it. It's important that we streamline, that we think new. It must also be possible for the courts to do so. We live and work in a completely different way than 10 and 15 years ago, and I also believe that the ABE cut is right for this part of state businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e650	If the result had been more efficient, I could have been in agreement, but that is not what the result shows. For comparison, one has e.g. in Sweden, far more cases than in Norwegian courts. You can imagine someone viewing them as bureaucrats. I don't. They do an incredibly important job for us to get justice done in a good and proper way. My last question is at the beginning of the state council, the situation we're in now, with the coronary crisis. She is serious and alarming, and so is she in the courts. I have a lot of understanding for, among other things, The court administration requests national plans and instructions on how to deal with the current situation. And then I understand that the Council of State may not be able to answer exactly what they can get, because the Council of State said that one was looking at it. But can the authorities provide the courts with a better national counsellor and plan, both for security and for infectious diseases, etc., in order to deal with the current situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e657	Yes, I'm very concerned about the evolution we're seeing, and for what's going to be the consequences, in the same way that I'm just saying, it's in many other areas. We have been in close contact with the court administration all the way. A supervisor, along with the Health Directorate, is now working for the courts. We need to get case resolution going, and it needs to be done in a safe way for all those involved in these cases. In addition to a supervisor, we received a call from the Court of Justice on 13 March on a number of proposals that were dealt with very quickly, and where the Stortinget made decisions relating to remote meetings, signature solutions and written processing. That's good. We got a new call from the Court of Justice Administration on 7 April. Then we have had Easter, and some in the department have also had some Easter, but we are now sending to the hearing quite demanding and controversial proposals, I would say. We'll send it to the hearing for a quick treatment, and then it'll be a legal process. We're not doing it according to the Korona Act, but in the ordinary way, as we promised the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e664	The Riksrevisor was clear that it was not possible to see any link between small and large legal cases and efficiency in cases. It is clear that the government is proposing that major corrections should lead to more flexibility. Why can't a person try to get a cooperation between independent courts, so that an extra member of the administration escapes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e671	I don't think I understood the question. Now, when we change the legal systems, you get fewer leaders and more leaders who can spend their time judging, rather than leading. I am a little unsure which terms it was the representative Bjørke we thought we should remove.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e676	The challenge is that when one beats several object rights, a few points will be separated between them. The Court may not, as a separate entity, control itself, but, in cooperation with other courts. If you do a bunch more, with a number of different legal places, a few additional points that I'm afraid will drown the administration. The only thing I can see that might save a little bit of time on this is the court administration. Is it their vision that has been the most focused on here?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e687	I am sorry – then I understand what the representative Bjørke means, and I also understand that we are completely disagreeable, something that is not unexpected, in and out. If you get larger legal circles, like you've gotten it, for example. In Sogn and Fjordane – that's also why we have picked up the model from there – you get fewer joints and fewer leaders. The leaders can spend more time judging. Within a larger court, you will have courts – large and small – that have long queues, and you will have people who have short queues. In reality, a number of courts have staffing and opening hours, it's only part of the week because they have too little file size. Now you'll be able to get a distribution within these circles that I think will lead to more efficiency, and that will be very good for the court. The matter is now at the hearing, so Stortinget will have a lot of time to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e696	This report from the Riksrevision points to many reasons, many recommendations and many areas where it is possible to do something to reduce the length of the procedure. One of the factors that the report points to is that the courts have fewer annual work than the amount of work to be done. It prolongs the procedure. At the same time, we know that in the current year the courts will have to reduce staffing by a further 20-30 posts. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State whether she agrees with the Riksrevision that the staffing of the courts is also a factor in the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e702	I agree that manning is a factor in case resolution, but I will probably not agree that the more things, the more crewing. We're working in a completely different way than before. When we change the legislation, when we change the way you can handle cases with more digitisation and more written winding-up, when we make changes, not least in terms of ICT – the way we work, we have to give priority – when the police work in a different way, and when lawyers work in a different way, the courts have to do it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e707	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e714	I would also like to start by saying that the situation we are currently in with the coronary crisis is very worrying, and it is clear that it will be able to exacerbate the situation we are discussing today when it concerns procedural time. What worries the Labour Party is that the violation of procedural time is a violation of human rights. This is a lack of legal certainty for people and means that we have seen for some years that there has been an increase in criminal discounts given because it takes too long to deal with the case. When victims of crime have been in longer and longer queues for some years, and then one at the end feels that the criminal gets a penalty discount, it is clear that it does something about trust in the system, such as the former. I think it is positive that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs should also highlight and point to that with legal mediation. I would like to invite the Minister of Justice when she has time – I understand that there is a lot now – to look closer to legal mediation, because there are two interesting tracks here. The one thing is the court case. There we've got some reports from the Law Association and others that you might want to look at the possibility that someone other than the judge might meddle, for example. A lawyer. It's worth looking closer. The second is extrajudicial mediation. There's something that one of us is doing more and more of in the business world. New Roads, Bane NOR and others have had very successful extrajudicial mercenaries in line with the argument that saves society for a lot of money. There is something in any case the Labour Party will address several times when we discuss this. I'm also worried that there's a difference between people, that the promise is not equal to everyone, because there's a difference between how much money you have to buy yourself the best lawyer. Therefore, I look forward to the legal aid selection that is soon to be done with the option provided. We in the Labour Party put forward a couple of years ago proposals for a new legal aid model and we think we need to look closer to this, so that we can make sure that more people who are right actually get right. Then I agree with Dag Terje Andersen that the structural debate on this matter does not belong here. We haven't had a case in Stortinget about that one time. As the Minister of Justice said, there is a hearing out at the municipalities. The Labour Party believes that the government should wait until the Court Commission has completed its work before bringing a case to the Stortinget, but it is up to the government itself to decide. The Labour Party also believes that it must be possible to meet the needs that are around the country for increased flexibility, etc., without expanding the legal systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e727	The national audit has highlighted a number of measures that need to be taken to improve the length of proceedings in the courts. One of the most important proposals is to increase the flexibility between courts so that cases are better distributed. The government has just sent a proposal at the hearing that meets that very point. A major problem today is that the geographical scope of the courts prevents them from distributing cases between themselves. There may be a long queue in one court while there is an open capacity in the neighbouring court. This, of course, affects the length of the procedure. That's why the government is proposing to extend the jurisdictions, so that several district courts lie within a larger jurisdiction. This means that courts can distribute cases more easily between themselves in order to reduce the length of proceedings. The government's proposals also help us to build larger disciplines in the court's main seat that can benefit all courts in the judiciary. This is also a response to the National Audit Office’s recommendation to ensure that those who work in the courts are more qualified. Reports that we are dealing with here today usually tend to be a good opportunity for the opposition to criticise the government for the lack of follow-up to the specific area of the report. Here the government has a concrete proposal which has been sent to the hearing, which will meet important recommendations from the National Audit Office and which will help to reduce the length of proceedings in the Court of Justice. We therefore await the opposition’s view and hope that they will be involved in implementing these changes in order to improve both the competence, the length of proceedings and legal certainty in the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e740	The National Audit Office’s investigation shows that external factors have a significant impact on the proceedings and the effectiveness of the courts. The main challenge of setting time for main and appeal negotiations within a reasonable time in criminal and civil matters is to find a time that suits the courts and the various actors. Things have to be done in time because the actor does not have the capacity, and the main and appeal negotiations are postponed because the defendant or the witness is not voted correctly. When it comes to this main challenge identified by the National Audit Office, the big question is why the government's response to the problem is in practice putting down two out of three District Courts. Structural changes and centralisation seem to be the first government and the bulk of the population tend to solve many different problems. In the meantime, one might also wonder if the government is able to find problems that do not exist to suggest centralization as medicine, but in this case they have at least an identified problem to take on board. Unfortunately, the printed prescription is not available for diagnosis. The thorough review of different fields by the national audit can be a good starting point for reality orientation. As my colleague, Mr Nils T. Bjørke, was in the midst of it, possible efficiency is also linked to digitisation in the courts. The government and the majority of the population have chosen to digitize only the twelve largest tracts of property and those with common leadership. This gives rise to a greater difference between the bets and those that are not. We in the Center Party have a different view of what is socio-economically profitable and effective than what the government has. We mean that public services near the people of the whole country tend the whole country to maintain value creation in each of the crooks and hooks. Legal services are important services in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e751	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e767	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the rapporteur, 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of lines with up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e774	I would like to explain the Committee's position on the EOS Committee's specific communication on the illegal collection and storage of air passenger information by PST. The usual way in which the EOS Committee informs the Storting about its control is through the annual notifications sent to the Stortinget. In addition, the sample may issue specific messages to the Storting if there are facts that the Storing should immediately know, or matters of some magnitude and importance. This is such a case. The EOS Committee strongly criticises the Police Security Service for obtaining a large amount of information on Norwegian citizens' air travel. The EOS Committee believes that the collection has been – and is – illegal because the PST has not had a legal basis for it. Criticism is reinforced by the fact that practice has continued for several years. In the Special Communication, the EOS Committee brings forward the following four aspects, which they wish to draw attention to: The PST has continued its practice of collecting information on Norwegian passenger air travel abroad, even after the 2014 sample criticised the service in a specific case for not having a legal basis for such collection. PST has unlawfully obtained access to large amounts of information, both for Norwegian and foreign passengers, on national and international routes, through access to the booking system of the carrier Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA. Such access has not been provided by the PST. This is information that the PST would otherwise have had to ask for the court's permission to obtain in each case. The PST has had eight airlines send passenger lists to the service as a matter of routine. The routine transmission has included an estimated 1 million passengers per year. Several hundred thousand of these have been Northmen. This routine collection is illegal. The information has been stored for several months and has been available for search. The PST has not had sufficient internal control and documentation of its collection activities. The Monitoring Committee has unanimously agreed with the conclusions and criticisms of the EOS Committee and will stress that it is particularly important for the police, including the PST, to comply with Norwegian law and to ensure the necessary legal support when carrying out their activities. This applies to all passenger information, including passengers by ferry and train. A Joint Committee also points out that, in the work they are set to do, the PST must be able to control the travel activities of both foreign and Norwegian nationals, but that monitoring and control of such travel activities is so extensive that this must have a clear legal basis. It has not been in this case by PST. In the opinion of the Committee, it is clear that the substantive scope of the Foreign Affairs Act concerns the access of non-residents to the State and their residence here. Although Norwegian citizens and legal persons may also be subject to obligations under the law, the Foreign Affairs Act does not provide the basis for monitoring and control of the travel activities of Norwegian citizens. Nor does it help to give regulations or instructions by reference to the law when the law does not give permission. When the new Borders Act, which was adopted in spring 2018, enters into force, the provisions on border controls will be reflected in this Act and not in the Foreign Affairs Act. However, before the law can be brought into force, the necessary provisions must be in place. We have been informed that new regulations are planned to be sent to the hearing before the summer of 2020, so that the law can come into force during 2021. Pending the entry into force of the new Borders Act, the government has promoted a bill for Stortinget, Prop. 39 L for 2019-2020, which provides the necessary legal support to obtain information on Norwegian citizens. The majority joined this bill on 19 March 2020. This has been necessary as the substantive scope of the Foreign Affairs Act, as mentioned above, concerns only the access of foreigners to the State and their residence here. Thus, an overall committee agrees with the EOS Committee that it is critical that the PST did not have the necessary authority to obtain passenger information on the North. What distinguishes this matter in the committee is how strongly the criticism is. The majority in the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, consider it to be very serious, and have a so-called date proposal. I expect that these will elaborate their views in subsequent articles on the matter. As the rapporteur, I believe that the PST should have intervened earlier and arranged for the necessary funds to be put in place in order to keep an overview of Norwegian citizens. I am pleased that the government has cleared up, and I have noticed in particular that the Minister for Justice and Immigration has confirmed by letter of 17 January 2020 that ‘this legislation will clearly identify whom passenger information can be obtained and what information can be obtained’. Finally, a Joint Committee stresses that the PST must emphasise privacy considerations against security and control needs in line with the law in force at all times. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e813	Thank you to the President-in-Office, both for good work on the matter and for a thorough review of the seriousness of it, and for his emphasis on the special fact that we are receiving such a separate message. The reality is that the good job of the EOS Committee has made it clear that – to put it correctly – the PST does not comply with Norwegian law. Clearly, it's serious. Even more serious is the fact – and that is a lot of the background to a proposal here – that the PST was made aware, in the context of the 2014 Annual Report, that they were acting contrary to Norwegian law, and then did nothing about it. So they continued the illegal practice. Then we believe that it is also serious that neither the Ministry of Justice nor in so far as the Prime Minister's office – which for a period had what was called an element for security in society, but which is in any case within the control of the secret services – has ensured that the findings of the EOS Committee in the 2014 annual report were followed up. That's the sum of what's very serious. It is possible to make mistakes – even though such an important element as PST absolutely should not do so – but it is unforgivable not to correct when one is made aware that one actually makes mistakes. That is the background to the proposal to which the rapporteur referred, namely the proposal from the Workers' Party and the SV: ‘The government’s handling of the illegal systematic mass collection and storage of air passenger information is highly critical, as the government had information on the situation but failed to stop the practice.’ That is the background to the proposal, which I am addressing, and I would also like to point out to the rapporteur's thorough and thorough presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e831	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e836	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough review. I'm not going to repeat his points. On the part of the Centre Party, we are concerned that in the light of an increasing terrorist threat and an unstable international situation, we need to monitor as effectively as possible and prevent forces that might be likely to strike against Norway. At the same time, we need to ensure privacy at a time when the technical possibilities for monitoring and control are greatly increased. In the same way, the operation of the PST must balance privacy and control in line with the law applicable to the service at any time. The PST has extended powers in its monitoring task, but their activities must be governed by the laws applicable to the operation. The PST internal procedures must follow the same laws, and they do not need to access information by publishing themselves to be other than the service itself. The internal procedures of the PST must clearly show how to process documentation, storage and deletion of information so that personal information is not compromised. PST's handling of things has intensified the criticism from the selection, among other things. because the PST has given answers to the selection that have been shown to contain errors. Moreover, PST did not seem to have adequately addressed legal issues before the service responded to the EOS selection. PST must act professionally when the EOS selection completes the check. The EOS selection is Stortinget's extended arm in the follow-up to PST's extended mandates, and PST shall not act as a state in the country. Following the EOS Committee's message, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has put forward a bill on changes in foreign law to clarify that traveler checks also include Norwegian citizens. However, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has received information about PST’s collection of air passenger information on several occasions, both in 2015, 2017 and 2018. The Ministry did not stop the practice at that time, but only came forward with the bill after the EOS Selection report was known. This specific case, where the EOS Committee criticised the PST in 2014, was known to the Ministry of Justice and Defence through the PST Annual Report for 2014. Although the Ministry makes a legislative proposal to the Stortinget which provides the necessary legal basis for the PST to collect information on Norwegian passengers, there is reason to criticise that the Ministry of Justice and Defence did not stop the practice before when the Department was made aware of it on several occasions. It's only the department and the agency's responsibility to make sure that what they do at any time is for legal reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e851	I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for his work. This is a very special case. The police security service, PST, has been involved in the illegal systematic mass collection and storage of information of more than one million travellers per year, and neither collection nor storage has been in line with the law. The fact that the PST, contrary to the law, records travel activity is an outrage against the integrity and privacy of people. At a general level, it is absolutely essential for a government to comply with the laws and regulations laid down by the Stortinget. I really hope that this case is an exception, that it is not an example of practices or attitudes in our security services about how they deal with the law, because the important work they do cannot be influenced by anything like that. This case is not just about serious illegalities in the PST. It is also about the Ministry of Justice and the government's lack of intervention. In 2014, the EOS Committee criticized PST for a concrete case. The Ministry of Justice confirms that they became aware of this when the EOS Committee delivered its Annual Report for 2014 but nevertheless continued the PST practice without intervention from the Ministry. The Ministry of Justice also confirms in its replies to the Control Committee that they became aware of – even more serious – the routine mass collection of information already in 2017. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Justice did nothing. They did not intervene until 2019, shortly before the EOS Committee delivered its specific message. This is stated in the reply letter to the committee from the then Justice Minister Kalldmyr – I have to quote it, and now I do: ‘The meeting in December 2017 and the letter from the PST of June 2018 also informed about the routine collection of passenger lists. As mentioned above, we should then have gone into the issue more thoroughly and provided the necessary clarifications so that the practice that was not in line with the basis of the law could have been stopped in the past." It is serious that the security service systematically violates the law, but it is even more serious that the government knows about it and does not stop the practice. Now, as we know, it has been a number of Justice Ministers during this period of responsibility for this matter. It was Anders Anundsen and Per-Willy Amundsen who were responsible for several intersections, among others. But even if the government changes ministers of justice, the Stortinget must hold the government accountable. That the government knows about illegal systematic collection without stopping it – there goes a red line. That is why we are promoting proposals for criticism in this matter. We don't do that with an easy mind, but because we have to draw up a line somewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e873	Thanks to the case spokesperson also from me. Protecting a free and open society is fundamental to the Left, a society in which we citizens are not exposed to meaningless mass surveillance, where we can live an anonymous life if we want to, and where we can see the powers of government in the cards when they make decisions that happen to us. We live in a time when more and more parts of everyday life are on digital surfaces. It gives us great opportunities to share information, knowledge and experience with each other and with people around the world. Modern technology allows executives and private operators to follow what we all do, and share that information with others. It is a political task to prevent the misuse of information. Freedom implies that every person is protected from unnecessary registration, surveillance and privacy interference. In liberal democracy, it is the citizens who control the state, not the state who controls the citizens. There must be very serious reasons for the protection of privacy to give way. For this reason, in Left Sikra, everyone has the right to privacy even in a digital everyday life. The role of the EOS Selection is to ensure that activities in the public services are conducted within the framework of the laws, as here: To discover that the PST had obtained and stored a large amount of information about flights to Norwegian citizens is illegal – very serious and should not be done in a free, liberal legal state. The case is particularly serious since the illegal collection of passenger information has taken place over several years, and that the PST continues its practice itself after the EOS selection in 2014 criticised the service in a specific case in order not to have a legal secret for the collection. Of course, the nature of the security service requires them to weigh data protection concerns against security and control needs. But it has to be in line with current law. The basic liberal democratic principle is still under pressure, and it is particularly serious that the PST as an important player in the Norwegian insurance service has abused its powers. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that the right to privacy is guaranteed in a digital everyday life. The authorisation of the security services shall be limited and international efforts shall be required to ensure regulation which also ensures that operators do not misuse information they have access to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e894	Let me begin by stressing that I take seriously the criticism of the EOS Committee. I fully agree with the committee that it is important that the police and the PST operate within the legal framework given. The PST must be able to obtain the information they need to secure Norway, but of course it must take place within the legal framework that regulates this, and the framework must be clear. I am pleased that the committee acknowledges that the PST needs to be able to obtain passenger information about both Norwegian and foreign people. This is an important utility for PST resolution. The EOS Committee and the Committee have also taken the view that the collection of information on travel abroad by Norwegian citizens is not governed by the Foreign Affairs Act. In the light of the EOS Committee's criticism of the lack of a clear legal basis, the Ministry of Prop proposed. 39 L for 2019-2020 amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act to make it clear that the provisions on the collection of passenger lists cover both Norwegian and foreign travellers. The amendments have been adopted and have entered into force. These amendments no longer call into question the understanding of the provisions in question. The EOS Committee has also criticised the fact that the PST has acquired passenger lists routinely. Therefore, the proposition also mentions access to routine procurement. In the circumstances, it may be considered necessary to obtain passenger lists from all flights to and from specified areas or countries, such as: where this is based on a concrete threat assessment. With regard to access to Norwegian booking systems, PST no longer has such access. This access was terminated by Norwegian in May 2019. The Ministry has seen, in the light of the special communication, that the matter was not taken seriously, and therefore the necessary clarifications were not made. The EOS Committee points out that the PST has not had sufficient internal control and documentation of its own procurement activities and that the PST handling of the case has heightened the criticism of the sample. I'm taking this seriously. Good internal control is a requirement for all establishments, not least the intelligence and security services. The PST internal control is specifically monitored in the management dialogue with PST.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e909	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e914	I understand that it may not be the whole setting and everything that has happened in connection with this matter, which has shaped the daily life of the Council of State after she became the Council of State, but nevertheless I need to stress the seriousness of something else that appears in the report. We agree that what happened should not have happened. I assume that the current Council of State agrees that the Ministry of Justice and Defence should have intervened when it became known. But there's one more element here that's a little bit important, and it's that the EOS committee has had problems getting the facts straight into contact with the PST. I would like to ask the Council of State about that. Among other things, in the case of Norwegian, on which the Council of State was in, one has failed to get full clarity on how that access was obtained. This means in that case – we can read about some other things also in the setting and in the report – that the information from the PST to the EOS Committee has been deficient and perhaps not correct either. I would like to ask the Council of State: will she in her future work ensure that the PST facilitates and respects the role of the EOS Committee in Norwegian democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e922	Yes, the answer is unequivocally yes. I have had this up in the management dialogue with PST. I see that the PST understands the importance of this, and of course you try to make sure that the EOS committee gets the information they need and want. I hope that it will be better handled in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e927	It's nice to hear that there's been a grip on the PST to draw lessons from this particular case. It is also interesting to know what kind of lessons the Ministry of Justice will draw from the case when we know that the department was familiar with the matter in 2017, at least, without intervening because, as the Council of State said, you did not understand the seriousness. So I'm going to ask the Council of State: what lessons has the Ministry of Justice taken, and how are you going to make sure that you catch these kinds of problems faster if they happen again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e932	The simple answer is that we have to make sure that we have procedures for information gathering and exchange that make this not repeating. This is not going to happen, and it is not going to happen in the future. I don't think I can give anyone any better recipe than that. Fortunately, this case does not have similar examples. We have to make sure that we have enough information and that we make sure that we provide the information we want. When we find that things are not in accordance with the legislation or guidelines available, we have to do something with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e939	Things like this cause concern about how our security services deal with the law. I can mention that the Control Committee is now considering another matter relating to the annual report of the EOS Committee, on the registration of elected representatives here at the Stortinget. It is very important that the law of order itself complies with the laws and regulations adopted by the Stortinget. Therefore, I have to ask: when we get things like this, how does the government see that both PST and other parts of our EOS services do not extend to the access they have given to collect and store information about Norwegian citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e946	First, I want to say that the PST and EOS services are extremely important to us, and I have a high level of trust. I have a very solid impression of the services after my relatively short period in the Ministry of Justice. Of course, we have to make sure that episodes like this don't happen, and I don't know the equivalent. If I had done that, I would of course have informed about it. Then we have to make sure that the PST, for example. have the legal structures necessary in a changing world. It is our responsibility as politicians to discuss and, where appropriate, adopt new framework conditions that provide the services they need. There is no doubt that these are difficult dilemmas, there are difficult debates, but we have to dry up to take them, and then the Storing has to set limits. So let's do that. There will be proposals for amendments to a number of rules based on the needs of services. So it's up to the Storing to decide where the limits are going.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e955	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e973	I'll be very brief. This proposal proposes some changes to the car liability laws. The background to the proposal is that in recent years there has been a case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union that has clarified and clarified the scope of the Motor Insurance Directive, which is followed up by the Automobile Liability Act in Norway. There is a joint committee behind the setting and recommends that the matter be confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e982	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e998	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1005	In March 2017, the government asked a co-ordinated collapse to assess the need to introduce mandatory ID markings for dogs. The rule displayed when about 80 pst. by all dogs already selected. I Prop. 1 S for 2018–2019, it was stated that the government would not introduce mandatory labelling, when one assumed that the animal and public health benefits were not high enough. The Green Party is calling for the mandatory identification of dogs and cats, which we are now discussing. The Committee has received a number of contributions from both individuals and organisations in connection with the proposal. We see that there's a great commitment attached to the defensive handling of animals, and that's great. It's great that people are engaged in animal welfare. Animals have a self-esteem, and respectful treatment of animals is confirmed in the Animal Welfare Act. The Committee believes that it is positive that more than 80 pst. of dogs already selected. At the same time, the majority in the Committee consider that one cannot support the proposals. I'd like to tell you a little bit about the Center Party's assessments in this case. We are concerned about the problems that illegal imports of, among other things. street dogs can lead to e.g. infections and diseases. The body of the centre considers that, in conjunction with the majority of the members of the committee, a mandatory system of identification of cats and dogs could be resource-requiring, inter alia. Food surveillance and the police. The question is whether those who drive the most problematic animal husbandry, in any case, will follow a directive. The centre party is waiting for the information that is now available in the Food Authority attached to the ID marking of dogs, and we want to look at the recommendations from this before we may reconsider the mandatory ID marking.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1014	The Labour Party supports the concerns of the proposers regarding animal welfare and legal protection. Bikes are animals that are heavily dependent on their owners in order to be able to enjoy themselves, and they are often expensive to obtain. An assumption that up to 80 pst. by newly acquired cookies today will already be ID marked. Such a marking today costs between NOK 1000 and NOK 1500, which is not a large cost, set up against the purchase. The working party therefore supports a claim for ID marking of bikes, paid by the owner. I think it's a little different when it comes to the ID marking of cats. First of all, there are few cats that are ID marked today, compared to bees, and then the cost of ID marking is the same, which means that it is much higher than the cost of obtaining a cat. It may also be claimed that cats are not equally dependent on their owners in order to function. We also ask questions about having legal requirements that today's system is barely able to enforce. It is important that such a requirement not only results from signalling policies, but actually addresses the objective of the rules. Therefore, we are sceptical as to whether it is possible to have mandatory ID marking of cats and other pet animals, as the situation is today. Although we do not support that part of proposal 1, we believe that the ID marking of cats should be included as part of the distribution mentioned in proposal 2 on the ID marking of other family animals in Norway. I take that up with the Workers' Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1025	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1030	That animals have a self-esteem in addition to being useful to humans is an opinion shared by the entire committee. Such recognition is an important confirmation of a civilised attitude towards animals. Respectful treatment is an important value and must be reflected in the policy pursued, where this is natural. We have an animal welfare law of our own that confirms the animal's self-esteem, and the duties of people responsible for animals. We have an auxiliary duty to sick and injured animals, we have an alert obligation if there is a suspicion that animals are being abused, we have a clear ban on violence against animals, and we have strict rules for all those who are responsible for animal husbandry. It also includes criminal liability for violations of these rules and obligations. The government is working on the establishment of animal police in several police districts. Two animal police departments were established in the Inland and West police districts in 2019. The other animal police units are located in East, South West and Trøndelag police districts. A new entity shall be established in Troms during 2020. This is an important effort to prevent abuse and violence against animals. Further measures to improve animal welfare must be effective. There are already a great many responsible animal owners who mark their animals, and I would encourage this practice to continue. A directive on the identification of cats and dogs will be very resource-intensive for the police and the Food Authority to enforce. Therefore, it is important that a possible imposition be investigated in order to identify the dietary/benefit perspective. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has asked the Food Authority to carry out such an investigation. We believe that the best thing to do is to wait for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1043	I would like to begin by saying that, fortunately, in Norway, we have a major focus on animal welfare. There are few things that engage as much as when it comes to animals. A rapporteur once told me that when he posted political messages on Facebook, he got some ‘likes’ and a little discussion, but when he released his cat’s picture, he got a lot of ‘likes’. The exposure to animals has always been very large in the Progress Party. It has our national meeting debates on it time and time again. The fight for a private animal police is a good example of this, and of course we're glad that we've got this place and the enormous commitment this measure gave. It tends to be closely linked – care for animals and care for people. That's why this is important. The Norwegian people love their animals, and about 80 pst. all dogs are marked. How the number is for cats is more uncertain. We have our own animal welfare law that confirms the animal's self-esteem and the duties that fall upon humans when it comes to animals. We have an auxiliary duty to sick and injured animals. We have a warning obligation if animals are suspected of being abused. We have clear bans on violence against animals, and we have strict rules for all those who run animal husbandry. It results in criminal liability for infringements of these rules and obligations. Most animal owners take very good care of their animals. But here, as in all other areas, there are exceptions. We will use current legislation as well as animal policing to put an end to these. We're better rusted than ever. The party of progress is generally sceptical about new bans and bans. Therefore, any new imposition such as this should be investigated in a dietary/benefit perspective. We are aware that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has asked the Food Safety Authority to carry out an investigation to identify the benefits set against the cost of a directive on ID marking. Therefore, the Party chooses to await such an investigation at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1060	I think I should be very brief, because I see that the representative Une Bastholm is in the room. It is the Green Party that has presented the proposal and they can argue better for the proposal than I can. I'm just going to present SV's proposal, because we have presented this on behalf of the Greens' Environment Party in the vote. I can just say that we support both dog and cat ID markings. The aim of this proposal is precisely to make it easier for volunteers, the police, the Food Authority, etc. to find out who the owners of lost animals are, and to find them. I think maybe the main purpose, as I understand it, is to increase the value of the animals, increase the value of having your own pets and increase respect for the animals. Animal husbandry must therefore be more important and must also be responsible for the animal owner. So on this basis, we're supporting the creation of an ID marking for both dogs and cats. I'm submitting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1071	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1076	Animals have self-esteem in addition to being useful and happy for humans, and I am happy that the entire committee is concerned about this. Respectful treatment of animals is important, and our recognition of the position of animals must be reflected in the policy pursued. The Animal Welfare Act confirms the self-esteem of animals and the obligations of humans towards animals. We have a duty to help, we have a duty to warn if there is a suspicion that animals are being abused, we have a clear ban on violence against animals, and we have strict rules for all those who are involved in animal husbandry. That's very good. For a liberal party such as the Left, the fight for better animal welfare is fundamental, and penetration such as the establishment of animal police and the closure of fur animal nutrition is important for the Left. Unfortunately, although the self-esteem of animals is statutory, it is not always followed up in practice. Both in agriculture and in the case of pet animals, more measures and more systematic work are needed to improve animal welfare. Although most Norwegians take good care of their pets, we know that cats and rabbits are also put in garbage when the owners are tired of them. We know that thousands of cats either disappear from the owners or get dumped by the owners, and the ID marking of pets can help against this. At the same time, most dogs are already marked, and some cats are also marked. Therefore, it is possible that impositions on ID marking will cost a lot more money and require more resources – without a large gain. However, the Left sees that other countries are starting to impose ID marking on pet animals, and we believe it is right to carefully assess whether it should also be introduced into Norway. At the moment, the Food Safety Authority is examining the costs and benefits of introducing a mandatory dog ID marking, and the Left will closely follow this investigation to see whether mandatory pet ID marking should also be considered in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1089	That animals have self-esteem regardless of the benefits to us humans, is very clear and clear in the Animal Welfare Act. The proposal we are discussing here today is about following up the Animal Welfare Act with measures that actually ensure that it is complied with. In 2009, animal protection took care of 3,641 animals. In 2018, the number had doubled. The animals are often undiscovered and lost, and many of them are dumped. We're mostly talking about cat breaks and dogs and increasingly rabbits. Unmarked animals lack legal protection. When an owner cannot be identified, it is virtually impossible to prosecute those who dump their family animals, even though there are obvious violations of the Animal Welfare Act. Most animal owners are responsible and seek knowledge. Most dog owners label their animals, but the problem is just the ones who don't. We need a clear law that also those who are unconscious animal owners, who may not have the knowledge we want them to have, also follow the duties and understand the duties they have as animal owners. Not requiring ID marking is to continue sending a strong signal that what happens to the animal is up to the owner, since the animals have no identity for the authorities. It makes the animal an asset more than an individual with rights. This important principle I believe that the majority of the parties are now jumping over, and it also tells a lot about the status of animals in Norwegian politics, because in this case there is no lack of arguments. Mandatory ID marking means that the animal owner must visit a veterinarian when she has new offspring and have a conversation about both vaccines and sterilisation. That's good, and it seems general preventive both against accidental neglect because of little knowledge and against direct animal abuse, of which it is fortunately much less. Mandatory ID marking will probably make you think twice before getting animals, and it's also good, because today it's completely non-binding and very easy to buy and sell family animals. I am pleased that all parties recognise the problem, but the government parties, the Central Party and the Advance Party are still concerned that mandatory ID marking is resource-intensive to enforce, and they are voting down the proposals today. However, today’s situation is also resource-intensive, in addition to causing a lot of suffering and shifting responsibility to non-governmental organisations. In 2018, animal protection spent more than 22 million. kr for handling homeless animals. Of these, 12 million went. kr for veterinary expenses. If the animal does not have an identifiable owner, the veterinarians may charge the costs covered by the Food Safety Authority. The police are also using a lot of resources to track down owners, so in total, there are huge social costs that we do not require ID marking today. Experience from England shows that mandatory ID marking is important. It's also a unison demand from anyone who accepts lost and homeless dogs and cats. Spain has already introduced it. The Netherlands and Belgium follow. I think it's going to happen in Norway too, but it obviously requires more games.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1111	The identification of animals is required and well established for food-producing animals and for horses. In the case of pet animals, a large proportion of both dogs and cats are marked because the owner himself has chosen to have this done. Today, the authorities require the labelling of pet animals only if they are to travel with the animals across national borders. The question of introducing mandatory dog and cat labelling has been discussed in this room before, in which case it has been assessed to be inconclusive or that the dietary value has been small in relation to the purpose. However, the identification of pets can serve many important purposes and be useful for both private and public operators. This could be about, for example: Reunification with owner, handling of homeless animals, breeding, placing on the market, introduction and, in particular, enforcement of the dog law, for which my department took responsibility last year. Both owners and breeders, dog clubs, veterinarians, Food Safety, Police and Customs have the benefit of establishing a safe identity for the animals. That's why I think it makes sense to start there where there are most different challenges we're going to meet. Last summer, therefore, the Danish Food Safety Authority was commissioned to issue a general requirement for the identification and registration of all dogs in Norway. The aim is to get an overview of the benefits of a requirement for dog ID marking and the challenges it can solve, and to re-assess the cost-benefit of such a measure. A harmonised EU legislation requires the identification of pet animals to be moved across national borders. In addition, the identification of dogs is required by national legislation in most EU countries, which is a requirement in most EU countries. The Ministry has therefore addressed this issue and wishes the Food Safety Authority to assess it broadly and on a broad basis. For this reason, I think it is wise to await the overall assessment of actions by the Food Safety Authority regarding dogs. Until we get that assessment, I believe it is premature to investigate the mandatory scheme for the general identification of cats and other pets in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1124	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1129	I am pleased with the assignment of the Food Safety Authority to provide mandatory labelling for all dogs. I see that it is a challenge and a sort of paradox that it is easier for us to introduce a mandatory dog ID marking. The dogs are with their owner in everyday life, and 80 pst. of the dogs have already been marked, so there will be a less invasive measure. But at the same time, there are cats that go more outside, that multiply more easily, and that there are bigger problems of becoming homeless and getting away from the owner. Dumping is also much more so in the case of cats. What is the reason why you won't also try to make sure that more cats are identified?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1136	First, I want to recognise very much the commitment to animal welfare, because I feel that behind the Document 8, the proposal that lies here, there is such an commitment. In the case of cats, they have a completely different life, as the representative here says. While for dogs it's over 80 pst., almost 89 pst., we guess, which is marked, for cats it's just about 50 pst. – the way we can see it, I guess. But cats live a different life, they're out. Many of them have also been propagated, and it makes it a much more demanding job if we claim identity and ID marking. But we're going to be able to follow up on this in a different way than what we do for a dog, because there's a completely different way between people and dogs than between people and cats – when they're out in a completely different way than what the dogs are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1143	I think the fact that the cat goes more freely outside is a reason why it is even more important to label the ID. There is also a clear signal from those organisations that take care of, vaccine, take care of and try to find new owners of animals that get away from their owners or that have been poorly treated. But if we put the mandatory ID marking a little aside, it's very important which other measures you want to introduce to cat owners. I think it's a hugely important realization that there's not bad intentions, but often lack of knowledge out there, and the authorities have little to do with now. Nor do many animal owners give any indication that it is a public task to care for animals and to ensure that those animals are treated well. It's up to the animal owner himself to take responsibility for. What other measures is the Ministry and the Council of State now considering to prevent the increasing dumping of animals in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1152	I want to make sure that getting a pet is primarily the responsibility of the owner. I sit as a dog owner myself and know how much responsibility it is. It's not just getting an animal that one should have for a short period of time, and then one should be able to dump it. If a pet has been acquired, a person has assumed responsibility for the care of that animal. Unfortunately, I see that there are some – not all, but some – who have an easy way of actually being able to take ownership of it. We have to make owners responsible when they take a pet into their home. It's a responsibility we as a state can't take for people. But we can join in and put the frames around, so that they can take care of the animals, because that responsibility can't actually dissociate the animal owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1157	What does the Council of State think might be the cause of an increasing degree of dumping of domestic animals in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1162	I think that's a difficult question, because you don't fully understand what's been in the past. But one sees that it's a big commitment to having pets, and once you've acquired pets, one also sees that there are challenges – it's not just good days; it's also coming challenging days, it's coming job, it's coming vacations, it's coming cabin life, it's coming other challenges that require that it's not just food in everyday life. It's also about a responsibility those days it's not. I'm not sure if everyone takes over when either one or the kids like a pet. It's a big responsibility one assumes when acquiring a pet.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1167	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1185	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1192	This case concerns the management of forest property by Statskog. State forest manages one fifth of the land area in Norway. The representatives of the Workers' Party are asking in this proposal for the cessation of the sale of property. Today’s arrondissements are being sold on the basis of a strategy adopted by Stoltenberg II in 2010. It is not certain that everyone who sits and looks at this in the thousands of homes, knows what arrondering and arrondering sales are. ‘Arroondering’ is French and means rounding. In this context, there is talk of achieving rational boundaries on the property by selling intermediate and scattered areas. So it's not about selling out property for real estate sales. Nor is it a question of privatization of State Forest, which perhaps some prefer to produce it as. The aim is to ensure the most appropriate management of the state's property. I assume that the proposers will make a more detailed explanation of the proposal themselves. Let's take a look at what happened in 2010, which is the very basis for Statskog's strategy of arrondering sales. Then Statskog bought 1,1 million covered property from Orkla. The working party and SV were in fact followers of the fact that this purchase was to be conditional on a certain sale – of 600,000 jobs. So far, 215 properties have been sold for a total of 540 000 dekars. At the recommendation of Statskog, the Solberg government went in and put on a sale of 150 000 dean to – as appropriate. The same arguments used by Stoltenberg II in 2010 were used, namely that this gives better arrondance, that it could trigger useful makeshift areas, improve the basis for operation and strengthen the company’s economy. In fact, in the 2010 proposition, the current government states: ‘Such roundabout sales may help to strengthen the nutrient base of private forest owners, municipalities and general public.’ The right is concerned with local value creation, and this sale just contributes to it. It's a limited sale, and the net increase in the area of State Forest is now 350,000 deches. Now everyone's right will also make everyone free to take care of God's free nature, so there's no obstacle either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1212	I want to start by thanking the case spokesman, and of course I would also like to thank the Labour Party and SV, who in 2010 took part in this important decision to ensure that the Borregaard forests were secured in Norwegian hands when they arrived for sale. It was a very important decision that we got there. It was also good for one to agree at the same time on a consensus between the three parties in the government, that one should use this opportunity to strengthen local private forest owners in Norway. It was a very good thing in every way. The fact that an increase in the arrondance hall from 600 000 dek to 750 000 dek: yes, for the criticism that some parties are addressing the sale that is currently taking place, that change has no significance, because one has not reached the 600,000. This is a proposal and a process that has certain national ownership, it has secured the local private ownership – I think it is a pity that the proposers attack it in this proposal – and we have a legislation that guarantees the general interest in these forests. For the Central Party, this is a very simple matter, because we have the program confirmation that the National Forest Hall will be completed. We're going to keep the promises given to forest owners, landowners all over the country. We're going to stick to the unity between the Center Party, the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party in 2010. Then the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV have a proposal that points to the need to strengthen the forest industry and industrial construction around the forest. I'll deal with that proposal. It is a proposal that is important, regardless of the ownership of the forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1225	The representative of Geir Pollestad then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1230	The matter we are dealing with today is essentially about our common forests. Allemannsrecht, which SV has proposed to include in the Constitution, is under a certain pressure. Increased privatisation of our natural areas could challenge this further. State or other public ownership makes it easier to use a comprehensive nature management system that uses the UN’s sustainability targets. This is not least the case in protection processes for important natural habitats related to coniferous forests, and in particular mountain forests. State forest bought the Borregaard forests from Orkla in 2010. The purchase required a loan of SEK 475 million. NOK, and on this basis they were allowed to sell the forest to finance the loan. The loan has now been repaid, but the arrears are continuing. The Solberg government has even stepped it up from 600,000 decks to 750,000 decks. SV believes that some of the sale is ok and some of the less ok. Selling to other public agencies, such as parts of environmental management or municipalities, is fine, also to some local forest managers, but the longer away from the forest the buyer lives, the more difficult we think this is going to be. 30 pst. out of the 540 000 dean now sold, limited liability companies or persons living entirely elsewhere than where the forest is located have fallen. This we no longer regard as an arrogance, but as a privatisation of our common resources. The national forests are our common resources and must benefit the many, not the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1239	Common people's access to our nature and to outdoor life is a proud part of Norwegian culture, but more places in our country are starting to hunt for more reserved ones who have a lot of money and thick wallets. That's one of the things. The issue of State Forest is whether we should have some areas in Norway where we are all on the same footing, even though we do not necessarily have such a great deal of wealth or are landowners themselves, or know someone – that is, that in practice there is equal access to hunting and to that part of the open-air life that very many in Norway set high. As has already been mentioned, large-scale privatisation of large areas is taking place. When e.g. a lawyer who lives in town and has nothing to do with local forestry, buys a large part of Hitra, it has nothing to do with arrondering. It is a pure privatisation, and it is the Workers' Party strongly opposed. And as has already been well explained, the loan, which was to finance the purchase of more common forests, has been paid down. Once we've paid down the loan on our house, we don't continue to pay off. Then the job is done, and we can say that the asset is now purchased and paid and financed. It is also true that in the sale of the area there are both cabins and berths that are currently available to the public, and these are often cabins built in areas where there will never be any further building permits. That might be very true for a lot of reasons, but it also means that that part of the open-air life is being restricted. For the Workers' Party, which is a proud champion of the community, of equivalent access to outdoor life, physical activity and the ability to harvest healthy food, this is an important matter of principle. And we have a lot of people with us in this, who support the fight that we still own some common Norwegian forests. In particular, Norway’s Hunter and Fishery Associations are concerned with children’s and young people’s opportunities to enjoy hunting and fishing and outdoor activities. That we have somewhere in our country where Norway's Hunters' and Fishers' Federation, together with the public, can make sure that pup hunting and elga hunting are good for those who will be happy in nature and outdoors in the future, is a very smart public health investment. We hope that the Storting now understands what this is all about. It is the access to hunting, fishing and outdoor life for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1250	I'm recording that it takes eight years to forget what you've actually been on yourself. Memory disappears from the head in eight years. For it was a broad majority who actually adopted this under the Stoltenberg II government, where the Workers' Party was seated in the driver's seat. It was a broad majority, on a proposal from the Stoltenberg II government, on the basis that in 2010 Statskog bought large forest properties from Orkla ASA. One wanted to strengthen Statskog as a leading forest owner. The red-green government, with the consent of the Storting, including the Workers' Party, not only gave a clear signal to the forest purchase from Orkla with subsequent arrears sales; they actually also set the guidelines for the sale, including the point that one should achieve the highest price in the real estate market. The working party was so satisfied with the arrondering sale that they asked the government to assess the sale of forest also in Nordland and Troms, as well as properties in South and Middle Norway. Even more funny is the fact that the co-proposal for document 8 today was the case rapporteur, Terje Aasland. While the Workers' Party now gives the impression that more land was sold than they wanted, as they said was a good idea, the truth is that there is not as much forest as the Workers' Party said was good, with 540,000 dekar. Nor is it correct, as the Workers' Party here claims, that you are excluded from the forest and outland property, because the rights of all persons apply in any case. It also applies to properties sold in a roundabout sale. It is clear, and hunting and fishing rights also follow the basic ownership rights when sold. This is not new, nor should it come as a surprise to the proposers. There is also no automatic reduction of access when the rights change owner. It's a paradox when Lars Haltbrecken stands here and says 30 pst. have been sold out. Yes, then at least we have to count on the Environment Directorate and the municipalities, because in the figures given, it is 7 pst. that goes out, inter alia: to local owners in neighbouring municipalities. So even though the Workers' Party has made the big ham change in relation to what is the policy, which was the memory eight years ago, at least the Center Party must be commended for being clear on what they stood for eight years ago. For the purchase of Orkla's forests and arrondering sales, the total yields more forest in public ownership, and all-man rights will apply regardless of ownership. That's also why the proposal at the time got broad agreement, but today we see that eight years is the time for memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1263	The representative Sandtrøen hoped that the Storting would understand what this is really about. I believe most people in Stortinget understand that this is about the Workers' Party and SV's refusal to let private owners own anything. I think that's most of what it's all about. This is 1,1 billion. Deka, which was bought by Orkla once in a while, as was then private forest. Now some of it's going to be private again, but it's a full opportunity for anyone to be in the woods and take advantage of the facilities that the forest has. Some of the properties have been purchased by people in the neighbouring municipality, who then have forests in the neighborhood for this. Something has been bought up by companies that also run forests. I'm not saying that Kistefo's forests have bought anything, but there are companies that have bought it, and that run the forest in an excellent way, that sell hunting and fishing licenses in a proper way, that cultivate fish water and run the care of both forests and game tribes. Nor are prices that ordinary people cannot pay. Ordinary people can use hunting, they can take advantage of the forest, and they can take advantage of the facilities available. This is a sale to strengthen an industry that Norway absolutely needs, and it is helping to strengthen an industry that wants to become even stronger. The private landowners, the foresters, and the farmers today, want this. They want to be able to buy in and get a more efficient operation of their properties. But this is the Workers' Party and the Center's opposite. They believe that the state is better off afforestation than private forest owners — see who can. This is an important matter of principle, as Sandtrøen said. Yes, it is. It's an important principle case for most people that we get a business life that can stand on our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1282	The state’s justification for ownership of State Forest SF is to ensure the sustainable management of state forest and mountain areas and associated resources. It includes, inter alia: facilitating the public's needs for hunting, fishing and outdoor life. In 2010, State Forest bought large forest properties from Orkla. In 2011, a roundabout sale was started. Statskog's board thought that the forest purchase combined with the sale of scattered forest properties would provide better arrondance of the land of Statskog. The majority of the Business Committee, including the members of the Workers' Party, were satisfied with the plans for a comprehensive arrondering sale in 2010. The red-green government adopted the sales policy, where State Forest would seek to obtain the highest price for the properties they would sell. Following an investigation by Statskog, this government opened up in order to extend the arrears of approximately 600 000 covers by up to 150 000 covers where it would provide an arrears gain for the enterprise. The guidelines were continued. Until now, 215 properties have been sold for a total of 540,000 dekars. 66 pst. by the properties sold locally, 12 pst. to the Environment Directorate, 7 pst. for municipalities and 15 pst. to others. State forest has informed that a large part of the second group is forest and landowners in neighbouring municipalities. It is Statskog's government that assesses the usefulness of a further arronding sale. If State Forest makes use of their full powers, it will continue to have larger areas available to the public than it had in 2010. Therefore, it is difficult to understand why this is produced as if the government were selling away the forests of the community to a large extent and deprived the public of access to hunting, fishing and outdoor life, especially when the reality is only a continuation of the arrondissement sale that was started under the red-green government, as well as an opening to expand the sale if Statskog believes it would make sense to strengthen the business. I can therefore not see anything that speaks of withdrawing the mandate from Statskog to complete the arrondissement sale, which has been approved by Stortinget since 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1296	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1301	There are several things about this explanation that are not entirely related, because in the original setting from Stortinget, when we bought more forest, i.e. strengthened community forest areas, it said that selling scattered parcels could strengthen local ownership. Is the Minister of Agriculture agreeing that the sale of e.g. a large part of Hitra to a person who lives in the city and has nothing to do with local forestry has anything to do with local forestry? Or is it just a mere privatization?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1306	When a buys a forest property or an agricultural property, it's a sale, and then there's a concession on this, and that concession is the municipality that gives according to the rules that apply to a municipality. So this question I think is actually about a sale that has been, that is to have concessional treatment, and that is to be approved by the municipality in which Hitra is located.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1311	It was not an answer to the question of whether it was privatisation, because it is obvious that it is a purely privatisation. Then we go into the core of what is the main purpose of the Workers' Party's proposal, which is opportunities for hunting. Here in the day I checked for my own part, because I think it is very exciting both with forest bird and turnip hunting, and then I see, among other things. that in Statskog's areas in my vicinity I can buy an annual card for three days at a price that is one third of other areas nearby. Does the Minister of Agriculture agree that Statskog, with its areas around Norway, is important in order for everyone to have equal access? And if the Minister of Agriculture agrees, does that not mean that large areas are privatized and there are no areas of State forest left, that parts of the population can be excluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1318	I think I have to give the representative a little bit of history, because it's more area to Statskog after 2010 than what it was when one decided this, because one bought a larger area than one has sold. So it's going to be minus plus plus, and then it'll also be a larger area for the community's good, and when a seller of the land, he also sells hunting rights. But there's a bigger area today than it was in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1323	Yes, but that doesn't mean – e.g. if State forest loses much of Hitra — that the population locally in Hitra or near Trøndelag will be able to hunt in those areas longer. And it'll obviously be able to push the price up. On top of this, the Right-Registration has led a policy that liberalises large parts of forest property management, which also contributes to the upward price pressure. Most investors, for example: in a share, it is an advantage that the price at which it is received is low in order to expect repayment of the investment. Is it not the upward price pressure on forestry property that the liberalist policy leads to, just weakening active forestry and contributing to more speculation and higher prices in order to get into forestry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1330	I think the working party should think about, that they can look a little bit in the rear mirror to drive the leg forward. It's actually like they went in to sell a certain number of deacons with woods, and then a hat should be in the mind both hunting and price. But one is left with a larger area for forest management than one has before, precisely because Statskog should be able to exploit its system, to have the best use of its forest property as a state ownership. It was the Workers' Party for 2010, and if they have suddenly changed that view, they'd rather say it – from wanting to strengthen Statskog as a good forest driver, who's in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1335	I think everyone should be happy that the sale of the Borregaard forests took place when it was an agricultural minister from the Central Party and not an agricultural minister from the Progress Party. I think it's easy to be a few of them. Even if I support the arrondingsalt, there's one point I'm jumping a little over, and it's about openness around who buys these properties. A fundamental principle in Norway is that there should be full openness about who owns property. If it's the case that one has to disconnect Statskog with information from the Basebook to find out who actually owns the property, I think it's too hard to find out who buys these properties. We want this to strengthen private, local ownership, and I believe a greater degree of openness about who actually buys would be useful. I can't see that privacy can be taken over by public opinion about who owns a forest in Norway. Would you like to make sure that you have a change here?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1346	I know that Statskog's board has been concerned about privacy in this, but I also know that the evening post has been able to find out who owns the different properties that have been sold, so there is a possibility window here. It is not that they have done this to cover any sale. I have also heard that it has been mentioned that it has been sold to foreign representatives, etc., but I know that everyone who has bought has a Norwegian person number. I'm going to ask you what you're asking, what's the basis for doing it this way? Because what I feel the representative is asking for is to have an availability that allows more people to find out who the owner is, without having to look through several things.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1355	The President must point out that Bollestad must not say "you" to Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1360	Some of the best things to read in the Jærbladet or in the Gäsdalbogen are the sides of ownership transfers, where one can see who has married, who has divorced, and who has moved – that is, full openness about who buys property in Norway. Then I think that also in this case, when it comes to ownership of forest land, it's important to know who owns the forest, when, for example, one. shall preserve or require its general law, etc. So I really hope that Statskog here gets a clear message that this is what they're going to contribute to. I think it's ruining the discussion that there's a speculation about who buys these woods. We must be completely open about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1366	The representative Pollestad may find it very exciting to read the Jærbladet and Gäsdalbogen – who has divorced, who has married, and who has bought properties. I don't think it's very interesting, but I'm replying that I'm going to take with me to Statskog's board a request that we get an openness that makes a freer speculation. I think that's wise, both for the company and for the public, and not least to let go of the speculation that properties are sold abroad, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1371	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1376	Today, claims have been made that the arrondance sale to the State Forest is a major privatisation, that it restricts people's freedom of movement, and that the sale weakens the access of people most to hunting, fishing and outdoors. It's a reality I don't know about. First of all, this is a very limited sale, and second, you have all the possibilities for universal access. The private owners are produced as a caricured edition of Uncle Skrue, who roll over in his own wealth and who will not share with anyone. It's not like that. There are examples of poor management of private owners, that is true, but there are also examples of poor government. The Workers' Party is strongly involved in this matter. After laying out a plan for rounding sales in 2010, they now state: «Private purchases of the properties do not benefit the public. The properties are purchased to become private hunting grounds for the owner, while local hunters and fishermen lose access.’ That's the case today, this is on the Workers' Party's website. These are speculations that don't really mess up. Yes, it is some limited liability company that has purchased property, but it is not the partner, and this does not threaten hunting and fishing in Norway. The part of hunting and fishing managed by local landowners shows that people are conscious of their social responsibility. It's not like you have to be a state to care about or to show social responsibility, but in Norway we have long traditions for private owners to facilitate hunting and outdoors. This also leads to high value creation, employment and also tax access. Then there are expensive hunting packages, but it's a disappearing little part of it all. Among the purchasers of property from Statskog are the farmers who actually want to buy back land for their agricultural properties. This provides an opportunity for the farmer as a self-employed person to have a greater right to dispose of larger property, and it also provides more sustainability and viability for the farmer. Local buyers have provided 66 pst. of the purchases of property. At the stoppage of the sale, as the Workers' Party wishes, many lose an important opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1392	Sometimes it is an advantage to have been involved in the story that is now being debated – it is completely wrong. The starting point was a historic state purchase of Borregaard's forests. It was a fantastic investment for Statskog and a fantastic investment for the community. We then ensured important, valuable forests as a basis for active forestry, but we also ensured access to hunting, fishing, cabins, etc. That's the story. As part of the financing of this historic purchase, it was designed to enable State Forest to sell 600 000 cover forests, but with two assumptions. One was that it was going to strengthen local, active forest ownership, and – point two – that one would repay the debt, which was 475 million. kr. That was the assumption. So there's now a question mark about whether there's any reason to question this by now being sold to God and Whomansen. Of course, there's a reason to question it, because that's not what was the assumption in 2010. The 2010 assumption, where we were also in a rather difficult situation when it came to our forest industry, was that we wanted to strengthen the possibility of exploiting the forest for industry, for value creation. That was the assumption. So here you try to represent it as if this is just a small, fictitious sale and to increase this by 150,000 pieces. No, it doesn't, because it's a significant and fundamental change from what was foreseen in 2010, where one was supposed to essentially strengthen local ownership and active forestry. I have not heard the Minister of Agriculture mention it at all as a prerequisite for what she is doing to the State Forest. What was the premise of the Storting must be followed up, and then you have to make sure that the farmers and the forest owners who are local actually get better properties to manage, easier properties to manage and perhaps more productive properties to manage. Then the state can sit on some of what is more unproductive forest, but that can be amazing agricultural properties for non-profit purposes. That's how you should think about this matter. But so far the right parties and the Minister of Agriculture are trying to minimize what is now happening to Statskog. Point one: Make sure that a roundabout sale is to strengthen local forest owners and active forestry, and – point two – did not increase that sale further from what was initially the basis, namely to cover the loan of 475 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1405	I'm very happy that we get this discussion. The starting point is, as the representative of Aasland just said, that in time we have agreed to a roundabout sale. In a row, there are opportunities for other forest owners to get a dough locally until, get an operationally efficient unit and operate the forest properly. With arrondering, we don't think that people are going to buy a real estate for leisure far from where they live. One element of this matter that is important is the actual situation of Norwegian forestry. There State Forest has been and is a good, professional driver. It must be a cross of thought when State Forest disposes of within the limits set by the Storting, namely that, to the extent that one does, the arrogance must also lead to active operation and good holdings for any other private in the same area. The second thing I am concerned about in this matter is the possibilities of outdoor life. There I heard the representative Gimse say it was protected by public rights. Those of us who don't own any forest, but like to use it, know that neither hunting nor fishing is part of public rights. That's the thing you have to rent yourself the right to do with the person who's the landowner. Therefore, the disposal of forest to private — when large units are sold to one private owner — is not protected by public rights for the things mentioned here: the possibilities of hunting and fishing, and not least of making it an affordable price, mentioned earlier in the debate. The reality is that we're used to thinking that the Norwegian state owns a lot, that the state is big in Norway. But in the case of forests, there are actually quite a number of countries in Europe where the state owns more than what we do in Norway. For that reason, I am very pleased that this discussion has traveled, and I hope that there will be a matter for Stortinget where we can get a thorough discussion of the state's future ownership of forests in a forestry perspective and in a nature conservation perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1418	It's like the government's big idea is to privatize as much as possible, not only the health care system, but also the forest and other important areas that we've had and have in our common ownership. And where – I'm going to give the case rapporteur Gimse right in – does not angle the government, there are the steady ones in their job of privatizing as much as possible, as quickly as possible. That's why there's also reason to be skeptical and critical when there's a case like this on the table, where it's about selling out our common forest. Because it's about, as it's been said here before, our common opportunities for hunting and fishing. It's not about not being allowed to go in that forest, because it covers all-man rights, but it's about the possibility for ordinary people to actually get access to hunting and fishing, for a payment that a common man and woman in the street can afford. And those opportunities are getting less and less certain when you choose to sell away from the land of the state. Norway's Hunters and Fishermen's Association has expressed its views on this earlier, and they say that public access to hunting, fishing and outdoor life is at stake: ‘Grunneier has the right to decide who can hunt and fish on the property. The exception is the land of the State where everyone has access. When public properties are sold to private individuals, we no longer have this guarantee. Sold.’» This is what the Norwegian League of Hunters and Fishermen said, and we must give the Norwegian League of Hunters and Fishermen the right thing to do. But that's not what this government is concerned about. They're more concerned with selling away from public-owned areas, that is, things that we own together. That is the main objective of the government also in this matter, and that is, as I said, all reason to be both sceptical and critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1432	I record that there is different understanding of history, but the 2010 decision was to sell up to 600,000 dean. We have not yet sold it. We've sold 540,000 dean. It was also decided that these 600 000 dekars should be sold at the highest price possible. There was no decision to sell them only for public purposes. It was at the highest price possible. It was the red-green government that passed, but the other parties have not disagreed with it. Yes, it is true that the proceeds of the sale were to be used to repay the loan that the company had received from the country when they were to buy Borregaard. It is also true that the loan has been disbursed, as the representative of Aasland says, but it is not true that the purpose of the arrears sale was to pay off the loan. The purpose of the sale was to improve the arrival in Statskog. It was to strengthen the economy of Statskog, and thus the ability to achieve the objectives as this hall had said that one should have for the activities of Statskog. That was the basis for the whole arrondance discussion at that time. When one said that all this was sold to private people, I said in my previous post: it was sold 540,000 pieces. 66 pst. by the properties sold locally, 12 pst. to the Environment Directorate, 7 pst. to the municipalities. As rapporteur, I myself remember asking for the public interest in the municipality that the Workers' Party is now running. 15 pst. have been sold to others. State forest reports that most of the 15 pst. by ‘others’ are forest and land owners in neighbouring municipalities of the inward cadastral parcel they bought.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1441	Governments know very well that when there are majority comments in a position, there are indications of how things should be handled. As of 2010, there is no doubt that the majority of the Storting informed very clearly that the arrondering sale would trigger revenues to Statskog that would go to pay down the loan of 475 million. kr. So it was a prerequisite for the total funding given, both through grants of capital to State Forest and the opening before the arrondance sale that was there. In addition, there was a lead that one should have an active local ownership as a prerequisite for the arrondance sale. That's when I ask questions about how Statskog practices this. In my own county, in the municipality of Tinn, there is a property of 17 000 decks at a value of 15 million. kr. There is no farmer, there are no property owners or anyone who operates in Tinn, who can initially handle such a large purchase. It's very clear from local authorities that a split up the property, so it can benefit local people. But Statskog chooses to ignore it. In my opinion, Statskog really ignores the leaders on the basis of the arronding sales, from the majority of the Storting in 2010. But it can only be done if they have an agricultural minister who is nodding to the acceptance that Statskog is now giving. So I would strongly recommend that the Minister of Agriculture, as soon as she is finished in this debate, return to his own department and write a letter to or instructs Statskog, so that the arrogance sales or the sales that are now taking place can be done in such a way that local ownership and property development benefit – and also assume that through it one can get increased and active forestry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1450	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1462	The size is then ready to go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1512	During the debate, Dag Terje Andersen presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government’s handling of the illegal systematic mass collection and storage of air passenger information is highly critical, as the government had information on the situation but failed to stop the practice.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1740	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1750	The law decision will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1762	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of mandatory ID marking for cats.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1788	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1793	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1798	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1817	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to introduce mandatory dog ID markings.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to issue a compulsory scheme for the general identification of other family animals in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1848	During the debate, Mr Pollestad presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case to the Stortinget showing how Statskog SF can invest in further processing forest industry in Norway and contribute to more industrial construction and industrial development also locally in the areas where Statskog SF owns properties.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1872	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-22.ana.ud364e1899	Thus, the matters on today's map are handled. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
