ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e52	From 12 May to 14 May, an application has been made for the extension of the authorised representative’s permit for Trond Giske until 15 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kristian Torve, continues to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e72	In addition, two permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on sickness leave of the representative Kari Henriksen from 14 May onwards and until further notice from the Socialist Left Group on welfare leave of the representative Freddy André Øvstegård from 19 May to 28 May These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate for West Agder, Odd Omland, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under Kari Henriksen's leave due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For West-Agder: Astrid Margrethe Hilde For Eastfold: Camilla Sørensen Eidsvold
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e117	Astrid Margrethe Hilde is present and will take the seat. The representative of Morten Stordalen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e124	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Tor André Johnsen, Hans Andreas Limi and myself, I have been delighted to make a proposal for a representative to set up New Baner AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e129	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President recalls that voting today takes place at the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e149	Document 12:5 for 2015–2016, promoted by representatives of the Socialist Left Party, contains five amendments to the Basic Law provisions dealing with the relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church. Document 12:32 for 2015-2016, supported by representatives from the Left, proposes two amendments to the Basic Law that address the same subject. The two proposals in Document 12:32 are identical to two of the proposals in Document 12:5 and relate to the removal of Section 4, which refers to the king's confession to the Evangelical Lutheran religion, as well as to the amendment of Section 16, so that the Norwegian Church will no longer have a special status as the Church of Norway and have legal support from the State. In Document 12:5 there are also suggestions to remove the basis of value from the Basic Law Section 2 and to remove “so true help me God the all-powerful and all-knowing” in the oath of the king, princes and princesses, mentioned in Sections 9 and 44. The Committee has examined all the proposals in its opinion. The proposed constitutions have the intention of clarifying a complete distinction between state and religion. In the view of the proposers, the remaining provisions of the Constitution are not compatible with a State which must be neutral in its belief and outlook on life. Furthermore, the proposers believe that the state should not be linked to one particular religion, since choosing faith and outlook is personal choice. I believe that the respective proposers or their party groups will explain their views and the minority's proposals, and will therefore further justify the conclusion of the majority of the committee, which is promoted by the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and independent representative Leirstein. The Norwegian Church is a people's church with very deep roots here in the country. The Church and the Christian and humanistic cultural heritage have shaped Norway for more than 1,000 years and must be considered central to understanding the values of the nation. With this in mind, we believe that the Norwegian Church should still have a separate anchor in the Constitution, and that this does not in any way prevent all the inhabitants of the country from being treated equally and fairly, regardless of their beliefs and outlook on life. Equal treatment and fair treatment have also been ensured through the support schemes currently in force for the financing of religious and life- views. Over my years as a national elector, I can hardly remember another case that has received such thorough treatment repeatedly, and that has ended with the same conclusion with broad support in the Storting, as the relationship between the state and the Norwegian Church. It has gone through several dents and has been thoroughly treated. In addition, in 2014, there was a thorough review of the Constitution, and the negotiated state–church agreement was the basis for the review of the paragraphs in which amendments have now been proposed – i.e. as late as 2014. A new collective law on religious and life-sight societies was also recently adopted here in this room. The new law is a completion of the state-church agreement and is based on the agreement and on the Constitutional Law. This has been done on the basis of a clear majority of the Stortinget who have stated that the Norwegian Church should have a separate anchoring in the Constitution. We can't see that there's something that was supposed to change this now. The majority therefore argues that the proposals in Documents 12:5 and 12:32 are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e166	Let me begin by expressing my full support for the statement of the majority's views expressed here by the President of the Court of Justice. I'm not in any particular doubt about if we could start with blank papers and write the Constitution today, hardly the aforementioned paragraphs would be the way they are now. However, as the rapporteur pointed out, the balanced wording that is currently in both the Constitution and other legislation, is a result of a very thorough work on wholesale communications, with treatments, with agreement, with proposals and with amendments to the Constitution in the past. It was a difficult process under the good leadership of the then Church Minister Trond Giske against the conclusions. It's like all compromises that they're not necessarily every party's first priority, but this is the result of a compromise that takes over and takes into account that the Christian cultural heritage is a central part of Norwegian history, and it was a balanced solution that was then found. As I said, I don't think the paragraphs would be formulated like that today if we didn't have a history. However, for the Labour Party, it is natural when we have entered into a broad settlement, where different considerations are balanced against each other, that we are on the basis of the agreements we have concluded, and then we believe it is natural that the conclusion, as the rapporteur has said, is that the proposed amendments to the Constitution are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e175	I would first like to thank the President-in-Office for a very good work, and I support his conclusions on the matter. This is a matter that comes up again and again, but that still gets a clear multiple against it. The Norwegian Church is part of the culture and history of Norway. It's a people's church with a thousand-year-old roots in the country. Land, people and church are close together. One example of this is we find home at Voss, where I live. The church of Voss is located in the center of Vosevangen. She has been a part of people's lives both for everyday life and for parties – and in grief. She has doctors there since the 1200s, she was built by her own men. We find the drawings from Magnus Lagbøte, who encouraged the men to work with the unique stone church. In the Constitutional Agreement of 2014, and through the laws on trust societies, the Storting has brought up the relationship between the Church and the State. The Constitution states that the Norwegian Church is a church of the people, that it has the right to financial support from the state, and that the king should recognize the Evangelical Lutheran religion. This is how Grundlova shows that the Folk Church is at the bottom of the state form and is part of our culture and history. This stands up on national ground, as pushed as the stone church home on Voss. I recommend that we do not support these suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e186	We should be proud that what Norway represents, our freedoms and our democracy. We shall be proud of our Christian cultural heritage, it shall not be hidden, it shall be lifted up. Our Christian history is taking us into a new era. It characterizes us as a country, and the values are constantly relevant into a new era. The Church and the Christian and humanist cultural heritage have been embossing the country for more than 1,000 years. This should still be the value base of the nation of Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that the Norwegian Church should still have a separate anchor in the Constitution. This does not conflict with ensuring equal and fair treatment for all citizens of the country, regardless of belief and outlook on life. I am pleased that the majority of the committee and the majority of the majority of the majority are still on this line, but the values are under pressure. They must be defended, and the Christian People's Party stands up in this defence, because the Christian ethics and cultural heritage is an important historical heritage and represents some common values for Norwegian society. Yes, Christianity characterizes our human vision, our values, our laws, our history and our culture. This is still to be an important part of the core wall of Norwegian society. A new arrangement of the Church-State relationship implies at the same time that these values are retained in the Constitution. That should be so, and the Christian People's Party does not support proposals that contribute to weakening the Constitution at this point. It was historically important for our future religious policy that a unanimous increase in its time gathered to change the Constitution, so that the political overarching of the Norwegian Church was removed, that support for the Church of Nations and other religious and life-view societies was grounded, and that it was established that the basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. At the same time, religious freedom was established, along with respect for human rights. The political agreement that was then established is an important foundation of future religious policy. At the same time, it is true that Norwegian society is an open democracy that is not linked to a particular belief, but it is equally true that in the Norwegian Constitution today we have a clear value anchoring. As it says: «The basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage.» The right to believe is one of our most fundamental human rights. Respect for freedom of faith means that we have to endure the fact that religious and life-viewing societies have a set of values and a teaching that goes against the flow. It's important. Faith and vision of life are personal choices – yes, it is – but it is not in the way that we should at the same time relate to our tradition and our 1,000-year cultural history. There's no difference here. It is a very central value in a society that we have freedom of faith, that we have the freedom that each one can also practice his faith both in everyday life and in celebrations. That's exactly why, and that's exactly why religion is going to have a place in the Constitution, and that's exactly why we're going to have a foundation in our historical and cultural heritage, which has been inherited for centuries in our nation. Let me put it this way: the state must ensure freedom of belief, support must continue to be given to the Norwegian Church and other religious and life-view societies, it must be facilitated so that faith-based activities can really make a social effort in society, and we must contribute to knowledge of religion and Christian cultural heritage through schoolwork, teacher training and faith training in the religious communities themselves. In particular, we should defend a free and democratic society. With the certainty of these values and with an active religious policy, it goes without saying that central values, such as our Christian humanist heritage, are reflected in the Constitution by the provisions that are there. The Constitutional Value Paragraph states that Norway will remain a Christian country. It is stated in the Constitution that the State is based on the Christian heritage. According to the 2008 state/church agreement, the legislative changes adopted at that time will also ensure that the Norwegian Church is governed by women and men elected by the members of the Church, not by the State. It's about freedom of faith and democracy. The Christian People's Party was also pleased that His Majesty the King personally engaged when extensive changes were discussed. That means a lot. It was a saying that all the parties on Stortinget rejected the claims from among others. Human-Ethical Association to Remove Christianity from the Constitution. While the pressure to vanquish the Constitution persists at this point, the Christian People's Party stands firm in its view, we do not fold on this. That is why I am pleased that the proposals are not adopted in this round, but with values under pressure, and with some parties' desire to clear the Basic Law for bonds of faith and church, we must be on guard also in the future. Even though the majority are still in line with the Christian People's Party's view on this matter, we know the counter-crimes. We know those who attack what smells like Christian life. We notice that, and it notices people, but today there is reason to be happy and grateful. We can be proud that we still have a constitution that reflects precisely the fact that Christianity is the embodiment of our human vision and values. It characterizes our laws and our history -- yes, our whole culture. The Christian People's Party is voting against the proposals and supporting the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e214	A modern state should have a constitution that ensures the equal and fair treatment of all its inhabitants, regardless of belief or outlook on life. The time has come for the Norwegian Church to be recognised and fully treated as a religious society with rights and obligations in line with other religious and life-view societies. I want a state that doesn't interfere with what people should believe. The State should have a neutral role in terms of belief and outlook on life. The state-church agreement was important, and we have come forward with this agreement, but we are not finished. The UN Committee on Human Rights criticises Norway. The Committee states that Sections 2, 4 and 16 may affect the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. Paragraph 2 states that the Constitution must guarantee human rights, but the same point first says that the basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. Our proposal for Section 2 is: «This Constitution must ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights.» It should be our value paragraph. Now we can choose to support the opinion of the UN Human Rights Committee and support what is stated in the Constitution that we should safeguard human rights. If we follow it – if we are to secure human rights, as stated in the Constitution – we need to change this paragraph. According to § 4, the king must always confess to evangelical Lutheran religion. I am a freedom socialist, and I do not understand that the Storting can, and should, impose on others what they must believe or not believe. SV works for freedom of thought and freedom of religion. We support human rights. No law in our country should oblige people to believe or not believe. According to § 16, the Church is to be supported by the State. The Constitution does not have a separate paragraph for religious practice. SV suggests that Section 16 be the first separate paragraph for religious practice in Norway. I refer to a poll that shows that three out of ten North people believe in God. The Constitution should be for all, including the majority who do not believe in God or other gods. SV proposes to amend sections 9 and 44 on ed. We suggest that the oath of the royal family is that they should reign in balance with our constitution and our laws. SV wants a constitution that equates everyone – those who believe in God, those who believe in different gods, and those who don't believe in God. SV will have full freedom of religion and follow the advice of the UN Committee on Human Rights. I'm addressing SV's suggestions. We will support the proposal of the Left in a secondary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e233	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e238	In a liberal society, freedom to believe in one's will is absolutely fundamental. Of course, tolerance and respect for other people's choices and opinions in the area of threats and life's views are. The State should neither discriminate nor favour the view of life. Left went to the selection to complete the distinction between state and church by removing remaining referrals to specific churches and faiths in Constitutional Law. The size took a first step in the right direction to abolish the state church arrangement in the state-church settlement. By disconnecting some of the ties between the state and the church, the Storting went towards the side of the Evangelical Lutheran Church with other religions and life views in Norway. For the left, it's basically right. Despite the steps taken to separate the state and the church, it is still fundamental that the church is a popular church, that it should be financed by public funds, and that the king's obligation to recognize it is by law. In a society where religions are to be equalized, this should be removed. With the proposal we are debating today, we want to remove the remaining ties between the state and the church. A secular state can and must pursue a holistic and active threat and life-view policy, with respect for the peculiarity of the different life-view societies and with funding mechanisms that take care of the principle of non-discrimination. For this reason, the Left proposes to repeal Section 4 and amend Section 16 so that he says: ‘All the inhabitants of the kingdom have free religious practice. All risk and life-view societies shall be level-lined.’» Church and other belief and life-view societies are important social institutions, and religious expressions have a natural place in social debates and public spaces. In a liberal society, the way of life for each one is a personal matter. In the name of tolerance, the state and other public institutions should be impartial and not relate to a particular religion. It is from this basic point of view that the proposers find a distinction between state and church in principle. The left will always defend freedom and the right people have to believe and not to believe. Finally, I would like to put forward a proposal No. Two, from the left. I would also like to signal that we support proposal No. 1, from SV, which has the same intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e258	The representative of Terje Breivik has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e277	In the absence of the rapporteur, it will be a pleasure for me to present a completely unanimous opinion from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The proposal is, as the President said, promoted by Martin Kolberg and is about the transfer of Section 33 of the Basic Law, which deals with the Bank of Norway. Today it stands between § 32, on the decisions of the government in the king's name under the King's absence, and § 34, on the titles of heirs. It's not the most natural place. On the other hand, the proposer believes that it should be included under F, i.e. general provisions, and therefore proposes that Section 33 be repealed, and that the same text be new to Section 120(a). It is a unanimous committee which recommends that it be approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e284	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e301	As in the previous case, the case rapporteur is not present, and I am delighted to present another unanimous opinion from the Committee, which also means a mere transfer of the existing legal text. As regards the use of military power to the inhabitants, the paragraphs, i.e. Sections 25 and 26, dealing with the use of military power, are moved to the paragraphs, i.e. those relating to the lifting of the current location, § 101, third paragraph, and there will be a new fourth paragraph of Section 25 with the same wording. This setting is also unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e308	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e325	The basic bill that we now have to deal with is to base the promise that Norway should have its own unit of money, or that the Norwegian unit of money should be a dollar, and that a dollar is 100 cents. The proposal is made by Per Olaf Lundteigen, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Helge Thorheim and Kjersti Toppe. This is a proposal that was also handled in the Storting in the previous period, and which was not accepted at the time. So it's going to be 157 to 9 voices. So the proposal is based on the law that the crown is the Norwegian unit of money. The proposers show in their explanatory memorandum that they consider it fundamental for a sovereign state to have the right to own money and coins, and that they want a constitutional protection by entering the crown and ear as a monetary unit in the Constitution. So they think it's fundamental for a sovereign state to have the right to have its own coin and money base. As case spokesman for the case, I do not disagree that this is important, on the contrary, but the majority of the committee – all the non-participants of the Centre, SV and independent representative Ulf Leirstein – is of the opinion that today the state has full autonomy over the monetary and monetary system, and this majority believe that a fundamental law will not help to strengthen this right of self-determination. Noregs Bank was grounded as a country’s central bank on 24 May 2016, then with 158 voices for, against Left’s 8 voices. The current amendment would not give us greater scope or would protect us from being less able to lead the fiscal policy that has been our country's recipe for success over many decades, simply to be able to use economic policy as an adjustment both for unemployment and for the good distribution of opportunities. The majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs refers to the management by the Storting of a corresponding proposal in the previous period, which, at the time, stressed that economic conditions could exist which would allow for the accumulation, government and Norway Bank to act quickly to safeguard their national interests. The majority of today's Committee share this assessment. A base law such as this is proposed can reduce the size of the action space and not least the delay in the required action from the actors concerned. The majority of the Committee therefore share this view and therefore recommends that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e338	Constitutions shall cover all matters of national importance. The November Constitution of 1814 had a mention of the country's own banking, money and coin system. At the 200th anniversary of Norway's Bank, the central bank's report came back into the Constitution, but the money unit is missing. So, just as a case information to the case spokesperson, the proposal that the minority now makes is not, in fact, that we should have dollars and cents, but that we should have a separate unit of money – that is what is in the proposal. It's important to keep it with you. I am pleased that there are several people who will support our proposal. We believe that a free, indivisible and independent kingdom should have a separate monetary unit. Money sovereignty is essential for national action spaces in both monetary and financial policy. The national monetary policy governance provides room for national governance in economic times of crisis. We can all see that these days. Having a separate currency is one of the hallmarks of an independent nation. Especially for a nation with such a distinctive character in the economy that Norway has, it's important that one has a separate monetary unit. By legislating that Norway should have its own monetary unit, together with the governors of the central bank, this would underline that the Norwegian State has full autonomy over the monetary and monetary system and can use it for national governance in economic crises. This should be confirmed in the Constitution. I know that the other proposers will elaborate on this. I take up the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e349	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has taken up the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e354	This proposal, promoted by the Centre Party, is therefore about a desire to preserve the Norwegian krona, or the Norwegian monetary unit. As can be read from outside, in which SV does not disagree, this must also be read into an EU context. It can be understood that the proposaler believes that legislating the money unit provides better protection against, for example, the crown. a political pressure in the future to include the krona in the euro. That probably has to be the understanding of why this is coming up now. It agrees with SV – we believe that there can be a basis for a fundamental law-making process based on such a political understanding. But that doesn't mean that a foundation law of the money unit is always high in stone. We are discussing the Constitution now, and the Constitution is, in a way, constantly under dynamic change. There may be a hypothetical scenario where, for example, the Norwegian krona. is shaky, the country's economy is totally ruined, nobody wants to use the Norwegian krona – a completely new economic situation where Norway's population actually wants to join the EU, and also wants and believes that inclusion in the euro will provide better protection for our economy. Such a situation may arise hypothetically, and then the Constitution may also be amended, precisely in order to meet the requirement that the people then might have. So, as we understand this proposal, this is not an attempt to legislate that Norway should never enter the EU, nor to legislate that Norway should never be able to join the euro. Our position with regard to the EU and the euro is based on today's situation, but as I said, there may be situations in the future where people want things differently. We may first and foremost perceive this proposal as a political signal, which the representative of the Central Party has also mentioned, that having a monetary unit of its own is a characteristic of an independent state, and that monetary sovereignty is a fundamental expression of our freedom. But as I said, this does not prevent us from making the necessary political changes. In the past, it was noted that legislating the money unit is an obstacle to good financial management and monetary policy. We don't see it this way, in the sense that there might be an extreme situation in a few years, and then the Constitution could change in relation to it. The proposal has an a-part and a b-part. So the A part is about legislating our currency. The B-part is also about legislating the name of the monetary unit. There's an SV more critical. There may be a situation where there is a crisis around the Norwegian krona and it may be a necessary political move to change its name, so that we can get into a new economic relationship. It's a rather unlikely scenario, but it's happened before, in other countries, that you actually wanted to change the name of your money unit, precisely because it's created a new economic dynamics. So SV will support the a part, to legislate the money unit, but not support the b part, which is about basic law fixing the name.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e369	This is a proposal for which I am very proud to be a co-rapporteur, because it is a very basic proposal. I was also very pleased that Helge Thorheim, who was then both a representative of the Progress Party and, to be honest, a member of the Progress Party – the situation is different today – was on the proposal. What is at the heart of the proposal is that it is essential for a sovereign state to have the right to have its own money and coins, and the proposal is in favour of institutional protection for the financial controller in the Constitution that Norway should have its own currency. It's Section 4 of the Central Bank Act that tells us what this currency is, and that unit of money is called today. There are too few, both in this room and in society in general, who are aware that a currency of their own is, in my opinion, the most important economic tool for a country to ensure full employment. It's one of those degrees central tools. It has to be legislated, and why does it have to? Yes, today's Prime Minister from the Right has repeatedly argued to replace the Norwegian monetary unit, today called the krona, with the euro. The aim is clear: a desire to lock Norway even closer to the European Union. I would like to say that if Norway had had the euro today, we would not have had the drag aid that we have today through the weak krona value, for Norwegian industry and employment, in order to ensure full employment. It would have been interesting to hear what the Ministry of Finance could tell us about the economic instruments that we need to have put in place today to compensate for the consequences – a falling crown value means that Norwegian industry and employment will have a completely different competitive power. Finland has introduced the euro. The consequence in Finland is that they have had to run such a tough fiscal policy, so tough cuts in the public sector and so brutal interference with employment policies that when a person experiences the consequences of not having his own currency, he is really trembling. But Finland is geopolitical in another situation, so it explains much of what Finland chooses. It is incredibly important to have a debate on these issues, about the currency, and it is important that we then have that debate in the future, even after this discussion. The majority of the Committee – and I am not mistaken that there are representatives of parties and people who aim to bring Norway into the European Union – states in their comments that: «today the State has full autonomy over the monetary and monetary system». Yeah, that's right, we do. And then they go on to say that ‘a fundamental law will not help to strengthen this’. It's de facto error. Obviously, a fundamental law will help to strengthen this maritime right, because a basic law requires a two-thirds majority to abolish it – which is not the basis for today’s law. And then the same majority says: ‘The majority refers to the management by the Stortinget of a corresponding proposal in the previous bigoting session, where the majority indicated that there could be economic conditions that would allow the collapse, government and the Bank of Norway to act quickly to safeguard their national interests and that a fundamental law such as it was proposed at the time,’ – and now it is important – ‘could make the space of action smaller and delayed necessary by the actors concerned.’ What experience do we have to show that this is a situation? Of course, we can find ourselves in a situation where the Norwegian economy is shaken, where it is almost in ruins, as the representative from SV said. But it's precisely in such a situation that there is a need to have a unit of your own, because if you're going to fix it just with low interest rates, high interest rates or financial policy, it means a brutality that at least breaks down the Norwegian welfare state, which the Center Party is working to take care of. Therefore, there is no hold in those arguments, in my opinion. I am pleased that the proposal has been supported this time. The last time it was just the Center Party that supported it, now we've got more. We have not least got with the representative Ulf Leirstein, who has now come to where he might have been for a while, and we are pleased about that. Then we have SV on the team, and it's reassuring. I also expect that we have Red on the team at the vote. This is a matter so obvious, which is so essential, which is so important to proceed forward, because having one's own currency is one of the basic characteristics of a maritime country, of a nation-state that has the tools needed to ensure the most important thing: that people have work, and that people have income from their work – that is, full employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e408	Under the Constitution, the Kingdom of Norway is ‘a free, independent, indivisible and inalienable kingdom’. Having a currency of your own, having a monetary policy of your own, is a very central part of it. It is important that it is established in the Constitution, as it is today stated in the Constitution that we have our own central bank, which is to be independent. It is not only important in fiscal policy that we should have room for action in it, no, it is absolutely essential that we also have an autonomous monetary policy, that we have an independent currency. The freedom of action it gives us as a country – both in times of crisis, which we are in now, but also in a more ordinary situation – is absolutely essential and crucial. One of the reasons why it is important to establish this is that it is not obvious in Norwegian society and in the Norwegian social debate that we should have an independent currency in Norway. We have a Prime Minister in Norway who has previously called for us to become part of the single currency euro. We have a finance minister in Norway who has previously called for Norway to be part of the euro common currency. At the time, when current Minister of Finance Jan Tore Sanner was a financier in the Højre Storingsgruppe, he ordered a consultation report to find out how to adopt the euro in Norway. And that which, among other things, the current Minister of Finance, Jan Tore Sanner, said to NTB in this regard, after the report had arrived, that ‘I believe the benefits are clearly greater than the disadvantages’ of introducing the euro into Norway. Mr Sanner recognised that we would lose room for manoeuvre in the interest rate policy, but that can therefore be compensated through budgetary policy, said Mr Sanner. It would have been very interesting if Minister of Finance Sanner could have been present today and participated in the debate on the Constitutional Bill and explained to Stortinget how one would have compensated today through fiscal policy for not having an independent currency. Minister of Finance Sanner also said another thing at that time. He said that ‘on the plus side, the euro will create predictability for the export industry’. Yes, it is well possible that it would have created more predictability for the export industry, but what kind of predictability would it have been for the export industry? So these were statements that fell back in 2013. What's happened since that time? Well, it's just that the deterioration of the Norwegian krona that has occurred in the years after, through several rounds of crises, has been of great benefit to the export industry. What would have happened to the Norwegian export industry if, in that situation, we had been part of the euro common currency and had not had an independent currency and monetary policy? There would have been a dramatic situation at the top of the demanding challenges facing the Norwegian export-oriented industry. I would like to ask the representatives and the parties who oppose the proposal that the Central Party has put forward – fortunately, there are some other parties behind it: SV and the representative Leirstein – who oppose Norway’s freedom of action to have an independent currency and a autonomous monetary policy enshrined in the Constitution, to say what it would have meant for Norway in the time of crisis. We have seen the experience of other countries that have introduced the euro. In a geographical area as large as the euro area is, some countries have a temporary need to provide gas in economic policy, while others need to put the brakes on. But what happens is that, in reality, it is the big, tone-setting EU countries, it is the central bank, which is in the eyes of Germany, which lays the framework for monetary policy and for the setting of interest rates. Not based on, for example, the initial situation in Ireland, when they entered the euro common currency, and when they needed to reduce the pressure on their economy. Not based on the situation in several southern European countries, among others. Spain, which had high unemployment, well over 20 p.m., and which needed a gas in the economy, and that one could also use monetary policy as an important tool there. No, it was an average, with the look from Germany, that was based on it. In a sense, it is perceived that one size fits nobody, where a variety of economies, which have a very different starting point, are to be pushed into a common framework. It's unwise. On the contrary, it is important that the framework is the national state. That's where we put the framework, through fiscal policy, through the treatment of government budgets, but also by having an autonomous monetary policy and an independent currency. The fact that one has the common framework at national level, within the framework of the nation state, is absolutely crucial to our national sovereignty. I am fully aware that there are a number of federalists in Norway who not only want one to have a single currency in Europe but that it should be used as a break in the next round to have a common fiscal policy in Europe, that one should have a United States of Europe, but that is not a development supported by the Central Party. On the contrary, it is important that we strengthen our national freedom to act in crisis, and then one of the crucial things is that we have an independent central bank, that we have an independent monetary policy, and that we have an independent currency. Therefore, it is important that it is entered in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e427	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e444	The Constitutional Bill we now have to deal with, applies to the change in Constitutional Section 21, second sentence, to take ownership or to give insurance as a condition to be posted as an official. Instead, proponents Michael Tetzschner, Erik Skutle and Torhild Aarbergsbotten propose that the duty of obedience and threat to officials is directly imposed on Grundlova. Today's constitution requires that officials, before appointment, either actively take the oath of obedience and threat, or, if they are by law exempt from the obligation to take ownership, provide insurance. Persons who are not Norwegian citizens may by law be exempted from this obligation. There is a difference between owning or insuranceing. By oath, God is called upon to confirm that a statement is correct. Insurance means giving a statement of obedience and threat to the institution and to the King. In practice, officials own or provide insurance by signing a issued form, for which the Prime Minister's office has administrative responsibility. The requirement to take ownership or to provide insurance is based on a requirement that officials have a constitutional obligation to obey and threaten. The obligation laid down in the second sentence of Section 21 of the Constitution hardly goes much further than the duty of loyalty on the part of non-statutory officials. The majority of the Committee, all the non-participating members of the Progress Party, the Centre and independent representative Ulf Leirstein, agree with the proposers that today's surrender of ownership no longer serves any practical purpose, and may be replaced by the conditions under which the person holding an office is to give assurance of obedience and threat. The majority of the Committee shares the view of the proposers that it would be right to amend the Constitution so that the requirement to take ownership is removed, and that the duty of officials to show obedience and threats to the institution is clearly laid down by the law. Those who express the views of the majority would point out that the proposal does not involve material changes in the loyalty obligations of officials, following the second sentence of Paragraph 21 of the Constitution and other non-statutory rules in force. It is also important to stress that the proposal does not contain any exception to the requirement to comply with and to be subject to the threat of non-Norwegian civil servants. The majority in the Committee have considered the two proposals and believe that the requirement of a threat obligation should be addressed by law. The majority therefore advocates the adoption of option 2 so that the second sentence of Section 21 is replaced by the following: ‘These have a duty of obedience and fidelity to the Constitution and the King. They have the duty to be obedient and faithful to the Constitution and the King. the third sentence of paragraph 21 in new Norwegian is deleted; The current fourth sentence in New Norwegian becomes the third sentence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e472	I want to start by pointing out that the Constitution is two very different things in the same document. It's a national clopidogrel, and it's at the same time our highest positive source of justice, with rank over common law. These two functions can occasionally infect one another and affect each other unluckily — in particular the fact that there are regulations that belong to a different time, a different legal tradition. In fact, in time, some provisions that come from a different tradition will be out of date. The reason for this may be that the world of human imagination has changed slowly, but surely. Discipline is an example of a legal institution that has left out of use, having been important in both civil and criminal proceedings. In the field of civil proceedings and criminal proceedings, it was to give a personal guarantee of honour for truthfulness, overseeing a metaphysical instance and calling on a deity, which was given material importance in addition to the symbolic. Declarations in court made on oath had particular weight of evidence. To speak falsely after an oath gave more severe punishment than those who otherwise pronounced falsely and contrary to the truth. In the case of certain types of cases, for example: family matters and the taking of evidence for other courts, emphasis was placed on whether the statements were made on a personal oath. One important reason for taking such anachronisms out of the Constitution, as we have done in civil and criminal law, is that it also weakens its authority in other areas that are vitally important. Let me just mention three keywords: freedom of expression, minority protection and guarantees of legal certainty. If provisions are left unsubstantiated, one could risk that aspects of our governance will be seen as contents-to-content clichés or, to put it another way, aspirations. It should also be taken into account that, since the early 1900s, the EDPS has already been de facto in liquidation, when it was supplemented to provide insurance as an alternative both to those who were freethinkers, who would give up on personal grounds of conscience, not because they intended to lie or had dishonest intentions not to be loyal to the government. There were also religious groups who had strong conventional perceptions that one should not be drawn into Our Lord or God or a deity in such prophetic contexts as when men discuss their own organization. Quakers and Baptists were among these. They were among these consistently, but it was not uncommon to also meet the followers and members of Lutheran-evangelic churches who meant the same, with coatings in the Gospel of Matthew. It was not least for the sake of these men then also opened up to other variants of insurance – variants that at the time encountered resistance because they thought that they could thus avoid the special pressure that an oath to our Lord was, whereas then one could escape with a little more reasonable insurance. They had also made the provision even more tiring and elastic, but at the same time emptied it for this serious content by also making exceptions for people who could claim that they had other citizenship, and that they could get difficulties in their home country with, among other things. their citizenship and their right of origin if they took oaths to another country. It was also the case that the oath was more or less up to the individual, while other legislation laid down the obligations that we want our officials to have. For this reason, it is also possible to agree with the amendments proposed by the proposers, while stressing that the underlying prerequisite for oath and insurance is unchanged, namely the condition that officials have, and must have, a constitutional obligation of obedience and fidelity. That obligation does not change, nor is it affected by whether anyone has given an oath or a personal statement or has renounced it at all. That's the reality we're now bringing the text of the Basic Law into line with. So without reference to the position itself, I can just say that the Control and Constitutional Committee has agreed on an option 2, which is an excellent legislative solution to the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e489	In the struggle for independence, the congregations around the country had to take an oath to stand behind the Norwegian struggle for independence before they could choose the electorate, the voters who would again elect representatives for the National Assembly at Eidsvoll. There are not so many situations left in society where you have to take an oath. One of the few applies to the Constitution § 9, where the King or Queen must take an oath to the Grand Duchy in connection with the enthronement as King or Queen. Another applies by appointment as officials under the Basic Law § 21. When the Progress Party is not now going to support the proposal to abolish dismissal, it is in order to underline the special responsibility associated with holding the highest positions in the State, both civil and military. By maintaining today's wording, there is no doubt about this meaning. Changes to the Constitution must be particularly well justified, and we must be careful to make changes that may weaken the importance of the Constitution. That's why it's important, as the Progress Party sees it, to keep the legal text of the day. The Progress Party will therefore oppose the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e500	Having the highest level of employment in the country is to be responsible for managing important tasks on behalf of the community. As an official, a seven-year-old has a duty to live up to. It is legality, truth, loyalty, expertise, party political neutrality and objectivity, openness and good governance and leadership. An official of the State commits the individual to comply with these requirements in his/her daily work. To date, there are requirements in the Constitution for officials to make a solemn title to the Constitution and the King when they enter the position. We're about to go into a weekend where we're going to celebrate May 17th without being able to arrange the baby and the way we're used to it. Then we know how important the traditions we have to bond and express important values are. Similarly, the oath of an official and wife is a good tradition that shows the seriousness of the duties that the official is supposed to manage, and that responsibility is anchored in the requirements and values of the Constitution. I think this tradition is good and I have to keep going. So we're going to go against this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e509	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e526	Once again I take the floor first because the rapporteur is absent. This applies, as the President said, to draft constitutions promoted by Michael Tetzschner, Erik Skutle and Per Olaf Lundtigen, on the amendment of § 89, i.e. judicial control of laws. Let me first say a little bit about the proposal. The proposers write that the proposal to amend the text does not aim at reversing the Storting's intention to make the system of judicial control appear in the text of the Constitution. Furthermore, in accordance with the objective of legislating the established system, the proposal does not seek to change the substance of the provision. It's necessary to underline it. The rationale is ‘to improve the consistency of the wording of the paragraph with its intended content’. While a desire to improve the consistency between wording and actual content is in itself sufficient to justify the draft constitution, it is also clear that legal control in Norway should be a concrete control rather than an abstract control. It is in line with the practice we have today, but it becomes clearer and underlined. The last element there is reason to mention is the clarification that the control applies not only to the authorities of the State but to all those exercising public authority on the basis of law. Everything should be uncontroversial when it comes to it. When considering the matter, the Committee has emphasised the exact same thing. There is a single committee which points out that there is broad support for the fact that the text of the Constitution can be read as far as possible by all in such a way that it best reflects the central content of the Constitution. The Committee also stresses that the aim is not to ‘change the substance of the provision’ but to change the wording of the Basic Law to better match the intended content of the opinion. It's necessary to underline it. The majority of the Committee emphasises the same understanding of the nuance between concrete control and abstract control and also the importance of the law for all those exercising powers based on Norwegian law. In particular, in the course of the discussion we have had in the Committee on Control, there have been some recordings – from the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights, from Professor Eivind Smith and from others who have wanted to make representations to the Committee. The first two are included as attachments in the setting. In this respect, the minority raises questions about a change in Section 89, which may lead to a new interpretation of a number of other paragraphs of the Constitution. It is referred to Sections 92, 93, 95, 100, 102, 104, 108, 109, 110 and 112. Let me stress that when the proposal is not intended to change the actual legal state with regard to § 89, it is of course – I think I can say it on behalf of the whole of Stortingen, at least on behalf of the majority who are behind the vote – that it is not intended to change the interpretation of the other paragraphs. It should be unnecessary to say, but I stress it anyway. Of course, the meaning of the other paragraphs does not change. As I said, there have been a number of contributions to the Committee, and a number of issues have been raised. So the fact that the Basic Law should have a new content of opinion, we can cancel out both with regard to the paragraph in question and with regard to other paragraphs. But then someone said, when we don't change the meaning of the Constitution, is it necessary to change the paragraph? I think that's a good question. But our common perception – my view, and I think the majority, who insist that the proposal be accepted – is that it is important that the Constitution also gives the right impression to those who read it, not only in the legal environments but also to the citizens of Norway. What we are doing is the same as we did when we decided in the Grand Duchy in 2007 that parliamentarianism should be included in the Constitution. It had existed since 1884, and everyone agreed that it was constitutional custom, but nevertheless it's okay that the Constitution reflects the actual situation. I believe that the rapporteurs and the majority of the committee, who therefore recommend a vote of approval, have just that view of this paragraph. When I refer to it in detail, it is because in the last enquiry by the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights, they say: ‘If the Storting should nevertheless choose to proceed with the proposal, it should be clarified that the constitutional attachment is not intended to change the legal status resulting from constitutional customary law.’ It is therefore underlined – as it is in the explanatory statement of the rapporteurs and as it is in the committee’s position – that it is now also from the spokesperson of the Stortinge. One of the last recordings we've received is from the Norwegian Department of the International Commission of Legal Affairs. They are to the extent that there may not be such a big change in practice, and ask questions about the need for it, but they finally say in their letter to us: ‘If the Storting considers that it is justified to ensure that the legality check is part of the obligation to test in accordance with Section 89 of the Basic Law, ICJ Norway considers that alternative H is clearly the best option.’ That is the option we point to and recommend that be adopted – as we have said because we are concerned that the Constitution should give a correct picture of the actual legal situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e564	Once again, I would like to give unreserved support to the head of the Committee, as a representative of the position of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, which is very informative. I would also like to say that for those who have tried to problemate how these texts are interpreted, it is enough to remind you that in the application of law, one will be able to read what was said, and what has been motivating to the majority here in the Chamber, in our constitutional tradition, which is based on rather hardly expressed principles. It is part of the overall picture of legal sources, as is also the attitude of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, as part of the motivational text. What's a little bit interesting in this context, and which is also of fundamental importance for the Storing, is the view of the tasks of the Supreme Court, which we're actually in here. The Supreme Court has three main tasks in our constitution: They must provide justice in the country, i.e. that they have the final word if it appears that different practices may develop from those notified, underlying courts. They have the last word because they are the supreme dooming power in this pyramid. Then they run legal clearances. The Supreme Court settles questions that perhaps the legislators did not think about when they wrote the laws. Then they also use legal method, but that's within the order they got from Stortinget. Sometimes the Storting has also said in some cases that the closer importance of legal standards, unfairness and other things we leave to the case law to find a way in. Sometimes, and that's not uncommon, this is an order from Stortinget. So there's both an interpretation and an extension. What is desired now, and which we have been doing for a while, is that the text of the Basic Law contains as much realistic a description as possible of both rights and obligations and what state powers are doing. Then it was that § 89 with the current wording was, I should say, a little loose at the edge. That is, exposed to someone who confesses to a dynamic text interpretation, i.e. something detached from Storting's orders or assumptions, they will be able to argue that in the wording they will try to legislate as such, i.e. the whole law, while our tradition, which we have had as a custom, not written into the Constitution, has been that the court, and finally the Supreme Court, have ruled on the matters that have arisen to them as a result of disputes and where they have settled it on a concrete basis. So it's the law enforcement against the Constitution that's been at the heart of the Constitutional Trial that Supreme Court has been running for nearly 200 years, and that's what the Storting didn't want to change. That's why we have to have a phrase that's not slacker at the edge, and that's not without the Storting discussing it, shifts the power relationship and the functional relationship between the three state powers. If the Storting wants it, it requires a greater reflection and a greater debate. It is therefore important that with this adjustment, as the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs proposes today, we get back the text to what was intended, namely to enter into the Constitution what the lawyers had said was constitutional customary. So, of course, the whole exercise of writing as much as possible into the law now that we don't leave to legal theory to define such an important side of state law based on what one finds to be part of the customary basis for the Storting. We would rather be able to read it in the Constitution today. That's what the problem is, and unfortunately it didn't pass quite well during the first try. That's what you basically fix today. It also means that we maintain whether the outcome of the specific court ruling, which is measured against the Basic Law, is incompatible or not with the principles of the Basic Law. It is not a general competence to invalidate the laws adopted by the Storting. We know other institutions where it's part of the constitutional mission. In some places, there is also a second chamber in the National Assembly through which a law is to be passed. But it is far from our legal tradition to leave to the Supreme Court to put laws out of action. So also for these fundamental reasons, we should definitely now adjust the wording back to what was intentional, so that an unfortunate wording does not form the basis for a right that the Storting did not want to give to the courts. So I'm going to end with another sentence, where you say you want control of the administration. It is that we want the administration to be directly informed of the need to respect the law. It shall be governed by Norwegian law. You can also read our principle of legality in that context. I refer to the Basic Law chapter on human rights, § 113. I also believe that the provision that has been tried to problematize is far better than today's wording, and would also be a quality gain, if that is the case where the Storting joins the Committee of Inquiry by a constitutional majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e585	The reason for amending the Basic Law on judicial review is to make the wording of the paragraph more consistent with the intended content of the opinion. According to the proposers, the proposal does not seek to change the substance of the provision. The Party agrees that the text of the Basic Law should be read as far as possible by all in such a way as to give the best possible expression of the essential content of the Basic Law. That was one of the main reasons why the Progress Party voted to change the language of the Constitution to the 200th anniversary of 2014. In principle, the undersigned was prepared to support the proposal, but, as a result of the examination, the Committee received a letter from NIM, the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights, pointing to some possible actual changes that were not highlighted by the proposers, as well as new ambiguities that could arise as a result of the proposed text. There have also been other enquiries on this matter, including: by Professor Eivind Smith. It will include, among others: noting that the proposal extends the right of review of the Court of Justice to include a general review of the legality of the administrative decision. If the proposal is understood in this way, the Constitution will then establish something different and more than what is covered by the right of appeal today. Maybe it's taking a little too much Möller's Tran, but we can get American states, where the U.S. courts have a lot of power and can try out Congress in almost every case. This also applies in e.g. The issue of abortion, where it is, in fact, the Supreme Court that decides the case, since it is those who have the last word on that question. It may not happen right here at home, but it may happen once in the future, if the Supreme Court gains more power over time. And if the courts are to try all sides of a case, the appointment of Supreme Court judges is as important in Norway in the future as it is in the United States today. If the proposal goes through today, which it may look like it does, both magnification and government will give away considerable power and authority, since the courts can review all aspects of administrative decisions. For example, it will be the Supreme Court that will then decide what is the actual target of the wolf cause, where it will be allowed to run snowmobiles in the field, or where the edge of the ice is actually going. The problem with giving the courts such power and authority is that they are not responsible for their actions in the same way as political elected, because they cannot be dismissed, but are sitting until they choose to go off or retire. They cannot be held accountable if they go against the general opinion of the citizens. Political elections are held responsible at least every four years – or every two years, if one includes the municipal and county elections. It may have been to put it a little to the fore, but the recordings made during this treatment show, however, that there is a lot of uncertainty about the consequences of this legislative change. That is why the Progress Party has come to the conclusion that we are not going to support the proposal, because it can lead to changes that are not sufficiently illuminated and that can also create new uncertainties. We would rather have imagined that this was first investigated and clarified in connection with a new proposal, which could then be considered for the next majority period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e606	First, I want to thank the case manager for a good job and the leader for a good and thorough review of the case. I thought he met well at what he said. Here we find a final wording in the Constitution to mention a 100-year-old tradition of judicial control in the Supreme Court. The purpose of this control is to ensure that the Constitution is passed on to other laws in the administration and in the execution of the sentence. The proposal for a Constitutional Law provides a clearer explanation of what the court is and what it is not. The formula specifies that this is a check of the way the laws are applied in specific cases, and not a check of the laws themselves. At the same time, we put in the wording that judicial review not only implies that the legislative and executive authority follows the Constitution, but also that the administration stays within the limits of the ordinary law. This review of legality is an important part of the legal practice of judicial review, which is now given its place in the Constitution. The size determines how the legal practice is to be incorporated into the law. Democracy needs the Constitution to be written so that it can be read and understood by all. The formulation of the majority in the Committee is agreed, making judicial review available to all. At the same time, the wording clearly limits legal developments from one direction to administrative courts, where the judiciary can act as a legislator. Lawmakers are the Stortinget, the People's Election and the Democratic. That's still the way it should be. I'm going to bounce a little over the article from the Progress Party. I think, on the contrary, that this is going to be a part of this, and it's going to be a direction like this. So how the Progress Party has been able to read into this case that this is going to do the opposite is incomprehensible to me. It's the opposite of securing a custom and securing a way where it's the people elected to rule the laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e619	The constitutions should not be easy to make changes, and in the hall there are probably different opinions as to whether to be a Constitutional Conservative, in the sense that one should not make big changes, or whether to be a Constitutional Progressive. I don't think this case falls between any of the chairs, and I'm going to come up with it. Our Constitution is a child of our time. A nice point with the information period is that it is based largely on ideas such as: natural law. Because of human nature, how the world works, etc., we have by virtue of being born only a series of basic dishes – simply by being a part of nature. The constitution is not founded in any God, who one before the dawn often had as a central part of the foundation for constitutions, but a foundation they founded in nature. That's the big step with John Locke and the law of nature, etc., on which our Constitution is based. The Foundation is an expression for a series of privileges we have. The test entitlement is central here. It is not a right court. It must never be confused – it is a right president, me and every citizen of society have to try whether decisions or laws in a concrete case conflict with the Constitution. We have a right to try this out before the courts, and they have an obligation to check whether it's right or not – that's the way it is. I must honestly admit that I do not see what is the reason why we are dealing with this proposal, because there is nothing that is unclear. It is not that we in today's constitution have created an opening for an abstract control of laws in particular – by whole laws. It was quite emphatically said in the 2015 treatment that this is based on custom, one does not have a constitutional court in this country. Still, there is a reason to make corrections. What happens then is that one creates new ambiguities, and I believe the representative Nils T. Bjørke takes a little bit of the wording that is chosen here. On the one hand, it says no changes should be made. On the other hand, a change is made and that is to introduce the «State authorities», decisions taken by the «State authorities». The term ‘state’ can be perceived differently in different parts of the Constitution, which we have done well in the comments of SV, the Progress Party and the independent representative. What is the state? Is the State the Central State? Is that the local state? Because these are the names in different ways, it doesn't make any sense. This brings in a lack of clarity because one takes management control – control of administration, not only the laws, but also decisions and decisions that are made around – and then it's unclear which state a person is talking about. In the Basic Law section, to create more clarity, an extra blur will be added to this section. That's what we're warning against. At the same time, I believe that what has been said from the pulpit, which is part of the process of this adjustment, is also not to be misunderstood. There's no big deal here. I understand that everyone is a part of that with the «state» meaning a public in itself – both municipalities, states, etc. It's not limited to the central state we often mention it as, in this perpetrator. But since one should not take too easy to change the Basic Law, I would point out that it is not wise to adopt something that will create ambiguities. The custom today is not to misunderstand, the size of 2015 is not to be misunderstood, nor is it the intentions in the hall here today, but the wording one has chosen is to misunderstand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e642	Thank you very much to the case spokesperson from me for coming from work on this matter. When the Stortinge assesses changes in the Constitution, it is naturally something that approaches us humbly and with caution – even linguistic changes. We have followed the public debate on the change of § 89 with great interest, and have received many good, thoughtful, well-founded recordings right into the finish line – recordings that argue both for change and against change. When the Left chose to stand behind the plural comments and the recommendation, it is because we support the intention of the proposers to clarify the wording of the rule – to clarify the Basic Law, to bring it into line with the actual content, without changing the content of this paragraph or others, or to create uncertainty about its follow-up. The question in this case is whether or not the multiple recommendation does so. I should be so honest from this pulpit to admit that we in the Left are 'on the double mind' and have yet to allow the doubt to benefit from the current wording. The left hand side will therefore be invoking the plural recommendation today. Call the spring weight that was finally decisive – is the doubt that has been raised from the leading legal environment and lawyers that a change in § 89 can help to create confusion about the content of other trademarks in the Constitution, this should have been better discussed and settled before we possibly change the text of § 89. However, I would like to stress, as several speakers have done before me, that the amendment to the Bill adopted today should not lead to changes in current case-law. And everything in the proposal points out to the proposers that the intention is not to change their factual content, but the wording, so that he better matches the intentional content of the meaning. The majority also argue that courts should not exercise abstract control following this change. The majority also want the content of the decision to apply not only to judicial control with respect for the government and the administration of the Constitution, but also to include the binding of the administration to the law, the legality control. This means that judicial review shall not only apply to decisions of the State’s governmental powers, but to all decisions taken in the exercise of public governance. It is all right, but the courts also have other tasks that are not stated in Section 89, and those who have claimed that it was never meant that § 89 would regulate or see the courts' legality control of the administration, are probably right in that. There is no defect in today's constitution that this objective is not reflected in the wording of Section 89. The amendment proposes to replace the term ‘government powers’ by ‘public authorities’. The aim is to make clear that judicial control applies to the exercise of all public powers — including municipalities and private organisations exercising public power by law. Here, the proposers will amend Section 89 to address a problem that several lawyers believe is not in practice, which is also one of the recordings that have been decisive for us to vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e661	I agree with what Mr Andersen of the Workers' Party said in his thorough and very precise contributions. As co-rapporteur, I would like to stress that the proposed amendment to the text of Section 89 does not seek to rock the Stortinge's willingness to allow the system of judicial control to be expressed in the text of the Constitution, but the aim is to improve the wording of the paragraph in accordance with its intended content. It is interesting to read that a single committee – and I stress: a single committee – agrees that today's wording in the law enforcement provision does not fully match the actual content. So there's an overall committee that says it doesn't fully match, and then the logical consequence should be that one takes the consequences of it and is involved in a change. A number of proposals for amendments have been submitted which seek in various ways to capture the reality on which an overall committee clearly demonstrates that there is a need to change. I'm not going to have any long posts, I just want to point out the reasons for the Constitutional Amendment through two main points that have as their point of departure. Point one: The Court of Justice, ultimately the Supreme Court, must have the opportunity to assess how the law is applied, but not to review the law itself, as individual constitutional courts in other countries can do, and – I would also say – such individual legal environments in Norway also work purposefully to ensure that we have tradition in Norway. But this development that the legal environments are working for does not have the support of the Storting and will not allow this clarification to continue. It's very important. So the first key point is that the Constitutional Bill will clarify that it is not the law that is the subject of the Court's scrutiny, as today's wording might indicate. On the other hand, the draft Constitutional Amendment achieves better consistency between the wording of the Constitutional Paragraph and the actual intended content of the sentence. The second main point is that, through the Constitution, we need to ensure that the Court of Justice can verify that the administration remains within the limits of the law, i.e. legality control. This is a constitutional customary practice today, and the convention is, after the Constitutional proposal, clarified in the Constitutional Law. It must be a step forward in order for us to have an up-to-date and more unambiguous constitution. On this basis, the Centre Party supports the amendment to § 89 on judicial review, etc. and then support Option H, which best meets the clarifications that I have now mentioned. Otherwise, I have to make a small comment to the representative Solvency Horne of the Progress Party, because what was the representative's pervasive argument was that one went against the proposal because it facilitated a development such as one has in the United States, namely that the courts could then try out the will of the Storting. That is a fundamental misunderstanding. It's a fundamental misunderstanding, because if you think it's a saying in the argument, one must vote for the change, because that's exactly what we're going to get. So, unfortunately, there's no connection between what was the argument and the conclusion in the post of the representative Solvency Horne of the Progress Party. To be a little more than a message, I would like to say that perhaps the Progress Party should take a short meeting before the vote in order to clarify what is an obvious misunderstanding – this said in the best sense. To the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, who says that new ambiguities are being created: I did not get a grip on what was the ambiguity. The whole point was and is to prepare, just to clarify, to remove ambiguities. No arguments have been put forward to show how that proposal creates more ambiguities. That's what's at the heart of it all. When the representative from the Left says that there are several legal environments that have different opinions about it, it's not surprising, but what's common denominator for a lot of criticism of the proposal that the Central Party and others now support is that the critical ones come from an environment where people have more or less direct roles in that environment, and that's what we have to include in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e684	My party colleague and co-rapporteur Michael Tetzschner have had a good and thorough report on the matter, but I still feel the need to clarify something and comment on something. I think the chairman of the committee, Dag Terje Andersen, had a very thorough and good review, which also takes care of the views we have on the matter in the Right. I would also like to say that the case rapporteur in this matter has done a great deal to check out all sorts of concerns and shared them with others in the committee. I appreciate that, and it has been important when it is that the legal environments begin to engage in debates. After these years in the Control and Constitutional Committee, I hardly think I've seen any clear feedback from the legal environments. But it is a bit in the nature of the matter that there are assessments and legal considerations that go different ways, and then we have to weigh them up against each other. What is important to clarify is what the proposers say, and as the Committee says, there is no new meaning in the change we are now making. It's not a changed legal state. We're going to establish what's going on, and we're going to do that with the background that we want to be able to read what's going on in this paragraph. To those who problematize other paragraphs, it's just to emphasize what the committee chairman said, that we're dealing with this paragraph, and if anyone thinks there should be changes in other paragraphs, yes, they're going to promote it in the usual way, but that's this paragraph we're taking a stand on, and that's what we're clarifying through the work we've done. Someone has come to me and said that it is strange that NIM has not been heard. Yes, they've been heard. We've asked them, we've received the answer, and also their answer we've asked for proper legal considerations – so a little rare thorough treatment of a hearing response, I have to say it's been here. And it is established that as the proposal is formulated and justified, and as the Committee justifies it, those concerns are relevant to raise, but answered in the position of the majority in the case. It is also important to note that from the legal environments that have been asked, there is one clear feedback. It was a matter of many alternative wordings we got on the table, and it can be demanding when we, as non-legal lawyers, are going to deal with it. Then it has been good to see that there has been an overall feedback, also from the Norwegian department of the International Commission of Legal Affairs, which says that yes, maybe it was not necessary to change, but if it is to change, then option H is definitely the best care for what is intention, where we underline the current content of opinion, the current legal state, in a neat and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e695	It was basically the representative Horne's posts that made me ask for the word again. Because if you listen to her posts, as one might say, crystallizes an ancient conflict, that is, popularism against expert power, or the pervasiveness of the Bigton towards the lawyers, she has definitely signed up under the wrong tabs. The whole rationality of this clarification is that we don't open up any legal developments other than what we want, and the assignment that you've given to the Supreme Court in the past. It is simply that the Supreme Court, which is not to initiate cases itself, takes a position on the issues that come on the table, also takes a position on the constitutional aspects of it – they have the right and the duty to do so – but they do not violate the law, they violate the application of the law. Then it's up to the Storting itself, if they see that there are many things in the same direction, perhaps adjusting their own legislation. That's the core -- it's just not to make this opening, because we see that there are many in our time who think it's excellent to have political influence without getting involved in politics or joining a party or taking part in elections to the Storting, who would like to give their way and have political influence without participating in politics. I believe the Storting should be the first guards – border guards – about their own competence. It is the people's power, also because it rests on a better basis of legitimacy, because it is the people, who then regularly replace this assembly, every four years, and do not sit for life. That's exactly the point of Solvency Horne, and that's why I get extra bored when you don't realize that you've entered a proper battalion, but under the crazy tabs. It was also not true when it came to the presentation of the judicial review of administrative decisions. First of all, they don't go into the free sense, which is a developed doctrine. But what they underline is the principle of legality. So what's really the task here -- and no one else has been so bold about claiming that that's the problem, as it was described -- is just to make sure that you get a clear concept of what is now the state's organs. It is then that even when the state delegates to the municipality, all municipal autonomy is derived from state power. Every administrative decision has not come out because you have a local official who thinks it was a good idea to do it like this or something and impose burdens on people from a job title. No, all the exercise of power, even when it takes place through institutions or municipalities, is based on the legislative activities of this national Parliament and of which the government also has some competence in making regulations. But that's what the court's task is: to make sure that you stick to the guidelines and the legal commitments that Stortinget wanted. If you don't, you can risk that when the Storting expresses the highest state will through laws, we have to make sure that we have legality control that can be traced back to decisions in this room. Otherwise, we do not have an administrative apparatus that is steerable and that we can ensure is governed in accordance with the priorities of the Storting. That's the nucleus. That is why we also get a better wording than the one that was proposed. Finally, I have to say, one can say a lot of positive about Norway's human rights institution, but it is not our leading centre of competence for public administration or public law. It's at the university. On the contrary, I have seen that engaged private lawyers have been used – you take that interest with you 24 hours a day. So you've been using Stortingets -- let's say -- papers and borrowed from Storting's authority to promote their personal taste buds. It has brought confusion into this room, and I am very sorry if that is what it is that the Storting cannot today gather about a majority, which is necessary, to make § 89 even clearer and even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e709	What makes this case special is that it seems that there is complete agreement about the policy, and then there is disagreement about one by adopting or not adopting this does a clarification, or if a just creates added confusion. As I read this, this is a discussion where we have brought Stortinget far into a theoretical debate that goes into the legal environment – which is an important debate, but has no popular basis in Stortinget. That's the discussion that Eivind Smith drew up: if you're about to change the role of the court as a judge, if the court has a more political role, if that's the way we go, etc. But the Stortinget has been clear on this whole way. One does not want to develop a Constitutional Court in this country – it is only to read the 2015 setting and the setting of this case – it is not as the Constitution should be understood that it can bend in that direction. Nevertheless, one believes that this must be clarified, and then comes with this proposal that brings in new ambiguities. Lundteg will ask you what's unclear. The state is unclear, because the state is named and perceived differently in the Constitution. I'm completely in agreement with the idea that the state has to be perceived as everything that the public does, in some sense. This is how state intervention must be understood in this context, but that is not how it is understood elsewhere in the Constitution. Thus, a set of small wedges has a ambiguity in this bag. But we are, as I said, far inside of legal theory, and I can imagine that in the next big picture the Stortinget will come back to § 89 with new clarifications, and then one has it going on – that's how the days go on. But I believe that for Storting this is quite clear and clear. We have some clear customs here, we ring around them, we continue as before. The Supreme Court shall not have a judicial role and shall have a judicial role in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e720	I will not go out the debate, but there were several articles here that were about my post, and that I have signed up under the wrong tabs. Yes, maybe I do, and that's why I believe that this case is actually not as simple as some people can get it to be. Maybe I argued in my statement that these changes would lead to the courts getting more control, and then the other thing is saying the very opposite, that they with it will get less control. There are several environments that say different things here. I'm not a lawyer, but I know Michael Tetzschner as a skilled lawyer and tend to agree with him in a lot of cases. But the main reason why the Progress Party is not supporting this proposal is that we believe that the things that come forward here now are not sufficiently enlightened, and it can also create new uncertainties. I should have liked to have seen that this was better investigated and prepared for the next treatment during the next period. Then it's like we don't have any partisan in the Progress Party on this, so if there are representatives in the Advance Party who have been convinced otherwise, they're free to support this today during voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e729	Changes in the Constitution are demanding, it's difficult, and it's precision. What this debate shows, I think, is that despite the fact that we have a procedure of constitutional changes to facilitate a wide-ranging debate, and a long-term debate, it has developed a tradition in which the constitutional proposals that are being promoted for a period of time, to be considered in the next period, are almost not being discussed. There is no consistency between what was intended for the procedure and what is happening in practice. And then we get into situations like this today, where several representatives clearly show that one has not been able to go down into complexity, into precision on this, and distill this whole thing down to what is the nucleus, what are the main points. The main points are, in my opinion, that we should clarify that the courts and the Supreme Court should ultimately not be constitutional courts. We're not going to have any development in that direction. It is very precise now described by the representative Tetzschner, and I am very pleased that the representative Tetzschner on behalf of the Right now places himself in that tradition. It's in the best Left and Center Party tradition up through time, and the Workers' Party has been operating systematically for exactly the same thing. It's really glittering that the representative Tetzschner has such a precise, ideological and clarifying statement about this. All due respect to the representative Tetzschner! I have never said it so clearly before, but I would like to say so, and would like to welcome it! [[Laughter]] The second point is that the law enforcement, which is now constitutionally customary, we want to include clarifications, so that it becomes clear. I also hear the representative Knag Fylkesnes from SV saying that one agrees that the courts should not have a role as a judiciary – that is, one should not have a constitutional court. We agree. Then we are back to the last clarification, that is, this around the «state». I haven't read so much about the state and the role of the state as Marxists have made up over time, so here the Socialist Left Party has a force, but I thought the Socialist Left Party was clear that the state is in essence, at last, in Norwegian democracy what comes from decisions, decisions and authority from this Chamber. At that point I also fully agree with the representative Tetzschner on what he said. So I don't really understand why we can't get wider support for this proposal when there's such a broad consensus on the facts of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e736	I think it has been a good debate. I think it is nice that they have said nice words about the case rapporteur. I will pass that on to Freddy André Supreme Court, who is the rapporteur of the case, but not present here now. I agree that a thorough job has been done in the process. The representative Horne questioned whether the courts were getting more control or less control. No, they get the control they have, as it is customary for them to have, and the control the Storting has given them by taking the law. That's the whole heart of this case. What I understand is that everyone agrees that if a change in Section 89 is adopted today, it should not mean any change in legal status, but a clarification. I think it is important to find that it actually also has some of those belonging to the minority, clarified as a common understanding of how, if any, those who are to interpret should interpret the decision of the Storting. So I repeat – and I would like to say, as someone has said – that this is a discussion for lawyers. Yes, the Constitution is the people's most important document, and the whole starting point for supporting the case, and that the majority are in favour of the matter, is that the Constitution is actually also available, and that one does not have to enter and read up on the custom, too much, to understand what the Constitution really means. And I'm glad so many people have underlined it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e747	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e766	The store will first vote for the remaining items from Tuesday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e778	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Gisle Meininger Saudland on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 3-8, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 9 and 10, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, the proposals No 11–16, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–16, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to reverse the cuts in disability caused by the government’s unfair conversion model from old to new disability regime as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose to reverse the cuts in children’s allowances as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to be made as soon as possible to correct the purchasing power of many old-age pensioners in recent years.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to reverse the cuts in redundancy payments as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make proposals as soon as possible to reverse the cuts in transitional aid for lone dependants.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a strong increase in housing aid and to enable more people with low income to own their own homes through increased housing support and increased start-up loans.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e841	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of how the various cuts and changes in welfare performance that have been carried out since the accession of the government of Solberg have affected the living conditions of the weakest in society and what consequences this has had for the social inequality in Norway.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e858	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to lift the ceiling on the sum of disability benefits and child allowances corresponding to 99 pst. of pre-incapacity income.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e875	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-8, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make proposals as soon as possible to ensure continued protection against lifestyle adjustment.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that the organisations involved in the social security scheme are given the right to negotiate.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the necessary legislative changes to keep benefits to beneficiaries of redundancy payments until they are actually ready for work or other benefits.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose to reverse the reduction in the minimum benefit for those under 25 years of age in receipt of redundancy benefits.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make proposals as soon as possible to reverse the cuts in spectacle support for children’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to submit proposals as soon as possible to reverse the cut in the car support system for those who need a car in Group 1 in order to break an isolated life and improve the functioning of daily life.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e921	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken by the government, which together will help to eliminate the impact of annual under-regulation of pensions.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e938	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of how the unfair cuts they have carried out have weakened the living conditions of the weakest in society and increased the social inequality in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e962	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e976	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e981	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e986	Then there are 97 representatives who have voted in favour of the Committee's position and 9 representatives who have voted against. – Accordingly, the position of the Committee has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e998	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Kristian Toning Riise on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party proposal No 4, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 5, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 6, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 1 was changed and now reads: ‘The size calls on the Presidency to change the mandate of the sample examining the control functions of the Stortingen so that the sample assesses and proposes the establishment of an NAV agent in line with the observations of the majority of the population in the Innst. [[Harberg Committee]] [[2019-2020]] 254 S There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for the establishment of a Nav Ombudsman according to the model of the Patient and User Ombudsman.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1035	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to investigate the establishment of a Nav ombudsman. The investigation must include the function/mandate of the Ombudsman, the organisation of the national and municipal hubs, the model of the Ombudsman including how the Ombudsman is to work, the location, costs and, where appropriate, in coordination with the patient and user representatives.’; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1054	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the establishment of a Nav ombudsman as soon as possible, including proposals for mandate and organisation.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1073	It's the same thing here. SV has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1078	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1091	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider measures to improve the guidance and follow-up of the individual Nav user.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1101	SV also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1113	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for an amendment to the Social Security Act which suspends the period of notice of the Lawyer in the event of a complaint against the decisions of the Social Security Court against the Civil Ombudsman.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1137	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the Presidency to change the mandate of the sample examining the control functions of the Stortingen so that the sample assesses and proposes the establishment of an NAV agent in line with the observations of the majority of the population in the Innst. [[Harberg Committee]] [[2019-2020]] 254 S
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1192	It is contested in the first paragraph of Section 4. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1206	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1217	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1227	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1239	A total of 36 proposals have been put forward during the debate. There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a model for effective mass vaccination, with an effective logistics for inviting priority vaccination of known risk groups first.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1258	There is a vote on proposal No. 32, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to liquidate the regional health enterprises and to allocate the tasks between a national management unit and individual health enterprises.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1275	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1280	Are there any more problems with voting? Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1292	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking that the outsourcing and operation of critical national ICT services and systems in the health sector be completed and that new contracts cannot be concluded.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1312	President! I pressed the counter button hard, but it lighted up the for-button.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1317	It sounds like a hard problem! Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1331	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26, 27 and 29–31, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure increased use of individual plans in patients who need long-term and coordinated services and to ensure that patients’ statutory rights to coordinator and contact doctors are followed up in healthcare establishments.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that regional health companies do not continue input-driven funding at hospital or department level.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that information related to national security interests is operated and stored in Norway.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and promote legislative proposals to replace the Health Business Act by a new Health Management Act, where the counties can take over the operation of hospitals through the introduction of elected government, local and practical management and employee participation.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to instruct regional health companies to establish local management in all hospitals and major hospital departments, and that the local manager is to be responsible for the entire business with both professional responsibility, financial responsibility and personnel responsibilities.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1371	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to expand the specialist health service offer in Alta with a maternity ward and necessary emergency functions. It has to be assumed that a new hospital will be built in Hammerfest and that hospitals in Finnmark will work together in a network model to provide the whole population with an equivalent quality of health.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1388	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the provision of a permanent ambulance helicopter in the Kirkenes and a jet plane stationed in Tromsø.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1405	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the closure of the Kristiansund maternity ward and to ensure that a full-fledged maternity ward in Kristiansund becomes part of the future hospital structure in Møre and Romsdal.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1423	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government requests follow-up of the request decision 750 [[2017-2018]] The Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1440	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the government through the business meeting and/or management documents to ensure that local management becomes the general rule in Norwegian hospitals.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1457	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 to 20 and points 34, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a comprehensive report on the supply of food and on how best to ensure quality and safe maternity, maternity and maternity care. The notification must address in particular the proximity of food supply, quality and staffing in the maternity ward, the follow-up before and after birth, the funding system for midwives and the transitions between the specialist health service and the community health service.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a new action plan on antibiotic resistance in healthcare, with objectives of reducing the use of antibiotics and improving diagnostic systems. The plan should also provide tools for better disease protection when diseases come from abroad.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to evaluate the statutory cooperation agreements between health enterprises and municipalities and to ensure that the cooperation agreements are reviewed annually in view of the necessary updates and improvements.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the statutory cooperation agreements between health enterprises and municipalities include services for children and young people, people with severe mental and drug problems, vulnerable elderly people and persons with multiple chronic disorders.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with a real psychiatry escalation plan.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive communication on mental health protection.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that health businesses do not plan or implement the closure of daily mental health facilities until the Health Directorate and regional health businesses have provided their analysis of the future needs of the population for mental health services.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to introduce several user-guided beds.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget on a plan for patients sentenced to mandatory mental health protection.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up Decision No. 21 of 15 November 2018 and provide a comprehensive report on the prehospital services and the entire emergency medical chain based on NOU 2015:17 First and foremost.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for regulatory response times for the service, which set out the response times to be applied and the requirements to be set for equipment and professional competence in the service.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the emergency aid scheme to be prepared for development, responsibilities and funding in order to ensure the emergency aid scheme as a complement to, and not a substitute for, existing municipal and state emergency medical services, and to present the investigation to the Storting as its own case.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to define the basic ICT infrastructure of healthcare providers under the requirements of the Safety Act on Protective Information.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking that all health businesses systematically identify the need for health professionals in the coming years and draw up strategic plans for maintaining and recruiting employees.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the use of so-called post doctors in health care establishments and for the assessment of whether such posts should be filled by LIS1 doctors.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is calling on the Government to bring forward a case for the Storting on the organisation, financing and organisation of an increase in the number of places of practice in the municipal health and care sector.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked through the business meeting and/or management documents to ensure that regional health companies move more of the elective surgery in the enterprise from the largest hospitals to the emergency hospitals, where appropriate, in order to strengthen the general surgical competence of these hospitals.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the ISF system.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for the development of alternative models for the organisation of health south-east, with a view to sharing the regional health business.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the financing of specialised rehabilitation and to return appropriately to the Storting.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government requests the promotion of a new national health and hospital plan as soon as the evaluation of the authorities’ management of the coronavirus pandemic has been carried out. The plan must specifically address national health preparedness in both specialist and community health services and describe how healthcare should prevent and strengthen preparedness for serious health crises such as pandemics and drug shortages.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1577	There is a vote on proposal No. 35, from the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to put in place as soon as possible a contingency model for the Norwegian production of important medicinal products, including antibiotics, and to come back to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis.’ The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1594	There is a vote on proposal No. 36, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish public/private cooperation with production environments with a view to increasing the self-sufficiency of health care infectious agents.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1604	SV will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1662	It shall be added to I, II and VI. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1676	It shall be added to III, IV, V, VII and VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1705	Then the Storting went over to vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1717	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:5 [[final abolition of the church system]] The Left and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1743	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:32 [[relationship between country and church]] The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1760	The recommendation I and II thus lapse as a result of voting on minority proposals Nos. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1772	There is a unanimous recommendation from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and, as the President understands, the other party groups not in the Committee have also indicated support for the recommendation. The adoption of amendments to the Constitution by roll call has been a practice of many years and years. However, in today's situation, the President will propose that it be voted in the usual way, i.e. not by name-prop. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1815	This setting is also unanimous, and there is announced support for the nomination of non-committee parties. The President will therefore – as in the previous case – propose that it be voted in the usual way. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1849	During the debate, Nils T. Bjørke put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and independent representative Ulf Leirstein. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:39 [[basic law requiring Norway to have its own currency unit]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1873	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1912	The Progress Party, the Center Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it. The vote will take place on a roll call. The propeller shall start with representative No. 24 for Akershus. Those who vote in favour of the adjustment's recommendation will reply yes. Those who vote against answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1930	The 79 representatives who voted in favour of the vote were: Bente Stein Mathisen, Tuva Moflag, Dinghy, Dinghy, Dinghy, Dinghy, Dinghy, Dinghy, Dinghy, Dinghy, Dinghy, Dinghy, Dinghy, Dinghy, Dinghy, Dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy, dinghy
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1935	The 36 representatives who voted against the vote were: Per Olaf Lundteigen, Jon Engen-Helgheim, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Trygve Battle violence Vedum, Emilie Enger Mehl, Helge André Njåstad, Kjersti Toppe, Toril Selsvold Nyborg, Nils T. Bjørke, Sylvi Listhaug, Geir Inge Lien, Jon Georg Dale, Kjell-Børge Freiberg, Siv Mossleth, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Solveig Horne, Roy Steffensen, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal, Liv Signe Navarsete, Tore Storehaug, Bård Hoksrud, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold, Per-Willy Amundsen, Marit Arnstad, Sivert Bjørnstad, Heidjørls Grävls Grävls, Hörls Görls Görls Görls, Hörls Görls, Hörls Görls Görls, Hörljörljörls, Hörljörls, Hörls, Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl-Hörl
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1940	The following 54 representatives were due: Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Trond Gudgeland, Morten Wold, Arne Nävra, Runar Seestad, Steinar Karlstrøm, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Anne Karin Olli, Tor André Johnsen, Peter Frølich, Jette F. Christensen, Silje Heimdal, Audun Lysbakken, Tom-Christen Nilsen, Liv Kari Eskeland, Ruth Grung, Else-May Norderhus, Marianne Synnes Emblemsvåg, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Steinar Räten, Eirik Sivertsen, Margunn Ebbesen, Willfred Nordlund, Åsunn Lyngedal, Jonny Finstad, Aud Hove, Olemic Thommessen, Tore Hagbakken, Bengt Faste, Jonas Gahr Støre, Heide, Heide Marthinen, Siv Jensen, Kari Elisabian, Kari Elisabe Kajor, Gaud Kårår, Gudge, Gudge, Gudge, Gudge, Gudge, Gräidst, Gräidst, Gräidst, Gräidst, Gräidst, Gräidst, Gräidst, Gräid, Gräidst, Gräd, Gräd, Gräd, Gräidst, Grädjstadst, Grädjst, Grädjst, Grädjst, Instadst, Grädjst, Grädjst, Gåst, Grädj.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1945	The vote will be taken by a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1975	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it. This vote will also take place on roll call. The plug starts with representative No. 79, from Nordland. The ones for the configuration recommendations answer yes. Those who are opposed answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1993	The 79 representatives who voted in favour of the vote were: Siv Mossleth, Richmor Aasrud, Svandjødd, Maria Gjorde, Hegge, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Espen Barth Eide, Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, Camilla Strandskog, Swanung Stensland, Hadia Tajik, Margret Hagerup, Torstein Tvdt Solberg, Aleksander Stuckebø, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Aase Simonsen, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Liv Signe Navarset, Frida Melvær, Terjesland Aassland, Solveig Sundbøsen Abrahamsen, Lene Vågslivar, Åslug Sem-Jacobsen, Kent Gut Gudmundsen, Martin Henriksen, Ingsen, Ingvild Kjerkols, Marild Grande, Elekton, Elekte, Elikon Torve, Maristan, Lijorde
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e1998	The 36 representatives who voted against the vote were: Hanne Dyveke Sweets, Mona Fagerås, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Ketil Kjenseth, Tina Shagufta Munir Kornmo, Bears Moxnes, Une Bastholm, Petter Eide, Ola Elvestuen, Solveig Horne, Roy Steffensen, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal, Solfrid Lerbrückk, Tore Storehaug, Bård Hoksrud, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Per-Willy Amundsen, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Siv Bjørnstad, Lars Haltbrücken, Ulf Leirstein, Björrnen Laabak, Gisle Meininger Saudland, Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Himanshu Gulati, Solveig Schytz, Nicholas Wilkinson, Jon Engen-Helheim, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Karin Andre Njåstadt, Gesle Mein.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e2003	The following 54 representatives were due: Jonny Finstad, Aud Hove, Olemic Thommessen, Tore Hagebakken, Bengt Fasterraune, Jonas Gahr Støre, Marianne Marthinsen, Heidi Nordby Lunde, Siv Jensen, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Mudassar Kapur, Geir Pollestad, Terje Halleland, Ingrid Heggø, Cecilie Myrseth, Sandra Borch, André N. Skelstad, Kirsti Leirtrø, Jon Gunnes, Morten Stordalen, Lene Westgaard-Halle, Carl-Erikstad, Freddy André Övstegård, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius, Ingunn Fos, Torhild Bransdal, Hans Andreas Limi, Turid Kristensen, Nina Sandberg, Kari Kjönnaas Kjos, Trond Helleland, Morten Dandrønder, Morten, Gleden Gledschalden, Gledschalden, Andrjalden, Andalden, Andalden, Andalden, Andalden, Andalden
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e2008	The vote will be taken by a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-14.ana.ud247e2048	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
