ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e81	The representative of Une Bastholm, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. The representative, Mr Solveig Schytz, will put forward a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e91	On behalf of representatives Terje Breivik, Carl-Erik Grimstad and myself, I would like to put forward a draft constitution to establish the independence of the prosecution authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e96	The draft Constitution will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e103	I am pleased to present a proposal by the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Karin Andersen, Torgeirar Knag Fylkesnes, Solfrid Lerbreck and myself on the national production of medicines and medical devices, StatMed. I would also like to make a proposal from Solfrid Lerbreckk, Audun Lysbakken, Torgeirar Knag Fylkesnes, Petter Eide and myself on punishment for the influence on social security abuse. I finally promote a proposal from Solfrid Lerbreck, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Mona Fagerås, Karin Andersen, Freddy André Hövstegård and myself to secure care for parents who have to work less because of reduced opening hours in kindergartens and in the SFO.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e112	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e117	I am promoting a proposal to ensure legal compensation for Norwegian veterans with mental damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e122	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e140	This spring Norway, like the rest of Europe and the world, is experiencing a crisis we haven't seen since World War II. The health and economic challenges are enormous. The situation is changing rapidly and unpredictable, but fortunately, in many countries health services are now better equipped to handle the pandemic than just a few weeks ago. The pandemic has affected European countries at different times and with different intensity, but it has affected everyone. Norway was among the countries that early introduced intervention to reduce the spread of infection. At present, infectious control measures are in place in all EU countries, and several countries are in the process of gradual and cautious reopening. The EU has been criticised for not meeting the crisis when it adopted a more common approach. This criticism, I think, only partially hits. In assessing EU efforts to combat the pandemic, it is important to recall that health policy is essentially a national responsibility in the EU, just as it is in Norway. However, after a short initial phase of lack of information and cross-border coordination, we have gradually seen a more integrated EU with more coordinated actions. This also applies when the Member States themselves take the final decisions, as in the field of infectious diseases. At the same time, the EU has extensive cooperation in public health, and Norway has been an active participant in this through EEA programme cooperation since 1994. However, EU public health cooperation is less binding than the internal market and other areas in which EU institutions have the power to adopt common legislation. In concrete terms, this means that the EU may adopt legally binding decisions for medicinal products and medical devices, which are part of the internal market, but must adhere closely to guidelines and recommendations on infectious diseases. The last two months have clearly shown that no country is able to deal with this crisis on its own. The virus knows no borders. Close coordination and cooperation with our closest European neighbours are important in order to keep infection rates down and manage the situation at home as well. Through active efforts and on the basis of our close relationship with the EU through the EEA and Schengen, we have succeeded in achieving good cooperation and consultation arrangements. The Minister of Health attends weekly health ministers’ meetings in the EU where different aspects of the crisis are discussed. A common European approach is in our interest. We support the EU’s recently submitted roadmap on a common framework to phase out actions. Cooperation between the Swedish Institute for Public Health and the European Agency for Disease Prevention in Stockholm is important in this context. The professional advice of the European Agency for Disease Prevention is important for Norway’s management, together with the advice we receive from the World Health Organisation. Since March, we have also attended regular meetings with EU Ministers for the Interior, and we are participating in the EU's political crisis management mechanism at the ambassador level. These meetings are prepared in many stages and cover several areas of action. They allow Norway to contribute to policy coordination in the EU, where we can learn from each other’s experiences and find solutions to this challenge that can only be addressed jointly. Norway is constantly working to raise the awareness of the EU institutions about the EEA Agreement and the rights it gives us. Nevertheless, in situations where the EU needs to take rapid action, we sometimes see that we can be forgotten. In order to prevent the European market from being emptied of vector equipment and individual countries from imposing their own export restrictions, the Commission adopted in mid-March temporary restrictions on exports of certain types of vector equipment to non-EU countries. We immediately contacted the Swedish authorities when we experienced a stop in the deliveries due to control, especially at Svinesund. On the Swedish side, understanding of our views was expressed, but the Swedish authorities needed more detailed signals from the Commission to justify exemptions. Export licence requirements were established on the basis of EU legislation on trade with third countries outside the internal market. Because this legislation is not part of the EEA Agreement, we were initially not granted an exemption from the requirement. From the Norwegian side, we believed that requiring export licences to countries in the internal market, such as us, was not in line with the EEA Agreement. We therefore asked for an extraordinary meeting of the EEA Committee, in which we presented the position of the EEA/EFTA States that we had to be exempted from the requirement. The EEA Committee did not reach agreement, but the EU promised to take a closer look at the matter. I then had phone calls both with the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, and the responsible Commissioner for Trade, Phil Hogan. We also raised the issue at the EU Health Minister’s meeting on the same day. Short time, i.e. the following day, the Commission granted exemptions from export licence requirements resulting from our close relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement. Cars with mouthbands, masks and disposable gloves were thus left unimpeded between EU countries and Norway and the other EEA/EFTA countries. Norway joined the EU initiative for joint acquisitions on 20 March in the management of serious cross-border health threats. Joint acquisitions help to bring countries together into a stronger position vis-à-vis industry so that both more balanced contractual conditions can be negotiated and that we can actually get hold of vaccines or equipment in the event of a shortage. The Ministry of Health and Welfare shall administer this Agreement. By means of the EEA Agreement, Norway is also taking part in the European Medicines Agency (EMA). It has proved to be very important to us in this situation. The EMA is closely monitoring the development of the pharmaceutical market and supply chains. The EU/EEA countries and industry are also in dialogue with the Agency on the challenges of access to medicines. I rarely allow an opportunity to stress the importance of the EEA Agreement to go away, and today there is no exception. The pandemic does not stop at borders, and both Norway and the EU have an interest in close cooperation. However, without the common EEA legislation on public acquisitions, medicinal products and medical devices, this cooperation would have been much more demanding to achieve in practice. We have seen that many European countries stand for each other and show solidarity. Several countries have sent infection protection equipment to each other, and in particular Italy, which was hit early and hard. Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Luxembourg have opened their hospitals and treated seriously ill patients from other countries, where capacity has been detonated. As a tangible expression of European solidarity, a Norwegian medical intervention team was sent to North Italy in early April following a request from the Italian authorities. The contribution was very well received by the Italian authorities, and the team was met with great gratitude by their colleagues at the hospital in Lombardia. The intervention team consisted of 16 nurses and doctors, as well as 3 people from the Civil Defense Department. The Norwegian team is linked to the EU Civil Protection Programme and is part of a pool of such teams in the EU. Several hundred thousand European citizens, including the Nordics, have needed help to get home quickly from travelling both within and outside Europe. It has become increasingly demanding when travel restrictions, border crossings and port bans have been introduced, and flights are being cancelled worldwide. The EU's external service coordinates the consular services of the Member States through regular meetings. The U.D. is taking part in the meetings, and several hundred Nordics abroad have been accommodated on aircraft organised by other European countries through this cooperation. Similarly, Norway has offered places to other Europeans on the planes we have set up to help the Nordics travel home. Norway is also participating in the EU Civil Protection Coordination Mechanism through the EEA Agreement. The mechanism has been important in repatriating European, including Norwegian, citizens of other parts of the world. There are 34 countries participating in the cooperation. Let me also highlight Nordic cooperation as a very important part of wider European cooperation. Since the Korona outbreak, and so far also before, I have had extensive contact and close cooperation with all my Nordic colleagues. We have had frequent and largely weekly Nordic Foreign Ministers meetings at videoconferencing in the last few weeks, not later than last night. We share information and ensure good coordination, especially in the consular field. The cooperation to set up planes to get Nordic citizens safely home from travel is extensive. Nordic cooperation between outbound embassies is also important to provide consular assistance to Nordic citizens abroad. The Nordic countries do not have embassies in every country. We therefore assist our citizens across Nordic embassies. We give Danes help in a country where the Danes do not have an embassy, and the Swedes give us similar help in a country where they have representation, but we do not. The Nordic Health Ministers have also held several video conferences, as well as close contacts between health professionals in the Nordic region. There is no doubt that Nordic trust and cohesion provide security. I am glad that Nordic cooperation works as well – even when it blows as bad as it does. Yesterday, Prime Minister Erna Solberg was a host, along with others. The EU, at the launch meeting of the international donor conference against the Corona virus, initiated by the European Commission. The aim of the conference was to pool political and financial support for the development of vaccines, medicines and tests to combat covid-19. Norway then announced contributions of a total of approx. 13 B.C.E. kr. Government will increase support for vaccine development against covid-19 through the epidemic prevention coalition, CEPI, by 2.2 billion. kr. Norway has previously announced contributions of SEK 1.6 billion. kr for the period 2017-2025. At the summit, the Prime Minister announced a new contribution to the Vakzinaliansen Gavi in 1 billion. dollar, which equals approx. 10,25 B.C.E. kr for 2021-2030. The Prime Minister also announced an additional contribution to the World Health Organisation of 50 million. to strengthen the organisation’s ability to lead in the fight against the pandemic. Yesterday's conference totaled over 80 billion. kr. The collection will take place in May. Norway and the EU share common objectives to strengthen international health cooperation and help countries in other parts of the world to deal with the crisis. Norway helped to establish the CEPI and the vaccine alliance Gavi. We have taken the lead in vaccine development against covid-19 through CEPI. For Norway it is a key point both to develop a vaccine and to ensure a fair distribution of it to all countries, including developing countries. Norway and the EU agree that such an initiative must support under the global health leadership of the World Health Organisation. The EU granted EUR 232 million on 24 February. EUR for the World Health Organisation’s response to the pandemic and is now at the forefront of global mobilisation for vaccine development. Norway has been asked to take a leading role in the follow-up, including: Germany, Japan, France, the United Kingdom and Saudi Arabia. Disinformation and false news related to the pandemic are on the web. Unfortunately, something is also reproduced in established media. Our own media surveillance department has found that nearly half of the Nordics, without being aware of it, have read false news about covid-19, and the National Security Authority has warned about spreading false news about the virus. The EU has established its own website to correct the disinformation about covid-19. A survey conducted on behalf of the EU’s external service shows that deliberate disinformation is spread on social media and that much of this is propaganda aimed at the EU’s management of the crisis. In addition to conspiracy theories and false health councils, there is in particular one remaining narrative: the EU is failing to deal with the pandemic and the EU is about to go into disintegration. This is often combined with the fact that Russia and China are the responsible actors and that the EU or the Member States are neither acting nor showing solidarity with each other. Our experience shows a very different picture. Without close cooperation with our closest neighbours in Europe, we could not have managed to deal with the crisis. EU efforts for global cooperation and support for Europe's neighbourhoods are more important than ever, including for us. It is therefore worrying that the extensive efforts made in the framework of European cooperation are subject to misinformation — both deliberately and unconsciously. It helps undermine people's trust in both European institutions and national governments. This is why it is so important to have a critical look at the information flow and to pay particular attention to attempts to subvert mistrust between countries. We see the same picture in the disinformation about NATO, and it was an important topic at the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in April. It is positive that the EU and NATO step up cooperation on the management of disinformation. Covid-19 hits a Europe with obvious weaknesses in monetary and financial policy, and the recession is now inevitable. Budget deficits and government debt will increase significantly in all EU Member States. In order to address the negative economic impact, both the Member States themselves and the EU have centrally implemented comprehensive measures in a short time. In the EU, the division of competences in the economic field is clear: monetary policy is common in the euro area, and fiscal policy is national, albeit coordinated between Member States. At country level, a number of measures have been introduced to limit temporary loss of income, to ensure continued access to credit for enterprises and households and to ensure liquidity in financial markets. The European Central Bank has launched a package of measures to ensure access to finance in the markets for the benefit of the Member States. In addition, Member States now agree on an action package of 540 billion. euro. It includes preventive credit lines from the European Stabilisation Mechanism and the creation of a separate fund through the European Investment Bank. Provisional loans will also be granted to national unemployment insurance schemes to support the hardest-pressed national safety nets during the acute coronary crisis. Member States have also agreed to start work on a fund for the reconstruction of the European economy after the crisis. IMF forecasts from mid-April indicate that GDP in the euro zone will fall by 7.5 pst. in 2020 to then increase by 4.7 pst. in 2021. Other forecasts indicate an even more negative trend, but of course there is generally considerable uncertainty about the figures. Work on speeding up the economy will start as the measures for the protection of infection are increased. Cooperation with the EU is central when we take action to promote sustainable economic activity and growth in the coming years. EEA legislation has proved to provide additional flexibility in times of crisis, not least with regard to public support legislation, and it has provided a common framework for implementing important measures. The EEA Committee and ESA have responded quickly to ensure supplies, protection of life and health and to clarify additional State aid and action packages of major importance for Norwegian industry and Norwegian workers. The national measures taken to save jobs and businesses are just one aspect of resuming the economy. Up towards 80 pst. Norwegian exports and foreign investment go to the EU, and Norwegian value creation and welfare are strongly exposed to developments in the European economy. We are totally dependent on our most important export markets being reopened by our demand responding. We have to recognise that this will happen at different times in different countries. Although Norway has a unique fiscal space for action, a new and long-term economic downturn in Europe will also affect the Norwegian economy. In the economic reconstruction Europe is now facing, it is important that we stick to our overall objectives and our clear commitment to green growth. In December 2019, the European Commission presented the Communication on the European Green Deal, or the EU Green Roadmap. The Green Roadmap represents a shift in the pace of the EU’s follow-up to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement. The implementation of the Green Road Map will mean a climate-friendly transformation of the entire European economy, while strengthening competitiveness. Zero emissions, circular economy, sustainability, biodiversity and inclusive migration are key components. The government's ambition to be an active and relevant partner of the EU in climate policy is firm. We also want to be an active driver of an even more ambitious policy by involving the EU in increasing the level of emissions reduction to 55 pst. towards 2030. We and the other Nordic countries have experience from knowledge-based green transitions that will benefit the rest of Europe and can help promote Norwegian and Nordic solutions and technologies and strengthen our competitiveness. A large part of the policy development will take place in areas covered by the EEA Agreement. Here, Norway has formalised opportunities to participate. In other areas, Norway will have to use other channels and instruments. In order to get an impact on our views, it is important that we are early on in formulating opinions and interests. I am committed to ensuring good involvement and anchoring in business, the social partners and civil society. Successful Norwegian, Nordic and European migration will depend on our success in creating attractive opportunities for many. The United Kingdom, as you know, left the EU on 31 January this year. The first round of negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom on the future relationship was conducted from 2 to 5. of March in Brussels. Eleven parallel negotiation tracks were opened, among others. for trade in goods, services, fish, transport, justice and competition. The Korona outbreak put a temporary stop to these negotiations. Both the British government and the European Commission saw the need to prioritise tasks other than brexit. After the first round of negotiations, there was a longer break until 20–21. on April, when the parties met again in a digital round of negotiations. New digital negotiations will be held next week, from 11 May, and at the beginning of June. So far, the negotiations show that the parties are relatively distant from each other in substantive areas such as contract architecture, a level playing field, how fundamental rights should be guaranteed, and fisheries cooperation. It will take time to find solutions to these questions. This has raised the issue of whether the EU and the United Kingdom will be able to agree on an agreement before the transitional period expires on 31 December or whether the transitional period will need to be extended. However, the UK Government insists that negotiations should be concluded during the year. This means that the time pressure to achieve goals before the turn of the year is even greater. The pandemic has naturally also affected the progress of our negotiations with the British on the future relationship. We start with a wide-ranging first meeting with the British together with Iceland and Liechtenstein on Thursday this week, May 7. Central to the negotiations that will follow will be a free trade agreement that we negotiate with our EEA/EFTA partners, Iceland and Liechtenstein. The aim is to ensure a comprehensive agreement that ensures as much as possible of the close economic cooperation we have today. The aim is for Norwegian business to have at least as good terms in trade with the United Kingdom as the EU gets. In addition, there is a need to negotiate agreements in several other areas — in the area of fisheries agreements and in the field of health, education and justice, to name a few. We closely follow the negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom through a good dialogue with the EU negotiating teams, and in particular in areas covered by the EEA, Schengen and agreements we have concluded with the EU. In March last year, the United Kingdom adopted a law providing for a transitional period for the withdrawal of the EU. The law came into force on 1 February this year, when the British formally left the EU. We are covered by the transitional period agreed between the EU and the United Kingdom, which will expire this year unless the parties agree on an extension. As I have explained earlier, Norway, together with Iceland and Liechtenstein, has also signed a separation agreement with the United Kingdom reflecting the relevant parts of the EU-UK delegation agreement, in particular with regard to the acquired rights of Norwegian and British citizens in our two countries. It must enter into force before the end of the transitional period. The agreement will be submitted to the Stortinget for consent early in the autumn, at the same time as the necessary legislative changes to implement the agreement. Throughout the Brexit process, the government has focused on keeping the Storting continuously oriented. We'll keep doing that. The coronary apathy is primarily a huge health and economic challenge. The major social, social and human suffering covid-19 brings with it can also have security policy implications. We must not forget that what we are now facing comes to the top of other challenges, such as increased major activisation, weakened arms control, migration flows, post-financial and nationalist and populist developments in several countries. In addition, Chinese attempts to influence, invest and purchase in critical infrastructure continue. The crisis reveals how vulnerable countries can be and how vital it is to build robust preparedness for unknown future threats. It also clearly shows how dependent we are on international cooperation when faced with cross-border threats. This is important in Norwegian security policy. Now that the EU strengthens its common defence and security policy, it is wise for Norway to closely associate itself with our closest European neighbours and allies. We're not doing that as an alternative to NATO, but to strengthen NATO. We do this to help ensure that defence and security initiatives do not overlap, but rather complement each other and help us all get through stronger together. Through the EEA Agreement, we participate in EU cooperation on defence research and in European cooperation on social security and preparedness. Norway also wants to participate in individual projects under PESCO, which is the deepened EU defence cooperation. Norway has a particular interest in projects of cross-border military mobility, which are also essential for NATO. Norway has experience and valuable competences in this field that can contribute to common benefit. As far as the European Defence Fund, EDF, is concerned, it is natural that Norway, as an EEA member, should be given the opportunity to participate. This, and PESCO participation for countries outside the EU, is now being discussed in the EU, but no final decision has been taken. There are also initiatives in the field of defence and security policy outside the formal framework of the EU and NATO. Last autumn, Norway became a member of the French-initiated European intervention initiative, which we hope will improve Europe’s ability to deal with crises in the long term. I would also like to highlight the close Nordic defence and security cooperation through NORDEFCO, and our joint consultations, exercises and cooperation on social security and preparedness. We also continue to develop our security policy cooperation with key European allies, such as Germany, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom. We do the same with the United States, as the main guarantor of European and Norwegian security. Through our security policy cooperation with Europe, Norway will continue to work towards closer coordination between the EU and NATO and contribute to maintaining strong and lasting transatlantic links. The rule of law shall guarantee democracy and human rights. This is particularly important in times of crisis. Crisis laws have been introduced in many countries in connection with the pandemic, including in Norway. Such laws shall be proportional, i.e. have a limited duration, a high use threshold and an integrated control mechanism. And above all, they must take care of international and human rights obligations. It is worrying that countries, as we see in Hungary, use the Korona crisis to carry out hostilities that give the opportunity to centralize power. Central institutions such as the Council of Europe, the European Parliament and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights have pointed out that the law provides the Orbán Government with broad powers, without being limited in time, and without the law facilitating good control mechanisms. Norway has also addressed this criticism against Hungary. Civil society and the opposition in Hungary have also reacted negatively. In spite of this, the Hungarian Government chose to use its two-thirds majority in Parliament for the adoption of the law, without taking into account the counter-representations expressed. It is also ominous when EU countries, such as Poland, do not respect the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. When the trust in the State of law is undermined, it must be responded to. The European Court of Justice has ruled on the obligations of the rule of law in several judgments, both in infringement proceedings and in interpretation opinions of national courts. The fundamental values of the EU include the obligation to provide effective legal protection and, in particular, independent courts. The organisation of national courts and prosecutors is a national responsibility, but must be carried out within the framework of EU law. We support the work in progress in the EU to strengthen the rule of law. Specific decisions of the European Court of Justice may contribute to further promoting a common European rule of law culture. Processes initiated by both the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council also contribute in the same direction. There is also an important work in the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights, as well as the UN Human Rights Council. We also work within the framework of Nordic cooperation with a common aim of strengthening democracy and the rule of law. For the EU, the rule of law and democracy will be important when restrictive measures relating to the pandemic are gradually lifted and the most acute health and economic challenges are addressed. In this context, the Commission has signalled a review of restrictive measures in the Member States in the light of Treaty obligations on the rule of law, democracy, freedom of expression and other common values and fundamental rights. A living civil society, together with independent media, is an important prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. We provide substantial support in the form of EEA funds for civil society in all beneficiary countries and have agreements on judicial programmes in several countries. For the current programming period, Hungary remains to be agreed on the management of the Civil Society Fund. For donors, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, it is imperative that the management of EEA funds for civil society be managed independently of the authorities. Now let's try one last attempt to find a solution that both parties can accept. Failure to do so could result in the application of none of the funds envisaged in Hungary. The development of the courts in Poland is serious and acute. We gave a clear political signal to Poland on 27 February when we decided to postpone the signing of an agreement on judicial cooperation under the EEA funds. The reason for this was our concern about the deterioration of the rule of law in Poland, and for the same reason the Norwegian court administration decided to withdraw as a project partner. The justice programme will be reviewed, and developments in Poland indicate that the situation is being assessed on an ongoing basis. Migration management in Greece is under great pressure. In 2019, over 70,000 migrants arrived in Greece from Turkey, and there are now more than 38 000 migrants in the Greek islands. The situation in migrant camps is demanding, and the humanitarian conditions in the islands are very difficult. It is the responsibility of the Greek authorities to ensure that the operation of the camps complies with the basic international standards of the EU. Norway has provided long-term and comprehensive assistance to Greece in various areas in order to strengthen its capacity to fulfil its obligations. Norway provides assistance to Greece through the EEA funds. A significant part is reserved for migration. From 2012 until 2021, Norway will have totaled around 57 million. EUR available under EEA funds to strengthen the capacity of Greek authorities to handle refugees and migrants. The funds in the current period may be used up to and including April 2024. The EEA funds shall contribute to a better and more efficient Greek asylum management, as well as to improving the quality and capacity of the Greek reception system. Lone minors and other vulnerable groups are given priority. In addition, we have recently contributed equipment from the Civil Defence Central Repository to meet immediate humanitarian needs among vulnerable migrants in the Greek islands. There are a large number of refugees in the world, including highly vulnerable groups which are further exposed as a result of covid-19. Norway is a major contributor to migration management globally, and we are the country in Europe that receives most quota refugees per capita. Most importantly, however, our work is on sustainable solutions to migration challenges and a responsible European migration policy. The only long-term solution to the situation in Greece is broad European cooperation, which is also the goal of the government. Let me now mention some of the relevant EEA issues. The clean energy package is central to achieving the EU energy and climate targets for 2030. The development towards a more climate-friendly energy system in the EU requires coordination between countries and energy authorities, which we ourselves have very good experience with from Nordic power market cooperation. We support the EU's ambition to develop a clean and competitive energy sector at the lowest possible cost. Norway already has ambitious renewable energy targets. Our renewable share is today about 70 pst. Good access to renewable energy enables us to further invest in the electrification of the transport sector and other sectors. When we now assess the legislation, we will look at the impact on the Norwegian energy sector and the need for EEA adaptations. We are committed to ensuring constitutional reasons and fully secure Norwegian interests. Any negotiations with the EU on EEA adaptations will take time. It is therefore too early to say anything about when the clean energy package will be presented to Stortinget. The fourth railway package of the EU will soon be submitted to the Stortinget for treatment. The railway package is in line with Norwegian policy and is already largely implemented in Norway. Both in Norway and in the EU, we want to strengthen rail as a safe and climate-friendly means of transport for people and goods. By including the railway package into the EEA Agreement, we also ensure the proper functioning of the internal market throughout the EEA territory. The European Commission will present a proposal for a Directive aimed at ensuring a reasonable minimum wage for all. The reason for the proposal is to ensure fair pay for all workers, to reduce pay differentials in Europe and at the same time to offset the movement of highly educated people from east to west in Europe. Several countries that do not have the minimum wage are opposed to this proposal. The Commission has therefore said that it will not be proposed to introduce a statutory minimum wage in high-tariff countries where wage fixing takes place exclusively through collective bargaining. Before there is a concrete proposal, we do not know how this will affect countries that have not regulated minimum wages or whether it will work in Norway through the EEA Agreement. The employee side of Europe supports the Commission’s initiative, but believes that countries without statutory minimum wages should not be required to impose minimum wages. The employer's side is against the proposal. Neither the parties nor the Norwegian authorities want a minimum wage system. Instead, we believe that Europe should work to strengthen the parties and cooperation between the parties in Europe. The government has close contact with the social partners and is actively working on the matter. We have expressed Norway’s position on several occasions, both in meetings and in letters, including: in a joint address from the Nordic Labour Ministers to the responsible Commissioner. Second round of consultations with concrete proposals is expected to be launched in the first half of May. The case of incorrect practice of the EU Social Security Regulation has shown that it may be difficult to have an overview of the current Norwegian legislation in an area affected by the EEA Agreement. I will not go into the specific matter here, as it is the subject of an external review. The Arnesen Committee, which examines the matter, is scheduled to produce its report this summer. However, regardless of the audit, the government has started work on looking at how the EEA rules are implemented in Norwegian law. There are many reasons why it may be difficult to have an overview of EEA legislation. EU legal acts tend to be more technical, detailed and comprehensive than traditional Norwegian legislation. This may be particularly challenging when implementing Regulations, which are to be incorporated under the EEA Agreement into national law as such, i.e.: without rewriting, and carried out by incorporation. The law, or regulation, will then refer only to the regulation as contained in the EEA Agreement but will not reflect the content itself. Good regulatory quality is very important. It is essential that the legislation is sufficiently clear and accessible to those who use it and comply with the rules, both management and private. It contributes to compliance with and functioning as intended and in line with the obligations of Norway under the EEA Agreement. The government therefore looks into how EEA legislation is implemented in Norwegian law and will consider measures to make the legislation more accessible. The Coronapandemic has shown that solidarity with other countries can be difficult when all countries are hit at the same time. Nevertheless, we see that European countries and the EU institutions have largely met the crisis with coordinated responses both through legislation and other measures. Solidarity is more than immediate and tangible help. It is also about joining forces to avoid a weakening of trust in European cooperation organisations and institutions. The crisis has taken a lot of lives. The measures to prevent infection have hit and continue to hit the economy hard. Solidarity between people and between countries is being tested, including in Europe. It is too early to predict the long-term impact of the crisis on the international economy and policies. But we can already draw two basic conclusions: Firstly, European and transatlantic cooperation is essential to address the challenges we face. Secondly, the crisis highlights the importance for Norway that we have a close relationship with the EU, not least through the EEA Agreement. We're going to fence around the European cooperation we're part of, and stand together against forces that will weaken it. – In conclusion, I would like to say that it was good to be back in the main hall again!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e339	The President proposes that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU/EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting in the United Kingdom. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e355	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e368	This case concerns changes in the Foreign Affairs Act as a result of the Ministry of Justice and Defence's proposal to amend the Law of 15 May 2008 No. 35 on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their detention here. In the first row, the rules apply to expulsion. Firstly, there is access to the expulsion of temporary and permanent residence permits for foreigners who are sentenced to punishment for some sexual offences that do not have a sufficiently high punishment framework today to be declared today as a deportation basis. Secondly, it is agreed to introduce access to temporary residence permits for foreign residents for serious infringements of road traffic laws. In both cases, there are penalties that could also have an impact on EEA citizens with right of residence. It is important that it is easier to expel more foreigners who commit criminal offences and who have relied on Norway. It is important that foreign law does not prevent expulsion when it is actually presented as a perfectly reasonable and proportionate response. The law is like this today, and therefore a change of laws is necessary. It is important for people’s confidence in immigration regulation, and not least for the general legal opinion, that we have legislation that allows them to expel people, for example. have committed sexual offences. In addition, it is proposed to correct a deficiency in the expulsion decisions, which make it possible today to expel foreigners who ask for a knife in public places, but not those like them. firearms. Section 7 of the Proposition also contains the government’s feedback on Grandfather’s call decision No. 856 from the ageing period 2017-2018 to ‘ensure that practice in the administration of matters relating to the First paragraph of Section 53 of the Foreign Affairs Act is in line with the intentions of the legislator’. [[the malpractice provision]] Only SV have comments to this effect. The SV and the Progress Party also have their own proposals, which they will probably do well for themselves here during the debate today. I want to explain at the end a little bit: on page 8, in the comments of the Right and Christian People's Party, in the third last paragraph of column 1, there is a slight typographical error. What is written in the setting today says that "in the pre-worker it is shown that the banishment" etc. It shall read: «In the preparatory work it is referred to that the basis for expulsion...». There are actually only a few words missing – no big deal, but I think it's just right to mention it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e392	It is important that the laws of the country are in line with the legal opinion of ordinary people regarding the foreign field and expulsion cases. It is enough that most people see it as reasonable to be expelled from the country if they have come here, obtained a residence permit and committed crime. As you can see, this is a very good case, where you actually lower the threshold and expand the possibility of starting an expulsion case within more types of offences than is in the law today. The Progress Party probably believes that it would have been possible to go much further in a wide range of areas of this legislation, as it is still the case that it will take a relatively large amount of time before being expelled. It's not like you're doing one criminal act and being expelled. There is a need for more action and a risk of repeating these actions – there are a wide range of assessments to be made before being expelled. I think it's a reasonable opinion of most people that you shouldn't commit crime and still stay in a country you've come to and got a residence permit in. The Progress Party has chosen some issues in which we wanted to make proposals. We want the stay of EEA citizens to be covered by the additional protection against expulsion to be increased to 15 years. We also want violations of local police regulations to be considered as grounds for expulsion. So we're thinking in particular about e.g. local beggars who cannot feed themselves, nor do they comply with local police regulations. It should then serve as a basis for any expulsion proceedings. That is why we have proposed it. With that, I will deal with the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e403	The representative Jon Engen-Helgheim has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e408	The legislative changes that have been proposed will be adopted unanimously. Everyone agrees. What SV has done in the comments is to highlight some of the things in the proposition, which we believe are important in assessing this. For it is a question of the reasonableness and soundness of these decisions, as stated in the proposition. It is primarily for non-residents with limited links that there will be practical questions of expulsion under the new provisions. It's also in the proposition. It's important to underline. The same must apply if the case concerns children and the best interests of the child speak against expulsion. There is reason to call for the work decided by the Storting to be done by the government, with alternatives to expulsion also in other matters affecting children. We have also put forward a proposal to protect the child’s best in asylum matters otherwise, so Norway has a part to play in caring for the children in these matters. But we also have our own comment, and it concerns the follow-up to the request decision No. 856, on residence permits due to abuse of living conditions. There the government says that they will accept this matter. They have gone through it and believe that they actually follow the intentions of the legislator with these provisions as they are practiced today. We have received many enquiries from, among others: JURK – Legal Advice for Women – which tells them that this is a very difficult field for them and that they have been informed by UDI that UDI will not change practices since they have been informed by the government that they agree with the practice being followed today. It is not the intention of the legislator, namely to obtain a residence permit in Norway because of abuse of the relationship with life. The Supreme Court has asked for an assessment of this. We believe that what is stated in the proposal is not a receipt of this important topic, and that there is a need for the government to review several judgments, both positive and negative, in the foreign administration, and to have contact with organisations working on it to ensure that the threshold is as low as it was supposed to be when the Stortinget adopted these provisions. I refer to SV's suggestion, which is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e419	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e424	I welcome the broad support of the Committee on Government Proposals. I interpret the opinion of the Committee as a clear consensus, both that it is important to have individuals out of the country committing criminal offences and that fair expulsion rules are important in order to maintain confidence in immigration policy. While there is often a debate on expulsion cases involving long-term residents and parental responsibility for children in Norway, I perceive that there is a broad consensus that strict responses should be made to foreigners who have short stays and limited other links. When non-residents commit criminal offences, which may also be suitable for raising concerns in the population, it is both right and important that the foreign authorities may decide that they are undesirable in Norway. Then I have noticed the proposal of the Progress Party on the expulsion of violations of police regulations. The proposal concerns non-residents without a residence permit, including non-residents who have an application for treatment. In this context, I would like to show that violations of police regulations can be punished under the police law, and that the penalties are fines or prisons for up to three months. Penalties for offences against police regulations already provide sufficient grounds for the expulsion of non-residents without a residence permit. There is something else where foreigners are asylum seekers. The need for international protection must, of course, be considered before it can become relevant for expulsion. In extending this, I would also like to refer to what is stated in the bill that, on 30 January of this year, the Department gave an instruction to the UDI and the police that they will assess, under detailed conditions, the expulsion of non-residents without a residence permit who are being penalised, among other things. for disorder, or not to comply with police orders to withdraw from an area. I have also taken note of the proposal from the Progress Party that longer living time should be required in Norway than today for EEA citizens before reaching the highest level of protection against expulsion. However, this may be adopted in the framework of EEA legislation outside the Norwegian authorities. As indicated in Section 6.6 of the Proposition, it follows from the relevant EU Directive that the highest level of protection against expulsion is to occur when foreigners have been in the Member State of expulsion for the last 10 years. Then I would like to stress the need for regulatory adjustments and improvements to be constantly assessed by the Department. I am, among other things, Awareness of how the Ministry will meet new challenges that our institutions are raising.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e446	First, I have to correct a delay in my post, because I said that it was the Supreme Court, but it is the Civilizing Law that has asked questions about whether it is based on an excessive threshold for what is dealt with by the maltreatment clause in UNE's practice. That's the question that the government's saying is signed out with this proposition. And what the government refers to is that UN Seas have gone through this, and from this review in UNE and UDI, they conclude that the provision is in line with the legislator's intention. When a court points out that it is assumed that the administration is mispracticing a law, and we have now had quite a number of cases that show that things have gone wrong – what kind of routine does the ministry have to check that this is being thoroughly investigated?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e451	What I have been informed about in this case – I have to say it that way, since I have some limited experience from this department yet – is that the department has gone through the practice of the UDI and UNE, and case law. It is said that the case law is limited, but the practice you have does not indicate that you are not consistent with the intentions of the legislator. In the case of UNE and UDI practices, it is said that the requirement of proof in abuse cases under the Foreign Affairs Act is low. No documentation is required. The general rule is that the applicant’s performance should be taken into account. Overall, it must be taken into account that the provision is practised in line with the intentions of the legislator and that the provision ensures that victims of violence are properly protected, and therefore the government has not proposed any changes. So here we're going to apply completely different documentation requirements, and we're going to use the applicant's presentation. And then I would like to listen to what suggestions we might have made in addition to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e457	What we've asked for is a proper review of this, based on, among other things, Citizenship of the law and questions in this case, as well as the experience of the counselling services for women working on these matters. They now say that they advise women not to seek a stay after this provision, because this is so difficult to get through, sail in cases where they think the evidence is quite clear. So the problem here is that there's quite a difference between what the council says and what the people who work on this in practice experience. I believe that both the Council of State and I are very concerned that this will be taken care of in the intention that the legislator has had, namely that there should be a low level of compensation here. For these are very serious issues where women – mainly – are those who need protection. So the question is whether the Council of State will look at this matter again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e462	It's very difficult when the floors, from which we get information, have one experience, and the ones that advise, another. It simply means that I have to go through this, and I'm completely open to proposing changes if that's the basis for it, but based on the information I had, it doesn't seem like that. But I am set to go a new round and possibly come back to Stortinget if there is a basis for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e467	I would like to thank the Council of State for the statement and for having come to our proposal in its speech, with information that the Council of State interprets it so that we already have a law that allows expulsion if you break local police regulations. Then I understand that the Council of State believes that if you break these statutes and get punished for it, you will be able to fulfill it. Based on the information I have managed to acquire, we do not have examples of people being expelled as a result of violations of local police regulations. Such expulsions have been tried in the past, but they have been stopped. I would like to ask the Council of State if she knows that Norway has managed to send people out on the basis of breaches of local police regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e472	No, I'm not familiar with that, but I haven't asked about that either, because this debate is about permission to do so. Then it's up to the police both to investigate and to detect, and it's up to the courts to punish. My response to the proposal of the Progress Party was that the home you want here is already home. There is another question as to whether it is used and why it is not used. But I feel that this can be done, and perhaps it is more updated after the instructions we gave in January to both the UDI and the police, among others. on expulsion from places following police orders.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e477	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e495	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions by members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e502	In this case, too, it is a unanimous committee that supports the legislative proposals that have been promoted. The first is about the imposition of DNA testing, and it may be very important to establish a secure identity. Such a practice as is proposed here would clarify the content of the provisions that already exist, and the wording now, in the new legislative proposal, is easier to understand and more transparent about what this is all about. It is a condition for imposing a DNA test that the other information in the case does not provide a reasonable basis for establishing family relationships. It is also that testing cannot be carried out by force, and it is not punishable to say no to being tested, but it may, of course, affect the case that is being treated to establish family relations. All parties have agreed on this legal provision. SV has comments, and it has nothing to do with this new provision, but it has been difficult for many to get to foreign stations and get the DNA test delivered. It is because Norway does not have foreign stations in all countries — as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said just now — and that it can be very difficult for many to cross borders, over dangerous areas, to submit these applications and tests. Then I see that the government parties write in the setting that this can be done because you have made an agreement with external service providers in some places. However, it is still the case that for some, these obligations may lead to large additional costs and completely insurmountable obstacles to the delivery of these tests. So here there's a need to look at how this can be made available to more people, because it can't be that family reunion if you're from a family with a lot of money and can afford it, or if you're in an area where you don't have to cross dangerous land to get the necessary applications and tests. The second proposal is about tightening up the aupair system, and that is the jam in time. What the government is proposing is tightening up, the host families who have au pairs, and who are violating the rules and obligations of the scheme, may lose the right to have an au pair. It is time for those provisions to be tightened up, but it is in no way good enough, for what we know is that au pairs are in an extremely vulnerable situation – in a country where they cannot speak, where they are obliged to live in the host family, and where they have their residence permit attached to the host family. So, if there's a problem with the host family, and they say so, they're at risk of losing the residence permit. To all intents and purposes, the government managed to remove the aid that worked for the au pairs and to create a new one, but there is no legal competence, as it was in the previous one – which proved to be absolutely necessary. Therefore, the Workers’ Party and the SV are now promoting a proposal to start work on completing today’s auair system and establishing a new system to ensure that the purpose of cultural exchange and mechanisms to ensure better exploitation of participants are present. There is a great reason to question today; this is in practice cheap domestic and childcare services in the vast majority of cases. On the side of the SV, it is a matter of having a separate residence permit, not being related to the host family, the upper age limit for au pairs, the imposition of fees on the host family, and the need to demonstrate participation in the mandatory courses of the scheme. And finally, you have to re-establish a legal arrangement for these au pairs, because they really need it. Then I would like to mention the proposal in the vote, to which SV is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e521	The representative Karin Andersen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e526	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good review. The Labour Party supports the proposal to be able to impose a DNA test, and believes that there is a step towards strengthening legal certainty for applicants. So that's what we're for. What we're not for is the aupair system. It's really strange that not long ago there's a majority in this room who realize that today's aupair system has no real cultural exchange in itself. It's just not like that. It is very funny, still in 2020, that all the examples we have behind us in recent times also that this system is not being used at all as it was intended, as a cultural exchange, have not made such an impression – and that not the facts that have come around it have made – that we could have agreed to wind up today's aupair system as far as possible. Then I really miss the strong defence of the cultural exchange from those who are obviously in favour of it. Because I don't belong very much to the good arguments for why all these Filipino girls are so deeply concerned about Norwegian culture. That's not how it works in practice. That's how the previous speaker said: this is basically cheap household help, this is cheap laundry, this is cheap babysitting, this is cheap labor that can go out and air your bikini. It's okay that people want these services, but then I think you can buy them, because there are companies in Norway that provide these services – both babysitting, aeration of dogs, washing and ironing of clothes and all these things. There are companies in Norway that deliver, and you can pay the usual Norwegian rate to get it done. Then it's all right, and we're not against it. But this aupair system as it works today, we should soon wind up, and we also have proposals to ask the government to ‘start work to wind up today’s au pair system and establish a new system that ensures that the objective is cultural exchange and that ensures participants against exploitation’. It is odd, as I said, that there is still a majority in the United Kingdom who believe that today's aupair system is so essential as cultural exchange that it must be kept at all costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e537	The matter we are dealing with now has several elements, and I would like to comment on some of them. We live in an increasingly globalized world, with a great deal of interaction and movement of people across borders. Then it is also important that we maintain trust and respect for the arrangements for legal residence in our country. We need to facilitate the proper adoption of decisions by the non-resident authorities. In many cases, it is important to know whether a family relationship exists, which may be crucial for a foreigner’s right to stay in Norway. It can be in both family and other cases. Then the ability to impose a DNA test to confirm or cancel family relationship is a central tool. In the right we agree that by having a legal provision that gives access to the DNA test, we send out a clear signal that family relationships that are not real will be discovered. We believe that the provision of the law makes that clear, and we believe that it contributes to predictability for those concerned. We also agree with the wording that the result must be expected to be relevant to the decision in the cases, although it is still not automatically essential for the outcome of the case that a DNA test order is not complied with. It is therefore that the proposed framework for the imposition of DNA tests does not involve the use of force or punishment, if the obligation is not complied with, but that the case should be expected to be decided to the detriment of those concerned. The ability to impose a DNA test and to process genetic data about a person involves an intervention in the right to privacy. It is not unproblematic and needs to be carefully assessed in relation to the Constitution, human rights and the Data Protection Regulation. In this case, we believe that the bill discusses and in a reasonable way balances the authorities' need for control and regulation against the individual's private life, and we have noticed that it will not be appropriate to impose DNA testing on people who are not involved in a foreign matter after this proposal. So to the proposals for exclusion from the aupair system for host families that exploit au pairs. This is an important follow-up to the treatment of Document 8:54 S for 2016-2017, which we discussed in Stortinget in June 2017. In this context, the Stortinget was asked to make proposals for legislative changes, which ensure that families are not allowed to receive au pairs, if families are penalised or have a special reaction in relation to those who could lead to imprisonment for acts against an au pair. Furthermore, the Stortinget then asked that the government should propose a legislative change to ensure that host families who violate laws and regulations designed to protect au pairs might lose the right to have au pair. I think we're all concerned that our cultural exchange schemes should be safe, and not least that we have a special responsibility in terms of schemes for young adults. Such arrangements provide opportunities for those who might not otherwise have had the chance to expand their knowledge and experience in an international setting to do so. However, exchange mechanisms require security – personal security for one even in a foreign country, and security for not being exploited. It is a responsibility that should be heavy on us who also impose important framework conditions in this field. In the light of the experience gained over the years, we in the Right are very pleased with the constraints that come with this bill. There have been absolutely necessary tightening of rules to protect the au pairs, to safeguard their rights, to contribute to a safer system and to combat abuse and exploitation. In the right, we believe that the scheme can still be mutually beneficial for host families and young people travelling to or from Norway to be au pair, but it obviously requires that the principles and rules underlying the scheme be followed. We believe that this bill is a good measure to improve the system and to secure au pairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e565	This is an important and good matter from the government. Family immigration is the most common form of immigration to Norway. There are many thousand people who stay in Norway every year on the basis of family immigration, establishment or family reunification, and then it is very important that we have clear and good rules for this. We do, but we also know that there is a great deal of cheating and fantasy in these matters. In 2010, the UDI reviewed some family immigration permits among Somalis in Norway, and it turned out that as many as 40 pst. Probably had cheated on the application to get an authorisation they should not have had. We also know that in other parts of the foreign field there is a great deal of cheating, and you have trouble detecting it. DNA tests are a very accurate and effective way to detect fraud in family immigration matters, and therefore the Progress Party is particularly pleased that this is now coming into place properly. We know that DNA tests have been used in a lot of things. We believe that the government must continue to be committed to increasing the use, so that a DNA test is actually carried out in all family immigration cases, as mentioned in the Granavolden platform. With regard to the aupair system, the Progress Party is also very pleased that action is being taken to prevent abuse of it and to protect au pairs from being exploited by host families. It is very important that if you have abused such a scheme and used an au pair, you must be excluded from the scheme. In this respect, the Progress Party also strongly supports the new measures taken by the Government in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e574	The bill deals with two main issues: DNA testing is required, and exclusion from the aupair system for host families exploiting the au pair. The Central Party supports the first proposal. It is important that applicants are given the opportunity to prove their relationship through DNA testing. At the same time, the Committee stresses that DNA testing cannot be performed by coercion. So it won't be punishable to refuse a DNA test. There will still be the opportunity to refuse. This will strengthen the legal certainty of the applicant, but it will also counteract the abuse of the family reunification scheme. The centre party believes that if one refuses to carry out the DNA test, the general rule must be that it leads to rejection of the application. So to the question of exclusion from the aupair system for host families that exploit the au pair. The center party will stress that the intention of the aupair system is very good. The intentions of language training, cultural exchanges through work and participation in a family are good intentions, and the scheme is based on values that make it continue to exist, in our opinion. The scheme is mutually beneficial both for host families and for young people travelling either to or from Norway to be au pair, as long as the rules and principles underlying this scheme are followed, and we must assume that. We see that the system needs improvements and tightening, but provided that we get it in place, which we are about to do now, we think it should be continued. The changes that are being made within today's system, we believe that it should be continued, and not that, as has been proposed here, a new cultural exchange programme should be set up to replace the current system. So we also want to make sure that the rules are followed up and, if necessary, tightened up, so that the scheme works according to our intention. Together with SV, we have previously proposed that those authorised to use the au pair scheme should be required to have minor children in the host family. We are somewhat disappointed that the government has not included it in this proposal. As I said – we think it is good that it is now tightening in. Now there will be banishment for ten years, for gross crimes in life, for those who abuse the system, and that's very good. We hope that the department will follow this matter further in the future and see if it works as intended. At least we'll do that in the Center Party. If it doesn't, we'll have to discuss further tightening, because a prerequisite for the scheme to work as it's supposed is that the legislation is complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e589	I am pleased that there is support in the Committee for the imposition of DNA testing is an important control measure for the foreign administration. DNA tests contribute to the ability of the foreign authorities to make correct decisions based on a proper basis. It is a fact that some people are trying to stay in Norway on the basis of incorrect information, among others. false documents. This also applies in cases where a family relationship is a central condition for obtaining the permit. DNA tests help to reveal and counteract attempts to stay on the wrong basis. In many countries, it is also difficult to obtain documents with sufficient credibility, and DNA testing can therefore also be a good thing for applicants who would otherwise have difficulty documenting their family relationship. It is that today's regulations are based on consenting to taking the DNA test. Privacy principles contradict the use of consent when volunteering is not perceived as real. A DNA testing directive is more in line with these principles and with the reality of the situation. Several of the hearing bodies were therefore in favour of the amendment. They pointed out, among other things: clearer wording increases predictability for those concerned. I want to make it clear that the imposition of DNA testing should not be made by coercion. Nor will it be punishable to refuse. The legislative proposal, on the other hand, makes it clear that the application must then be expected to be rejected. At the same time, it shall not be automatic in this respect and the proposal allows for exceptional cases where reasonable grounds for refusal exist. With regard to the proposition's proposal for changes to the aupair system, I am pleased that there is still a majority in favour of continuing the scheme. The intention of the scheme, namely language training and cultural exchange through work and participation in a family, is good and based on values that ensure that the scheme should continue to exist. At the same time, there are some clear dilemmas, and we are well aware that there is abuse of the scheme and in some cases also serious abuse of au pairs. I am therefore committed to taking the challenges of the scheme seriously and preventing it from being misused. The bill now being promoted by the government is part of this work. We follow up on Stortingen's request decision No. 743 and 744 from 2017, but we also go further. In addition to allowing for permanent exclusion from the aupair system, we also lower the threshold to impose a ban on breach of the system. Furthermore, the government proposes that bans be imposed at an earlier stage in criminal offences committed against an au pair. Finally, we propose an information obligation for the police, so that the police should provide the foreign authorities with information on legal proceedings that could provide a basis for assessing the exclusion from the aupair system. In addition to these proposals, just before Christmas, the Ministry of Justice introduced changes to the foreign regulations to strengthen the rights of au pairs when they change families. Much has been done lately to strengthen the legal position of au pairs. Nevertheless, I see that some parties still want more action in the setting. Most of the proposals are not of such a nature as to be implemented in the form of legislation, and it is therefore not close to discussing them in the proposed legislation. The measures were also discussed in the debate in Stortinget on 3 December last year, when Stortinget then examined the proposals to wind up the aupair scheme in Document 8:162 S for 2018–2019. As the Council of State Jan Tore Sanner stated in that debate, the government is continuously considering the need for regulatory changes. And we'll do that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e610	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e615	The figures from 2017 show that approx. 960 people were allowed to be au pair in Norway, and please note: 850 of them. 960 turned out to be from the Philippines. I wonder: What does the Council of State think is the reason why young Filipinos are so deeply concerned about Norwegian culture? There are striking numbers when we have about 960 who are allowed to be au pair in Norway, of which approximately 850 of them are from one particular country, that's from the Philippines. What does the Council of State think is the underlying reason why young people in the Philippines are so concerned about coming to Norway to engage in cultural exchanges?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e623	I have newer numbers than that: in 2019, 689 aupair permits were granted, and 90 pst. Of them were from the Philippines. Then, unlike the representatives, I don't have the age of them. I have to say I'm reacting a little bit to the representative asking me to speculate about the motive for people applying for language exchange, cultural exchange, with other countries. I have no basis for that. I have a basis to say whether this is a scheme we want to keep. So let's do that. We know that there are dilemmas, as I explained. We know that some people are unfortunately abusing the system, and we have to do something about that. But I also have a long experience, among ordinary families, that these are good arrangements that lead to friendship for life. So asking me to wonder about this I'm not going to do anything at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e634	The councils wonder about a lot of other questions, at other times, so I thought she might think a little bit about why the proportion is so high from one particular country. And the figures provided by the Council of State, which is from 2019, are nothing different than those from 2017, really; there's no big difference between them. That's where the distribution is pretty similar. So there is so much overweight from one country that it must be possible to ask the Council of States, without it becoming speculative at all, what she believes is the main reason why one country is as strongly overrepresented as au pairs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e641	The President perceived that the Council of State answered that question, but left it to the Council of State to answer the new question, once again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e646	I simply respond to the question; I wonder a little about the motivation for it. I can wonder, of course I can. I can wonder why most Norwegian seafarers are Filipinos. It might have to do with the culture you have for it. This can apply equally to people applying for Norway: it can be a culture for talking to each other, for having good experience with it. I can't actually go into it. I can admit that we are going to have legal rules that prevent the misuse of a system that I see is essentially good, but that have some aspects that we need to regulate, and that is why we are doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e653	For the Central Party, it is essential that we continue to support this scheme, that it is actually a cultural exchange scheme, and that it does not become cheap labour. For this reason, we have made proposals together with SV to demand that minors in families be allowed to have au pair. Looking after kids is an easier task in a family that is very well suited to an au pair. They are not to be employed as housekeepers. It is very important that we take care of it, so I am a little disappointed that the government has not considered including that requirement in the amendment. Why has the Council of State chosen not to take advantage of the possibility, which could actually have limited the problem of a clean labour force, as some believe?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e658	Well, that's precisely because it's not supposed to be pure labour, and because it's not supposed to be domestic help, as Andersen's representative said. The term ‘family’ is diverse and we have many types of families in Norway. I think excluding families without minor children is not right in a system that deals with language and culture. I think there may be a lot of families that can offer this, within the framework of what the aupair system is supposed to be. That's why I think it would be very exclusive to say that it requires minors.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e663	I think we should talk honestly about this arrangement. As it is now, it is mainly young people from poor countries who view this as an opportunity to come to the West, and there are families with good advice and space who want to have help in the house and help care for the kids. That's the main part of this. I agree with the Labour Party that then it is about employing people for normal pay or open to work immigration in this area and paying a real wage. Some of the requirements of this scheme result in extreme exposure. Living in the host family makes you extremely vulnerable to abuse and exploitation. You're in a very dependency situation. The second is that the residence permit is linked to the host family. Doesn't the council see that this makes the arrangement very uncertain for the one who is au pair?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e670	I must admit that I think this is going to be a debate built on a good deal of prejudice. I know a lot of people who have had au pair, who don't have very good advice or a lot of space, but who have used the scheme, and where what I said has created friendship for life. ‘Very many’ was perhaps exaggerating – at least I know a good deal. It is also true that at least in my youth there were some Norwegians who traveled out to be au pair, to live in a family. Well, you're exposed then. Yeah, you can risk things. It's mutual, and that's why we have to have a set of rules attached to this. We have to have proper frames around it, and that's what we're trying to put in place. But I think that basically, most people don't take advantage of this system, and most au pairs actually experience learning another country, other cultures, other languages. At least I hope so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e677	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e684	I know very few who have had au pair. I guess that might say that we're from a little bit different sides of society. But as I said, I have nothing against neither cultural exchange nor anyone getting help in the house or looking after the children. What I have very much against, is that we have a system that obliges people who come from difficult conditions in other countries and want to improve their lives, to live with the host family and with it to postpone them to be exploited in a way that is almost impossible to detect, at least when we have removed the legal aid agencies that were at the office that Norsk Folkehelp drove, and that Caritas has now been held responsible for, but that no longer includes the legal assistance that au pairs received before. The second is that we have a system in which the residence permit of these people is related to the host family, that is, that one cannot get a residence permit and the sea can leave a host family without being afraid of losing the residence permit. That means that the threshold is very high before you tell it off. That's what you can talk about with those who ran the help phone for the au pairs when Norwegian People's Aid had it. It was not a trifle of things that came in there. But there they had the legal skills in place that could set up, hit the table, put the closet in place and make sure that people realized that there were laws and rules to follow, and that there was someone who was looking after. Not all of this applies, but it's too many. That means we're still sticking to a system where we expose those who come to Norway to risk is unbearably high. We know that more people are being exploited. There is no need to wait for further changes in this area. It's e.g. no reason to wait to change it so that host families are obliged to demonstrate that there is actually a cultural exchange, because they do not now. There is no reason to wait to change the fee imposed on changing the host family, which an au pair has to pay for shipping. Why in the world should it be like this? We understand that a person who lives on aupair wages and probably has bad advice from before, will also work for economic reasons. There is a lot to change here if this scheme is to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e702	I understand very well that the aupair system can be discussed. There are many arguments for and against it, and it is good that there are proposals that make it better and protect those who are au pairs in Norway. But what made me take the floor was the exchange of lines between the representative Lauvås and the minister, where Lauvås really seemed to think that the scheme had to be terminated just because there are many from the Philippines who are au pairs. There were very few other arguments coming from that edge. If that's how the Workers' Party might now be thinking of putting down all the schemes that only a rather fast selection uses, I can, for example. mentioned that of those who applied for citizenship last year, 82 were pst. from Africa or Asia, so it's a rather clever selection that also uses that scheme. Is it so that because very many, or the vast majority, who are applying for Norwegian citizenship, are from Africa, the Labour Party wants to put that arrangement down, just for that reason? I had expected a little deeper argument from the Labour Party in this matter, and that one does not try to get the Minister to wonder why some groups are using a perfectly legitimate system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e709	This is an honest position, I believe, that we are proposing that a system which is so clearly no longer culturally exchangeable as its object be phased out. It should not create the big, heartbroken counter-exposure of the representative Engen-Helgheim – or of anyone else for that matter. I'm not going to spend much more time on this matter, but I'm just going to say that the country of origin of those who come as au pairs to Norway has something to do with that position, and the representative of Engen-Helgheim knows it very well. I'm not going to argue anything further for that. It keeps saying that the system is out-of-date, and it is alarming that the representative, Engen-Helgheim, does not realize it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e716	I think there might be a need for a geography class as well. I saw a pretty funny case on YouTube yesterday, where American citizens were presented for a world map and asked to point out some countries. A lot of them pointed to Africa as a country. Now I also feel that there are people in this room who believe that Africa is a country. Africa is a continent, with very many countries. And there's quite a difference between a system of cultural exchange and the fact that people move to other countries for different reasons. So do the North, and there's a lot of reasons why you do it. It's totally legitimate. This cultural exchange programme, which is now taking place to a large extent between Norway and the Philippines, comes from the high need for young people in the Philippines to make money and get out of the world. I think that's completely legitimate, I understand them. I don't think it's wrong. What I think is wrong is that Norway does not protect them from exploitation when they come here. That's what's the problem, and when the majority opposes it, you stop calling this a cultural exchange, because it's not. This is household help, as it is today. For the regulation of DNA testing: I'm glad because in a way, there are facts that can be presented, and that can of course be of help to Norwegian authorities, but also to help them prove who they are. That should be possible. Some of them have been refused in Norway, linked to asylum applications. They've been refused to release DNA as evidence of who you are. It has to end. The second is this debate on cheating and fantasy. Yeah, it happens. But it's also the case that in other countries there are different family structures. I'm not saying we're going to accept it, but it's sometimes like that. an aunt adopts a child as her own because mother and father are dead, without being regulated by adoption or any other way. To present that as cheating and fantasy and evil in the mind is not right. I'm not saying it should be accepted, but I'm saying we're going to talk about it with due respect, because there's reason to have respect for those who assist in such difficult situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e738	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e745	Storing work is sometimes both probing, demanding and instructive. The cause we are discussing today, has a long history that has evolved over the past decades, through changing governments and shifting numbers of population. In short, the case concerns an exceptional point in motor vehicle sales. For nature and outdoor life, all motor travel, including the use of snowmobiles, is initially outlawed. The prohibition is laid down in Section 3 of Motor Travel Act, which reads as follows: ‘In the field and watercourses, motor travel shall not be permitted unless otherwise provided for by this Act or by a decision based on the Act.’ There are a number of exceptions to the ban on outland motor travel which mainly apply to traffic to different types of utility. One of the exceptions applies to the right to carry baggage and equipment for cabins not located at winter break roads. It is provided for the use of motor vehicles in the field and on the covered watercourses § 5, first paragraph, point (c). It states that the local government can authorise the use of snowmobiles for: ‘owner of a cabin for the carriage of luggage and equipment between road and cab at least 2,5 km from the broken road where there is no way to drive the car in the area’. It's this paragraph we're going to deal with today, based on a Document 8 proposal from the Center Party, where one wants to go away from the 2.5 km requirement. I would like to admit that the last round has been somewhat demanding, as we discussed it here, in the middle of an ongoing ring about how the 2.5 km limit should be interpreted. The management of this matter was started while the municipalities had the previous case on the phone, and the comments from the government parties clearly ask for it. As rapporteurs, I would like to thank the Committee for its patience and discussion in the implementation of the complex, as new information has come up gradually. The hearing recordings were delivered by deadline of 4 March 2020. They showed that several municipalities had indicated that the 2.5 km limit should be removed, and that it must be up to the municipalities themselves to decide on and how long the distance from the road to the cabin must be before they can apply to the municipality for permission to carry baggage and equipment themselves. In view of this and the fact that the Labour Party has now turned its back on the case, and there are several in the Chamber to remove the border, the Ministry has sent out on a hearing. So it is now up to the municipalities to run good, democratic processes at what limit they want to put themselves on. Right has always been the focus of local democracy and local self-determination. I hope we get a good and tidy debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e770	The size examines proposals for amending the regulation for the use of motor vehicles in outland areas on ice watercourses. At the same time, the government last Friday issued a similar proposal on a broad consultation round. That proposal gave so many leads to the design of that change, and has also spread so much uncertainty around when it will work, that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party come up with a loose proposal. The proposal we are discussing here today is to allow municipalities to grant exemptions for the use of snowmobiles to transport baggage and equipment to their own cabin, even though the distance between the cabin and the broken road is less than 2.5 km. This means that municipalities themselves can assess local conditions and manage them responsibly. The total load on noise issues, nature, wildlife and well-being must be assessed, but we believe that the individual municipality is best placed to do so. Snow conditions are also important and crucial for opening snowmobiles, and we see that there are considerable differences in the country. So while you have imposed a ban on fire a few weeks ago in southern parts of the country, you have meters of snow – and even the most intense snowmobile rider is quite tired – in the north, and more snow is promised. But what we see is that any debate about the use of snowmobiles and other outdoor life is characterized by being polarized and normative. There are heated debates about whether you are in favour of, or against, the use or amendment of laws and regulations. Too often we see tendencies to exaggerate the consequences of any decoration or adaptation. It is used words like full release and liberalisation, but that is not what we are discussing here today. It is such that motorised outlanding is initially illegal, and then we have a good deal of exceptions. Those exceptions are built over time. That is reason, but there are also requirements for exemption from strict legislation. It is also the case that we have a fairly high level of fines for those who break that law. What we are debating today is, in fact, a slight change in a large and strict set of rules, and the proposal is unlikely to have significant consequences. With that, I take up the solutions proposed by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e783	The representative of Runar Seestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e788	I am very pleased with the majority that the Progress Party is part of today. We are involved in simplifying, renewing and improving our society. With this proposal to amend the regulation on the use of scooters, we are involved in increasing municipal autonomy – bringing power and decisions closer to the people and closer to those affected. It's almost a shame that we had to go out of government to get it done. [[Laughter]] I have had many reactions, both from those who think the changes are positive, and from those who believe that the changes are devastating. Before my comrades let go, it's important to say that this change does not lead to any increased motor travel in the field. But it gives more opportunity for that, and also the ability to limit it. We give that confidence to our municipalities – a municipal sector that we have given responsibility for directing the training of our children, taking care of our elderly and managing child protection, but which we therefore do not give confidence in deciding about motor travel in the countryside. Many talk about the importance of municipalities, that decisions should be taken almost those affected. Now Storting has the chance to show that these are more than beautiful words. Or is it really that we just want to give the municipalities the opportunity to decide what we're not against? I'm not going to boast too much knowledge about government, but when the government is able to send out a consultation letter about a change of regulations that they are against, and which, on the other hand, has not yet been adopted, it seems a little strange, and I wonder a little about the motive. But when I read and see what the consultation letter contains, I understand why the majority today takes a settlement with the administration that is of existing laws. We want to get away from the different interpretations — the use of judgement that is to be reviewed by one or the other. We will end up running around with a separate document folder with different permits – for rental, driving, commercial. We want the municipalities to decide for themselves – decide how to travel for their own inhabitants, in their own country. And if the municipalities want to give permission for one year or four years, if they want a fixed trajectory or not, the municipalities themselves, alone, will have to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e799	This has been a rather special matter since Friday. As you know, it's not the first time the Center Party proposes to remove the requirement that it must be 2.5 km from the broken highway to the cabin so that people who own the cabin can drive the scooter to the cabin. Unlike the other times we have advanced this matter, the case now has a majority – with the votes of the Progress Party and the Labour Party. In the comments in the case as it is now, it is clear that this case is something the government parties are against. But what happened when the media started writing about the matter last week? Then the Right obviously panics. You cannot let the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Centre take credit for this matter. So on Friday, the government parties clearly found out that they are going to send the matter out at the hearing – a small, sweet manoeuvre to try to make people think that this is a proposal Right-wing supports. The reality is that the Right has voted down this proposal two years in a row, and today will do the same. The right has also produced this in the media as a proposal that has been promoted in order to advance the matter. I was even in the media and said that this was good – until I read the letter of consultation. When you read the consultation note that the government has sent out in this matter, there is nothing but a training session. In fact, the letter of consultation from the government states that a number of new requirements are to be introduced before the 2.5 km rule can be relaxed. Requirements are introduced for heavy equipment only to be carried. Then you have to ask what is defined as heavy equipment. Does the government intend to introduce a rule for how many kilograms is there to be on the scooter in order to be able to run the necessary equipment for the cabin? It is also clarified that this applies only to a few journeys per year and that strict control is to be introduced in the enforcement of the driving book. Our proposal is to remove the requirement of 2.5 km, so that municipalities can assess this and other requirements they would like to introduce through their own local guidelines. This will ease the bureaucracy and strengthen the right of self-determination of the municipalities, which is also one of the main points in this case. What the government is doing now is to introduce a huge bureaucracy towards municipalities when they want to change practice, by granting permits only for one season at a time. Today, municipalities practice this on their own and grant permits for four and five years at a time. So if, after the consultation round they've started, the government had to remove the 2.5 km requirement, it's a bunch of new demands to introduce, and we're going to be equidistant. I would like to refer to the proposals of the Central Party, and I would urge the Right to vote in favour of the two solutions proposed in this matter. It'll make a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e814	In winter, nature goes on sparebluss. Therefore, the use of snowmobiles was initially strictly regulated, but today's government has allowed more engine noise in nature, and today we are facing a new round where the silence, nature and open-air life become the losers. In the draft consultation that the government has sent out in connection with a similar change of rules that the majority of people want here today, we can read that in some parts of the country we can expect a significant increase in the number of authorisations for use of snowmobiles. This will particularly affect the vulnerable parts of nature. Snowmobiles are often used in periods where animals are particularly vulnerable. The late winter and early spring are a demanding period in terms of access to food, and it is an important period of reproduction. During these periods, the animals are particularly vulnerable to disturbance. I am not particularly surprised that the Central Party is promoting this proposal, although it is a little difficult to get wise on the party. Last year they thought it had to be 2.5 km from the broken road to the cabin in order to use snowmobiles. This year they won't have any limit at all. But the party that surprises me is the Workers' Party. They now welcome the proposal of the Centre Party, together with the Advance Party, and will leave it free to drive snowmobiles to the cabin if it is not located close to a broken road – right after an application to the municipality. One of the really big questions is, why this hurry? Now the snow melts in large parts of the country, and the snowmobile ride just gets worse and worse for every day that goes. Therefore, we could allow the outdoor organisations, the municipalities, nature conservation workers and others to say their own thing about this matter, which has also been sent out at the hearing of the government. One could have allowed democracy to function. The Motor Traffic Act is a law to ensure animals and peace in nature. This protection has been severely weakened in recent years. But why is it so urgent to weaken it even more? I do not understand why the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party will override the rights of the open-air, nature protection and local authorities to be heard in this matter. Why do they not want democracy to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e825	There has been a traditional debate about Easter times to deal with the legislation on motor travel in the field, and snowmobiles in particular have been the major theme in recent years. They get more and more power and longer reach and can of course also be a tool. But motor travel in the outland has, of course, been the subject of legislation, not least for animal and nature reasons, and actually for ourselves. Not everyone wants that noise inside of them. And that's not what Mr. Seestad said earlier in the debate, that we have a lot of exceptions. We are now simply removing a restriction, or, as the representative Sandra Borch said, a requirement, and that means that we are increasing the possibility of freeing and more use of snowmobiles. Then there has been consultation in this matter. It is a little unusual that the Stortinget intervenes in the middle of a hearing, and even more unusual is the fact that a person takes some of the responses to the hearing separately. This is about a geographically demarcated area in Norway, and in particular snowmobile organisations e.l. related to snowmobiles to eliminate the requirements, while the national organisations, such as Norsk Freiluftsliv, Norges Bondelag, DNT – and even KS, to which the Workers' Party and the Centre usually listen, with their many rapporteurs – are being translated into this case. I think that is a concern for so-called democracy, as I hear in this debate today. Some reason why we have national legislation relating to animals and nature is that when local interests to control a lot, national interests are not taken care of. It's a little strange that later today we're going to have a case of natural risk, when we're discussing the same day having fewer predators and more snowmobiles. I think that debate could start at some party offices instead of here in the storeroom. The joy is that there is a lot of technology that makes it possible to check out digitally, without so much human resources, that the legislation is complied with. National parks and others are developing technologies where you can search online, via your mobile phone, and you can get online approval. But it also means that you have to subject yourself to certain technological requirements, these days called stoppage, via an app.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e836	For nature and outdoor life, outland motor travel is strictly regulated. It also applies to the use of snowmobiles. The main rule is that motor vehicle outlanding is prohibited, and then there is a number of exceptions. The exemptions apply mainly to motor traffic to various types of utility, including: for the carriage of baggage and equipment for cabins which are not situated in the winter-broken road. Municipalities may, upon request, allow cabin owners to use snowmobiles when the cabin is at least 2.5 km from the broken road and when it is not possible to rent transport. The rule found in the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in off-road and on ice watercourses is intended to meet the transport needs of remote cabins in areas where there are not enough opportunities to rent transport. There has been a lot of debate on the 2.5 km rule in recent years, and there have been several representative proposals on this. On the basis of a proposal from a representative, send to the Ministry of Climate and Environment in December 2019 a proposal to clarify what we thought was right, namely that the 2.5 km should not be measured in the airline, but that one can take care of topography and natural conditions. The deadline for the hearing was 4 March of this year. The proposal that Stortinget is discussing today is aimed at removing the whole distance requirement. There was no part of the listener. The proposal also seeks to remove the requirement that the municipality can only grant permission if it is not possible to rent a transport service. This means that municipalities can grant permission to use snowmobiles for cabins even if there are only a few hundred meters to the cabin, and even if there is a rental run in the area. I mean, basically, it's a little bit lucky to make changes to the rules already right now, before we see the result of the hearing we've done. And I also think we should wait for new changes until we have evaluated the change in law that has already been made, that municipalities can establish snowmobile runs. The final report for the evaluation was expected this year. At the same time, I see that this proposal is likely to have multiples, and the same applies to the proposal to remove the requirement to run a lease. So I have already sent out this proposal on a general hearing, so that at all events it is technically possible to implement it before the next season, as I understand that the majority in Stortinget is busy. The proposal for which Stortinget was invited to decide will allow several cabin owners to use snowmobiles. How many we don't know. According to the SSB, it is approx. 440,000 cabins in Norway. We do not know how many of those who do not have access to the road, or who are therefore less than 2.5 km away from the broken road. The only thing we know is that this proposal will lead to more motor travel in the field. Many cabin areas are located in the most attractive outdoor areas we have. That's why the outdoors in particular are going to be able to get out of it badly. There may be conflicts between snowmobile trainers and skiers, and not least nature is too many a place for peace and quiet and for experiences free of traffic, and many experience scooter traffic as embarrassing. Not least nature and the animals that live there. In other words, it is in the nature of the matter that I am sceptical about this proposal. But we're a minority government. We stick to what the Storting decides, and of course also in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e855	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e861	We see that what we are dealing with today is not a general permit for everyone to drive equipment and materials for their own cabin. There is a possibility for the municipalities to grant that type of authorisation. Today, on the basis of given criteria and on the basis of their own assessments, municipalities either permit or do not allow driving to cabins located more than 2,5 km away from the broken road. Does it really mean that the municipalities are able to assess whether the benefits are there, whether the load is too high when the cabin is just over 2.5 km away, do they not have the same opportunity and condition to assess even when the cabin is closer?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e866	I think it's important to remember what's the starting point here. The starting point is not that it is free of engine travel in the field. The starting point is that this is not allowed. I don't understand that the Labour Party thinks we should have a different starting point for politics. If they think so, it is of course quite good to think that then the municipalities must be able to give permission to exactly what this might be of motor travel in terrain – wherever, at any time, completely independent of natural conditions, vulnerable species, outdoor life, etc. I don't think so. The representative should be required to do so, even if they are now in favour of liberalisation here. In that it is that I believe that the municipalities are well able to take a number of assessments here and should have a room for action, and there are different needs around the country. But I don't think it should be free for municipalities, because there's a lot of national concern here, and that's important, for vulnerable species, for domestic animals, for peace and quiet, for outdoor life. So some national leaders think we should have, and I don't think the Labour Party disagrees with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e873	I perceive that my line was met with a number of questions, so I should have asked for longer speaking time to answer all the questions. But I want to say that the Workers' Party is absolutely in favour of strict regulation. At the same time, we are too reasonable adjustments. This is one, it's a relatively small regulation change, it's a small adjustment, but it means too many. So we are in favour of restrictive scooter legislation, but we want amendments at the same time. Then I would like to ask: when you first choose to send the matter to the hearing so closely against the Stortinge to deal with it, why do you choose to impose so many restrictions and leads at the same time, so that it does not really open up to facilitate the everyday life of anyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e878	When I have chosen to send this matter on the phone, it is not something I decided to do right before Stortinget deals with the matter. When the committee presented its recommendation for a while back, I saw that there was a possibility of being a multiple for this. I understood that the Storting wanted this to come into force until the next season. In fact, there is a work to be done in a department to prepare hearing letters, assessments, and it has to come out. So I thought it was a little strange that the Storting reacted to the fact that I have arranged for it. If I had not done so, I found it difficult to see that it would be possible to do this at all before the next season, unless one at all is not interested in righting what outdoor organisations, business organisations and municipalities across the country had to think about the proposals that are being made here. I'm interested in knowing that. I am also obliged to make sure that I get knowledge of it. That is how we drive responsible democratic anchoring of decisions. And I think it's a little strange that more representatives somehow thought this was a strange thing to do by a council of states, I think it's the most natural thing in the world for a council of states to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e883	Self-employed people have major challenges in operating when snowmobiles are used, and they experience great restrictions. They stay today, among others. required to have different permissions for things for which they have been authorised, on their own and available, if checks were to be carried out. There may be rental permits, for the carriage of wood, for other commercial purposes. My question to the Council of State on whether the letter that the Council of State has now sent out to the hearing will lead to a simplification for the economic operators. And does the Council of State realize that this is a challenge, and that you can simplify that picture today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e889	I understand that it may be costly for many businessmen to have a lot of permission to do what they should do. At the same time, one also has some control needs that are real. We know, for example. that there is quite a large amount of illegal scooter running, and the way in which one controls it every year, is just to see if those who behave in a position with a scooter have the right to do so. Because we know that a lot of people are running illegal. It's a little hard to control unless you're too free or you don't have any permissions. At the same time, it is well in the time we live in, not unreasonable to expect such things to be something like this. may have on your mobile phone. To what extent it is practical to make sure that it can happen, I don't know, but it should be a relatively narrow case in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e893	When it comes to self-employed people, there's a lot of people who feel good about transporting people with snowmobiles, and it's quite possible to do it. It will probably be totally undermined for those who are engaged in business if you enter the scheme for which the majority now wants to enter. It doesn't have to be a decisive argument, but I don't know about the entrepreneurs who are currently making money on this, whether it's farmers or anyone else, will be very excited about the disappearance of the entrepreneurial income.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e896	I understand that the Council of State expects everyone who has a cabin today to go to the purchase of a snowmobile, and those who will try to do this in cooperation will labor with it. My question really concerns the subject on which the Council of State itself was involved, in view of a simplification such as this. may require a local authority to issue a driving licence containing a part of the activity, instead of a document folder containing an infinite number of permits in the different municipalities, which is highly inhibiting. Could the letter of consultation sent out by the Council of State lead to such simplification?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e901	It could, a little bit depending on what the final regulation looks like. Then I would like to stress that I understand that it is complicated for business to have to have different permissions and to have them with me. It is well possible to make such things easier than what is being done today in many municipalities. At least I'll encourage you to, that's an advantage. And then there's a reason why a lot of municipalities are making some demands in this context, and I assume that they'll continue to do it even if one were to remove the whole distance requirement. For example, requirements for the use of trasé may be quite reasonable given where there may be wildness in an area, which species attracts cows, where nature is most vulnerable, etc. In that context, I think it makes sense to demand a tracer for the use of snowmobiles. Now it will be up to the individual municipality not to give any guidance, but if I was a municipal politician, I would at least think it would be a good idea to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e908	As many have mentioned, we have noticed that the government has already sent the matter to the hearing, but with a number of new demands to be introduced before considering a reduction of the 2.5 km rule – requirements that restrict the autonomy of the municipalities. Among other things, municipalities are allowed to grant permits for only one year at a time. Does not the Council of State see what kind of huge bureaucracy he will impose on the municipalities to impose a claim on it, and is it really such that the Council of State wants a tightening of the regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e913	We've sent this out on the phone with some options that we're asking for feedback on. We look forward to getting them. I understand that the representative does not want there to be any alternative, and that everyone should be quite a few in what he himself thinks. But I think it's an advantage that you can have a good democratic conversation about this, and that the municipalities like this, after all, are allowed to mean something about it. This proposal has not been heard, nor have different variants of it. Then I thought it was fair and reasonable that the 356 municipalities in the country would be able to take a position and give me feedback. The same is true of the Norwegian Tourist Association, the association Norsk Freiluftsliv, the peasant organisations, the municipalities – so this resistance to giving them some options to decide on and the possibility to give feedback to us, I think I'm a little weird. But that's the way it is, and I look forward to hearing what they have to say, even though the representative is clearly not interested in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e920	In the newspaper’s online version, we can read the following opinion from former Minister for Climate and Environment, Ola Elvestuen: ‘Scooter-alian Ap, Sp and Frp will have full release. If this proposal goes through, there will be more engine noise in nature.» I fully agree with the opinion of former climate and environment minister Ola Elvestuen – just for saying so. At the same time, the current Minister for Climate and Environment of the Left has promoted an almost identical proposal for what we are discussing today. So my question is, why is the Left talking to two tongues in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e933	I can't believe we're doing that. On the contrary, I have said in my post and in the reply reply round about the same thing as the representative Ola Elvesuen says, that this proposal will lead to more engine noise in nature – unless no one can benefit from it. I doubt that, otherwise it would hardly have been a proposal. I mean, there's no doubt that's going to happen. I have said it directly that I am skeptical about this proposal. But I'm the Council of State in a minority government, and we're correcting ourselves after what the Big One is in favour of. We follow up what the Storting asks us to do, and so we've sent this proposal to the audience, so that we can get input from all of this actual getaway out there. So I don't think I and the representative Elvestuen are particularly disagreeable here. Nor do I believe that I and the representative Haltbrecken are, for that matter, but we must accept that not all are with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e940	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e947	It would be thought that this was a matter of coasting and slipping. It's not. This case is about people who want to go to the cabin. And if there's one thing we've been told in the last month, that cabin means a lot to people. It's not like everyone can go to or get on the cabin without the help, and the scooter is just such a tool. There are also not all the places you can drive to the cabin. It was said here by SV that they were so surprised by the Workers' Party. The working party has been completely consistent in this matter. We have tried to solve a problem now for several rounds in Stortinget. It hasn't worked out, and the government hasn't wanted to listen. Then I have to remind you that this country is quite different. Here you can go out in small shoes, while I was at home this weekend, I could wear ski shoes. So the spring is different, it's possible to still have winter fun, and in some places you're still dependent on scooters. So there's been a lot of commitment to this case, and we've been trying to solve it in a lot of ways. In fact, I am very pleased that the Advance Party has left the government. I think they should stay out of government forever, because then we actually get things done. So I think that's very good. Honor the Progress Party for agreeing with the Centre Party and the Workers' Party in this matter – hence the name of the scooter alliance. People are sorry. People are really upset that you don't listen to these kinds of problems. No, it is not the major world problems we are discussing now, but it is common people who have challenges in everyday life, and then we, as politicians, should listen to them. I want to say that this is a good day for local democracy. It's a good day for local involvement and for local penetration. As my good friend and leader of the Senja Workers' Party, Martin Ness, would have said: It is a good day for grassroots. Because you have to listen to the grassroots, and that is what we have done in this matter. I would like to congratulate all those who have stood by, on their persuasion. So I could say a lot about the Right and the government's small-fail proposals and try the last few days, but it's like if you agree, you should just vote with the majority. It could have been a good day, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e964	The size of the game today adopts a correct change that is a small step in the right direction, and that in no way is it the release that I record that someone is trying to present it as in the media and on the left side of the politics. We record that here the Ministry of Climate and Environment is exemplaryly effective. So they are sending out to the hearing a case that has not yet been decided by the Storting. Then I would like to add that if the Ministry of Climate and Environment had been as effective in the past, we would not have dealt with this matter at all today, because that is exactly what the problem is. The whole discussion about the air line or the actual running distance has brought this matter up and makes the Storting have to intervene now because they have drawn their legs – what I interpret as a reluctance in the Ministry of Climate and Environment to do something about this matter. It's important to remember a little bit about the story. The law on motor travel in the field was amended in the previous ageing period. It was promoted by the Right Party and the Advance Party of Government, and the Right Party and the Advance Party were united about it. It also got the support of the Center Party, which provided a majority for what was supposed to be a more liberal device of the law. Unfortunately, our experience is not like that, and once again, there is bureaucracy, obstacles and override that have become the fasit. Unfortunately, motor travel was not permitted in the outfield as liberal as the Stortinget actually wanted. That's exactly what the problem is. The Ministry has not delivered on what the Stortinget has asked for, neither in terms of the law on motor travel in the field, nor in this specific case, which is a small matter in the broad context, but important for those concerned. That's very strange. It's very strange that you can stand here and discuss and think that the municipalities can't make these decisions. It's kind of problematic that municipalities have to make as important decisions as it is if people are allowed to drive to the cabin saying or not on snowmobiles. The same municipalities that can take the children from their parents should not be allowed to drive with snowmobiles to the cabin or not. It's strange, and it just shows how hopeless this debate is. But history is important to remember. The Progress Party has been on a liberal scooter policy throughout history. We've also had the Right Party and the Center Party on it in the last period. Now we are cleaning up what is absolutely necessary, because the government and the Ministry of Climate and Environment have not delivered. It cleans up the Storting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e977	For a long time, the right in Finnmark has been working for increased local self-government, including with regard to the matter under discussion today. That is why I am pleased that the government has sent a consultation proposal to remove the 2.5 km distance requirement for the transport of snowmobile equipment to their own cabin. It's also a pleasure that it now seems to be a majority for this in the Biggest. The Right Party and the Advance Party proposed a decoration of the law as early as 2015, but did not then endorse the proposal. For most Finnmarkings, the cabin and the moving freely in nature is the symbol of the good life itself. Many report this as the reason why they choose to live in Finnmark. In North Norway, and in Finnmark in particular, we have snow large parts of the year. This winter has been no exception – the snow still lies well in Troms and Finnmark. That's what we call a real snowy year. When you invest in a cabin, most people want to use it as much as possible. Getting to the cabin, whether you're 85 or 3 years old, must be affordable as well as those winters there's a lot of snow. 2.5 km on foot or on skis in deep snow, with all the supplies and equipment, can become a raging journey for most of us. With the proposal which has now been put to the hearing, each municipality may make its own assessments. I record that many people in the north believe that this is the right way to go. Some have objections and fears more noise – and there are objections that are most relevant. For the Right, it is important that everyone should be heard and that democratic processes be properly followed. I have great faith that the municipalities also take this into account in their assessments and manage the rules properly. It will still be the case that the municipalities will have to grant a separate permit to each cabin owner following a separate application. Finally, I would like to commend the government that has sent out the proposal to remove the limit of 2.5 km. This will lead to the opening up of good and sensible solutions around the country as early as the next winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e988	I would like to point out that there are two additional suggestions in this room today. There is a deadline for applying the changes to the regulation, as well as for making sure that the changes to the regulations lead to simplifications in the legislation and increase municipal autonomy. The government party is concerned that when we send things out again on the phone, we listen to what municipalities and organizations want to record. We are also too much of local self-government and therefore we expect the municipalities to say before we decide today in advance, to process the way in which the regulatory changes are to be designed – as proposed by No. 2 is equal to 2. We hope that the municipalities will take the time to make good representations, which will provide appropriate wording in the regulation. When it comes to datuming the regulatory changes, we have confidence that the process is as effective as possible, as the Council of State also called for, so it will work well with the cases towards a regulatory change. We don't think it's useful to run detailed government management, as presented here, and we're confident that the government sees the value of keeping good progress, so that the changes will be put in place for a reasonable amount of time after the deadline has expired. In view of this, the government's party is going to vote against these proposals as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e999	This is a strange debate. Now many of the Right-wing representatives have been on the pulpit and have told us that finally we are strengthening local democracy, now it is going to become more local self-government, and this is a victory for local democracy. I can promise the Chamber that every local government representative in the Holtålen was quite shocked when they saw this draft hearing. This is a small liberalisation, which I naturally agree with, because I have been involved in promoting today's proposals. At the same time, there is a seven-eight restriction that is totally destructive to local democracy. It is devastating for the housing and business development of my home municipality, and it will lead to a severe deterioration in the value of those who have bought their cabin there. The combination of rentals and permissions for own cabins shall be refused. I have to demand that the baggage be heavier – how many kilograms there should be, I don't know. Quantity and equipment shall be required. It is proposed to limit the number of journeys and to reduce this number. The driving book shall be required and the municipality shall be required to draw a map. And not least, this should lead to a huge extra workload on the municipalities, because a new driving licence is to be applied for every single year. In my municipality we have 400–500 permissions to drive to our own cabin, in addition to 15 rental drivers, who do a good job. So instead of treating at the base of 100 runs, we're now going to treat at the base of 500 every year. These cabins rarely move. It is rarely a change of ownership, and the change of ownership automatically disappears, and a new owner has to search. It makes no sense that we should spend bureaucratic resources on something like 'tullat'. When it comes to combining rentals and permits for own cabins, it is a matter of course in many municipalities. With us it would not work at all if we could not continue that practice. Some claim that this is a practice contrary to the law. Then, in the case of the County of Southern Trundellag, we've been sleeping for the last 30 years, because we've been practicing this for 30 years, and it's worked perfectly well. If we weren't going to continue with that combination, we would have to say that we don't have rental practices in the municipality. Those who do not have their own scooter would then completely lose the possibility of accessing a rental driver. For it is not that 15 hire drivers can drive for 500 pieces on Friday before the palm weekend and Friday before the winter holidays. That's not how this works in practice. If you had 50 tenants to distribute it, there would be nothing left for anyone. No one would be responsible for being available, if there was nothing left of it. This is a violent attack on local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1010	I think the president would point out that even though trundish is a colorful language, the word 'tullat' may not be all the way inside. It is in the same category as ‘customs duties’, ‘customs duties’ and ‘customs’ which have previously been charged by the President. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1015	That is what it will be when we have many district representatives up in the pulpit! Even I come from a colorful part of the country in that way, but I'm going to think about it today, and say that today there's every reason to enjoy the expression that comes in this room, by being a solid and broad majority to strengthen local democracy in the field of motor travel. There have, of course, been different approaches and arguments in this case, but there is no doubt that at least government parties have been working for a long time for increased local autonomy in many questions. And when we sent this matter to the hearing last week, it's because of course we're going to help get the best possible regulation. I am, along with my party, a big fan of the fact that we are getting a strengthening of local self-government. I believe that what this really boils down to is that we recognize the great differences that exist around the municipality of Norway. There are, for example: not in my county very many large cabin fields with paved roads, where you can drive up his SUV and park outside the door, and where you have installed water and electricity. You don't have it. That, on the one hand, we should say: it's okay, just roll out the asphalt, dig up the ditch, build heavy cabins, lay out the infrastructure, while we're in Troms, and who have a long way between the walls of the house – you might have an outing, and if you're lucky, you have a solar panel on the roof – you should span on us the skis, bring a bag with you and bring us a lot of food, because it's far to a broken road – that I think is a lack of respect for that diversity and the variation we have in this country of ours. That's why I think it's absolutely right, and wise, that we give this opportunity to the municipalities, that's to look at the need you have. Because it's different around. I believe that in the context of the change that has now been sent to the hearing, it is necessary that we try to obtain a hearing response that provides a simple rule. I am very much in favour of this not giving extra bureaucracy. I belong to those who agree that it's quite illogical to have to search every year, all the time you have the same cabin, the owner is the same, and you have the same need to get up, either on weekends or on Easter holidays, to use a cabin, whether you're old or young, or you're a family father with kids on tow. It's really just about having respect for the fact that we're going to make use of our cabin, that we're going to make use of our outdoor life. And this isn't a free slip. Those who believe it have misunderstood. This is simply as simple as giving the municipalities the opportunity to give the owner of a cabin the opportunity to use it. So this is really easy. Therefore, I also hope that the legislation will be as simple when it is implemented in a regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1028	When there has finally been a majority at Stortinget to remove the distance requirement of 2.5 km in snowmobiles, and the government has already sent new proposals on it at the hearing, many of us will call a good day at work. There are actually a lot of people who are very happy and satisfied with it. This has been a very important topic for the Right for a long time, there can be no doubt about it. Many of us have actually worked for many years to get better solutions to this. And so it's only now that there's been a majority on Stortingen to change the engine traffic code in outland at this point. Today's legislation has been too rigid and inadequately adapted local conditions. The municipalities are different, very different, and the needs are different, and the rules have to be taken into account. There's a lot of commitment among people around the rules of snowmobile racing, not only in my region of Trøndelag, but in large parts of District Norway. As the representative Gudmundsen was in, we are talking about areas of the country where Hytte-Norge is still characterized by scattered settlements, where the cabins have neither winter road, electricity nor water and sewerage – i.e. standards that are far from what we see many places in the country in more central areas, in the form of cabin urbanisation. Very many people use the fields and mountains for leisure purposes. It is part of the leisure culture to do so, and you use snowmobiles in connection with your stay in the cabin in winter. It concerns the transport of materials, equipment, supplies, wood, etc. The values of this simple cabin life are actually something we want to support, even for new generations, and now it's going to be much easier for more people than it is today, to use their cabins in winter time. That's good. I am very pleased that local autonomy can be strengthened in this area. It has been an important matter for the Right. We have been a driver for it both in this case and in general. I hope that the municipalities in this round of hearings will provide clear feedback, and that we will have an effective process, so that regulatory changes can be implemented as quickly as possible. Getting new regulations in place so that even until the next winter you can get more sensible rules for the use of snowmobiles between the cabin and the road, regardless of distance, is joyous. It's a big step forward that'll make the cabin life more accessible to more people, increase the quality of life and lively and attractive in large parts of District Norway, and it's very happy. It should also be enjoyed in some of the parties that have gone high on the track, and that know how demanding such matters can be in government. One should rather enjoy it than focus on criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1043	I can initially mention that I was on the mountain this weekend with snowmobiles, in the same way that large parts of the population in the north. In my home region of Finnmark, use of snowmobiles is outdoors; it's community; it's recreation and it's not least culture. You take family and children on a trip – including those who are not normally on a trip – and in some extreme cases also the in-law family. I can report amazing conditions with several meters of snow. On the mountain in the north there is still full winter. To quote Arthur Arntzen, it takes several good summers to be able to thaw this snow. The Progress Party is in favour of the liberalisation of the scooter policy. Today's decision is a small step in the right direction, where we move decision-making power to local democracy. We're simplifying, we're renewing, and we're improving. I am very pleased that the majority Progress Party is part of today, which allows local self-government to grant a derogation to use snowmobiles for cabins that are not connected to the bridged highway, although the cabin is closer than 2.5 km. We did not get it when we were in government, as the representative Halleland was in. Neither did the Workers' Party nor the Centre's party when they were in government. So it's very good that we can now form a political majority for these proposals – when all three parties are out of government. The Progress Party is in favour of further liberalisation of the scooter policy and has great expectations that the Workers' Party and the Centre will also support further simplification and improvement in the future when we continue to work on this. Today’s decision is a victory for local democracy. The Progress Party believes that in a local democracy it is those who have the best knowledge of local conditions who are best placed to assess whether or not to be allowed. I must conclude by saying that it is disappointing that the Right, together with the Advancement Party, proposed an embellishment in 2015, has today turned around and voted against the proposal and against giving better destination to local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1059	I would like to say, as my colleague, Mr Haltbrecken, that it is not surprising that the Central Party makes such proposals, or that the Progress Party, above all, makes such proposals. We've seen it in all transport operations. It has been speed and excitement, to land and to water and – I was saying – in the air. This, in many ways, characterises the high castle of liberalism in the transport sector, the Progress Party. But that we've got an alliance between the Center Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party is search. It's hard to swallow. I have to say that if that's how we're going to take up the fight, by competing on liberalism out in the open, it's sad. That there's a loser here, there's little doubt about it. It's nature. And then it's actually those who want a single outdoor life. These losses are those that operate outdoors in Norway in a more traditional way, i.e. not motorised. For this is a serious matter. It's a range that's larger than you know in the first place. If that's how you get less driving, as it was said – I think it was the Center Party that mentioned it – then it's a strange analysis. All the outdoor organisations say the opposite. Is there no respect for the judgment of these organizations? No one thinks there's going to be less running of this, right? There'll be a lot more. No matter how you turn around and turn it around: Do you have a scooter and go to a cabin: – I'm just going up to my cabin, I'm coming from my cabin. It's very hard to control. It's almost hopeless. It's hard to avoid calling this something other than an approximate release at least. So there's some points here that have to be mentioned. One is also Mr Haltbrecken mentioned – vulnerable nature in the spring. I've been a lot out there in the spring, and I've been a lot in the mountains where snowmobiles are current, and I've been on the block of wildrein, tamrein, elk and other game that's completely on the blush. They're all on the rim. The last energy is in the spring – in April, May and perhaps in June in the north they are very vulnerable. The last point I want to make is that if we liberalise snowmobile traffic, we get a new pressure on cabin construction in Norway. Now it's easier to build a cabin a little further from the road, remember it! We already have almost 500,000 cabins. This is a point we're going to take with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1070	I have to say it's a bit strange view we're witnessing today – a strange view where the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Centre seem almost disappointed that the government is implementing their proposal before it's adopted in the Stortinget. I would be happy if the government had listened to all the good environmental proposals SV is promoting, before they were adopted in Stortinget. I should have used that opportunity to cheer from the Stortinge pulpit, but instead we get a political game from the three parties, where they are dissatisfied with the government doing as they say. It's amazing. And then we'll hear that the snow still lies north – yes, it does. The snow is still in Trøndelag. But none of the representatives who have spoken about it have proposed that this regulation should enter into force tomorrow. No, they have today proposed that the regulation should enter into force on 1 October. Then I think we've had a summer in the north as well, and that it's been pretty bad snowmobileing, so I have to say those arguments are relatively thin. We hear from the Labour Party representative Cecilie Myrseth that this is not a release. No, well, maybe the Workers' Party can tell us how many more than before it is that will now be allowed to apply to use snowmobiles for cabins – or to use the Workers' Party's rhetoric: How few are the ones that will be allowed to do that? Today, when proposals are being made to ensure that this amendment will not apply until 1 October, why not take the time to listen to democracy and make it work? The hearing period set by the government is at the beginning of August. You could have let democracy work here, you could have taken the recordings that come from the municipalities, from the outdoor organisations and from others, but instead you choose to ignore it completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1081	To the representative Haltbrecken why we do not choose this to be started today: If the Haltbrecken had looked on the calendar, it is May 5 today, and according to the Motor Travel Act, it is May 5 that is the last day of dispensation – it may have a certain connection with that. It is claimed that this is a complete release, and that there will be a lot of nonsense, a lot of illegal driving and a lot of noise in nature. There's no way how many plagues there should be with this. Are there many people who have been taken for customs and illegal driving – on all mountains and with a hanger carrying luggage? I would have liked to see that statistics. In my municipality, there is at least no one who is taken for customs driving with a trailer. As we all know, it is mandatory to drive with a trailer, it is not allowed to operate a passenger transport service. You only drive with luggage, possibly with additional space. It's not this crowd that's driving customs anywhere in the country. Then it was said that it was a threat to the wild. Last I checked, the wild train was mostly in national parks and a part in landscape protection areas. And the last time I checked, both landscape protected areas and national parks were subject to a completely different motor travel regime than what we are discussing here today, which is what the municipalities are all over for today. This is a crisis maximisation that has no root in reality. To the representative Agdestein, who made a very good contribution here today: I agreed with everything, except that the hearing opinion was what we have proposed here in the Chamber. It's definitely not. There is one liberalisation in that hearing opinion, and then there are seven intrusions, which I will in no way be involved in. So I encourage the representative Agdestein to explain what she thinks about the intensifications in that hearing opinion: it should be prohibited for municipalities to continue today's practice of combining rentals and permits, there should be a requirement for weight on baggage, there should be a requirement for quantity of baggage, there should be a requirement for municipalities to limit the number of trips to a minimum, there should be a requirement to impose a driving book, there should be a requirement to impose a running map – and the municipalities should be plagued to process the applications every year instead of every five years, as it is today. Does the representative Agdestein think it is a strengthening of local democracy, or does she think it is a weakening of local democracy? From the Council of State, I would like answers as to whether he promises to follow up proposal No. 2 today. In this case, all the proposals in the consultation opinion, except for the 2.5 km limit, are completely impracticable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1094	I would like to remind the representative, Mr Greni, that the proposal, which is part of the proposal for a representative and which is in the Committee's position, is contained in the letter of consultation sent out at the hearing. It is true, however, that the representative Mr Greni also pointed out that there are other options that are also included in that letter of consultation. It is now important that the municipalities, which, after all, will manage this new legislation once the regulation has been confirmed, give their clear feedback. I'm going to be honest that I'm a supporter of the first option, for the simple reason that I trust that the municipalities within that diversity, which I was in my first post, will find good local solutions. I hope the community sector agrees. I have every reason to believe that it is when you look at the consultation round that was conducted earlier this year, where the municipalities were completely unsolicited – even if it was not asked – that this 2.5 km rule has been unnecessary and very bureaucratic and does not meet the need and the variation that others have experienced in this room. What made me take the floor was that the representative Strifeldt claimed that the Right has turned the case around. Then – with respect to reporting – I have to be allowed to say that it is so far from the truth that you can come. If there are some parties – now I'm going to be rough back – that have stood together and had a one-sided view on this matter since the 2000s, it's the Right and Advance Party. We promoted a number of representative proposals during the red-green period, and one of the first things we did as the Right-wing-Fremskritsparte-regiering was to promote a proposal to change the law in Stortinget. We also secured a majority on a number of points together with the Center Party when the Committee's position was finally discussed here in the Stortinget in the new year 2015. The law was in Stortinget the year before, in 2014. It is worth noting that in the negotiations and the work done in the Committee, the Right and the Advance Party proposed to reduce the 2.5 km limit to 0.5 km. It was not possible to get through for that. There were no majority comments that gave the government clear instructions to reduce this distance. As a result, the Right Party and the Advance Party stood alone in this case. In the past, we have discussed how to understand this 2.5 km limit. It has always been the reason why it should be actually a mess, which was also the background to the regulation we sent to consult earlier years. Let it be clear: any proposal that has been put to the hearing removes the 2.5 km limit. I am in favour of having strong local democracy, which preserves the diversity that is out there. To those who are critical and point to free driving: I have many times explained why this is not – it is a matter of reason. I wonder if SV had been for motor travel in the outfield if the snowmobiles had been electrical and silent.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1109	It's not often I boast of the Center Party and the Workers' Party, at least not both parties at the same time, but today I actually feel a little need for it. It is a pleasure to see that both the Center Party and the Workers' Party now want to liberalize driving with snowmobiles. Traditionally, it is only the Progress Party and the Centre Party that have a liberal approach to the use of snowmobiles, and consequently it is also gratifying to see that the Workers' Party also supports the proposal of the Centre Party, so that it now becomes a majority to give municipalities full freedom to decide whether to use snowmobiles for cabins, regardless of the distance to the cabin – whether it is above or below 2.5 km from the nearest motorway. The municipalities are now given greater autonomy, so this is a joyous day for local democracy. After seven years of good cooperation in government with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, I have to say that it feels a little unnatural to be on the same side – to say it like this – as the Workers' Party and the Center Party. But when both SV and MDG are opposed to the proposal and support the government, the alarm clocks ring. Maybe they should do that for more people. The regulation that now changes is from the 1980s, and it's very good to say about the 1980s. Even when I was a youth, there was a lot of good music that I think it's worth taking care of, but this rule that's being scrapped today is absolutely not worth taking care of. So this is very positive. It is pointless to have a completely arbitrary and artificial limit with requirements for distance from the road to the cabin in order to be able to drive snowmobiles or not and to carry baggage or not. Today's artificial frontier has led to a lot of bureaucracy, led to a lot of coincidences, led to a lot of discrimination and injustice, and it is now over. Making it easier to drive snowmobiles to the cabin is important for many cabin municipalities around Norway. I am convinced that there will be positive ring-effects for more communities, will be positive for travel life and can lead to increased cabin construction, increased value creation and, not least, increased life satisfaction for the individual. The fact that you can get on the cabin more easily, and that it makes it easier to bring everything from luggage to mother-in-law, will hopefully lead to more families being able to use their cabins more, and that they get to spend more on the good life, both on the cabin, in the woods and in the mountains – just what SV basically is also very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1120	The President will carefully suggest that most things may soon be said. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1125	I don't know if it was a coincidence, since I came up... but: This, as we decide today, is a slight change in a very comprehensive code, but it's a change that means a lot to a lot to a lot of cabin owners. [[Laughter]] I responded that some in this room said this would lead to a lot of illegal scooter driving. It sounds to me like you're cutting everyone over a comb. It's not like a family of children who go to a cottage on weekends use the weekend to drive a wildman in the mountain – it's not like that. You have to take into account the realities in which group of people this is actually about. This concerns cabins that are scattered in the terrain. There are outdoor cabins, without internal current and without water. This must be one of the best things we do for the climate and nature, because the alternative to those who are not allowed to drive scooters to the hut of winter, is that they will have to build the road to the cabin, which is a much larger intervention in nature. I notice that the Council of State is busy listening to the municipalities, and that therefore he has already sent the matter out at the hearing with a very wide consultation period. It is a little special that, in major, in-depth cases such as regional reform and judicial structures, consultation is urgent in a short time – in this case, however, it is taking time. However, there has already been consultation on the law on motor travel this year, and nearly three-quarters of the hearing replies are about removing the 2.5 km rule. So the municipalities have already given a lot of input into this case. Then I notice right-wing posts in this case, and they are hiding behind the hearing that has now been sent out. But the reality today is that the Right vote against all the proposals that are being discussed in the Stortinget – concrete proposals that would have given clear instructions to the government. This is a good day for many tenants, and it is thanks to the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the proposal of the Central Party, which will have a majority today. Fortunately, we're not dependent on the Right to get a majority in this case. Last year, the Right in this room promised that this change would be in place within a year, and I told a representative sitting in this room, that it happens, I'm going to invite you to a cake party. Yes, tomorrow the Right can go out and grab a tomb when the tipping points open, and then I can invite the Advance Party and the Workers' Party to the cake.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1140	I know who wasn't invited to that cake, and I'm happy to go to a cake party. I don't know if I have what I would call'something new' to say, but I'm going to say it anyway, because this case is a lot of people who care, and it's important for those who have engaged. It is an important day for local democracy, for local politicians and for people who have engaged. This debate is actually going directly to folkebladet.no, and I can promise you that not all of the big debates are creating the same commitment, so we're going to be happy for that as a college. There's still going to be a strange debate when the Right is real, really for – yes, they've been for a lot of money – but they're not too exactly like this, because they don't want to control the government in detail. It is good that they have had their backs to stand behind, because it has been sent out a consultation proposal. And the representative Olli refers to the penetration of the Right in a proposal from the Central Party, which they will also vote against. Yes, this is going to be a strange debate. The left is just amazed in the matter, amazed that you don't listen, amazed at the Workers' Party – amazed that you don't listen to KS, has even been said. It's the same party that drew a regional map on a back room. Then we could have talked about involving local democracy. So this is a good thing, where we've got the Progress Party on the team, and I'm saying that very rarely. It is not that we agree with the Progress Party in the scooter policy in general – it is not that the Workers' Party wants complete release of scooters. But scooters aren't criminal, and we can't talk about it like that either. SV wonders whether the working party is not occupied with the outdoors, it is able to go in silence on skis or on a trip without hearing engine noise. Well, we are, we're busy doing it, but we're also concerned that there are many others who need a scooter to get on the cabin. There are some problems that we can solve, and it's possible to get to both of them. It's the Workers' Party for: getting to both of them. So I am very happy that we finally solved this matter, even though the Storting had to instruct the government to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1153	This is a strange debate. One would think, when one hears the debate, that this is about full release of scooter driving. I just want to say that the right to go in the mountain without motorized from snowmobiles is not being changed. But enforcement will be considerably easier for municipalities. There'll be more fair and less bureaucracy. It will still be very easy to check that it is driving into its own cabin. You have an approved trachea, and if you're outside it, you drive illegally. In the case of rental today, there may be twice as many trips to the cabin than after a change in the legislation, because you first have to go back and forth, and then you have to go back and forth again after picking up. Today the rules are so that if you break the road into the cabin, you can drive as much snowmobile as you like. Opening recreational loops has changed the image completely in terms of snowmobile running. If you're lucky and have a cabin on the loop, you can drive all the way to the cabin wall if it's less than 30 meters away. On the other hand, if the cabin is 170 metres away, you have to park 140 metres away from the cabin and walk the last meters, but you can still drive as much as you like in the public loop. In some areas, there is a cabin area where half of the cabin area has its own snowmobiles into the cabin, while the other half does not have it, due to the distance rules. We today experience that there are fewer cabins that need snowmobiles to get on the cabin, all the time being built more. Therefore, rental is also less attractive. The landowners will continue to have the full and full right and obligation to authorise motor traffic over their property. No authorisation shall be granted until the owner of the land has authorised it, and any amendment to the rules of distance will not undermine that right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1176	I have to say it was a little special to hear the representative Myrseth's last post after the reverse operation the Workers' Party has had in this matter. We who have been with a few years know a little about it – who it is that has really changed the policy. It was the representative of Greni who challenged me at the hearing and at the local democracy. It is not true, as Mr Greni claimed, that the proposal to be put to the House today has not been put to the hearing. That's it. As the representative Gudmundsen explained, it has been sent to the hearing, as well as another alternative. I'm also a follower of the simple. The simple is often the best, in line with what the Right has meant throughout all the years. But now we want to hear the views of the municipalities, in line with good process requirements. I am not afraid of any release in this matter. I am also not afraid that there will be serious environmental consequences. It is also the case that snowmobile technology actually evolves, with lower emissions and lower noise. People out there are very happy in nature. I know that after spending a lot of years in tranny mountains. People want to take care of important natural values. As many people have been involved, I think we should rather look at the extent to which the urban cabin culture places strong environmental footprints in nature and represents a load far greater than the perhaps slightly increased traffic of snowmobiles in the district of Norway. I'm not afraid of it. I think this is going to be a really good solution that very many people will be happy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1186	The representative, Kent Gudmundsen, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1191	When I heard that I didn't get cake, I almost had to take the word, but I was the one who promised it. What I think is regrettable is really the double communication that the centre party is obviously doing in this case. When the representative, Borch, says that this was a regulatory change to be fixed – as if what you had just sent out at the hearing was to remove the 2.5 km requirement – it just shows that you are smoothly ignoring and mixing the distance with what was the question just a year ago, that is, how to calculate 2.5 km – the airline or actually the trajectory. That's what we debated a year ago, and that's what was going on at the hearing, and that's why the municipalities sent some answers that make us follow up with a new regulatory change, which is to remove this whole distance requirement. It's actually the way we're in government. We don't have to ask our own government to start a work that's already in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1198	The President said that most things must have been said soon in this debate. I agree so much that I will start by repeating something I said in my previous post. [[Laughter]] It is such that any debate about the use of snowmobiles and other outdoors is marked by being polarized and normative. There are heated debates about whether you are in favour of, or against, the use or amendment of laws and regulations. Too often we see tendencies to exaggerate the consequences of any decoration or adaptation. Full release and liberalisation are what is mentioned first. I'm not going to claim to be the new Snowman, but I think I got a little right. [[Laughter]] It's not about release and liberalisation, it's about a little decoration. It sounds like the snowmobile's about to take over everything. That's not how it feels out there. On the contrary, we find that the County often tightens up, instructing the municipalities to tighten up the practice of exemptions. It is also the case that the municipalities with established loop networks, with legally approved loops, have been required to have a full review under the Planning and Building Act, which causes our municipalities to incur millions of expenses. A lot of people are trying to distinguish between those who use nature properly and those who use it wrong. If you go and you're sweaty, you use it right. If you drive scooters – those who have been stuck in the water know that you get reasonably sweaty too, and you get a natural experience of the rare. [[Laughter]] It's like a lot of people have scooters, but they're also members of an open-air organization, so that doesn't mean that you necessarily have full agreement there. Privately, I have two skis and one snowmobile. Many people use nature in many different ways throughout the year. It's not like people are out only when they can run scooters. I think there's room for everyone, and I wish there was also more freedom and space in the debates around snowmobile use. I think everyone would be good at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1211	Now this president has not followed the whole debate, so he must say that he appreciates a little repetition of the essence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1216	Never before has a government party been so happy to be downcast as today – when you listen to the Right. And I think it's real. Because we know where this disagreement goes. It does not go between the Right and the Advance Party, the Labour Party and the Center Party on the other side. It goes between the right and the left. It's probably an internal struggle in the government we see a rash of here. When we talk about the history here, about who meant what, when, first and all of this, I just want to remind you that I think I'm one of them here in this room who was at first out proposing a liberalisation of scooter traffic. It happened 12 to 15 years ago, along with my party. There has been a constant struggle for the Progress Party, and I am very happy that this small matter – important enough for those concerned – is getting a majority today. Then you shouldn't pretend that, as I see some people do, that this is something you've always meant to do. The previous government did nothing with the law of motor travel in the outfield. Rather the opposite – it made it harder. It was a government that the Center Party was in. There was probably a little drag fight in the government, we can imagine, between the Center Party and SV. Now it's between the right and the left. Let's be a little sober in the middle of it all: here are many who want this liberalisation, and I ask the question: If the Workers' Party had known that the Progress Party was going to be in the process of defeating the government in this matter – because that's what it's about, the government is going to have a defeat in this matter – I'm not sure that they had supported the proposal today. I'm not sure. I'm not convinced. Because it is – again – a political game. But let's put the political game aside and note that today we're actually making a change that helps make life easier for people out there in the districts who want to get to the cabin say in a simple and straightforward way. I will venture the claim that had this been a problem issue that pertained to Frogner and Oslo west, this had been solved a long time ago, simply. But now we're doing something about it. That's good, and then we're going to have to add the side of history. Today, the majority is making a wise decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1231	The representative, Heidi Greni, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1236	The representative Rodum Agdestein is once again trying to create the impression that what has been sent to the hearing is the same as what we are adopting here today. I challenged the state council in my previous post – I try again: Can the state council confirm that what we are now adopting here today, where the government asks the government to ensure that the regulation leads to simplifications in the legislation and increased municipal autonomy, is followed up? Or can we risk what the government proposes in the consultation draft, with severe restrictions on driving both for those who have a cabin within the 2.5 km limit, and for those who have a much longer cabin away, for example. with a few trips, with a refusal to have a driving licence in combination with a driving hire, with the imposition of a driving licence and with the processing of the driving licence every year? Can the Council of State confirm that there is no threat for municipalities to live in uncertainty about the next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1241	Norway's only liberal party has not dominated this debate – it is they who want liberalisation that has done. According to my concepts, this debate on liberalisation is not at all, or about a liberal ideology, but I'm not going to say what I'm thinking about it. In this debate, however, I think that, among other things. The last speaker, the representative Heidi Greni, must take on board the fact that one facilitates the maintenance of today’s legislation by municipalities or adopts a more stringent one. The representative Johnsen, from the Inland, had probably heard a lot about Modern Talking and was excited that we are now in favour of liberalisation, but in the hearing opinions I have seen, there are certainly no municipalities from the Inland that support that one should remove that border, so the district municipalities of the Inland, which have great distances, and which have snowmobiles – we south too – do not want such a change. The battle in these debates has actually failed, and therefore the Council of State cannot guarantee the demand for what is now adopted in the municipalities. There will be an exciting debate around the many municipalities. To the extent that local democracy gets those tasks, I'm afraid. As a local democratic party, the Left is committed to the responsibility of the municipalities, and to making decisions as close as possible to the inhabitants, but one must also include some national leaders in those debates, because if the consequence is that there are increasing numbers of snowmobiles in nature and fewer predators, at some point in time the national legislative assembly will reenter. It is a boomerang in this debate that will come back at some point.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1250	Of course, I and the government follow up everything the Storting had to want to adopt, including the point to which the representative Greni refers. But that's probably what the representative, Kjeseth, refers to, that no matter how you do this, there will still be considerable room for municipalities to make the demands they want, so some guarantee that all bureaucracy will only evaporate, with a source in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, but that municipalities will not have room to do as they want, I can't give. But I want to follow up on everything the Storting does, and I also think there'll be room to be because we've sent out different options on the hearing, so that we can get feedback from these that it actually concerns, the municipalities. Otherwise, at the end of the debate, I would like to thank you very much and I am almost getting enthusiastic input from many representatives. It is good to see that representatives from both the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and the Centre are so happy to be exempt from government responsibility and to find together in harmony. It will be inspired, if necessary, by future accumulation periods – it seems to be fun for everyone involved. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1257	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1273	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity to change lines will be given with up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1280	I want to start by thanking the Committee on Cooperation in this matter, which is about lead pollution. Lead is acutely toxic to aquatic organisms and mammals. Chronic lead poisoning can damage the nervous system, kidneys and blood-forming system in animals, damage fertility and harm to breast-fed infants. Therefore, the Food Authority advises pregnant people not to eat wild shots with lead hail. In Norway, lead ammunition is the main source of lead emissions. After Stortinget lifted the ban on this type of ammunition in 2015, emissions naturally also increased. Three proposals are presented in the vote we are debating today. In the proposal for a recommendation, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Green Party, asks the Government to draw up a programme for the analysis of lead content on and around all outdoor shooting paths and to investigate possible collection methods for accumulated lead. In addition, the Party of Workers, SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens ask the Government to investigate solutions for the collection of lead during shooting on shooting lines and to investigate the use of such collection solutions. And the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens are asking the government to phase in a ban on lead-containing hunting ammunition, as we had until 2015, and to launch an investigation into the timing of such a ban. Lead and lead compounds are included in the environmental authorities’ priority list of substances of concern for health and the environment. Until last year, the priority list of substances was to stop emissions by 2020. But now we are in 2020, and quietly, the government has removed 'by 2020' from the objective – that is, the goal of being by 2020. Greens believe that environmental pollutants, including lead, need to be regulated more stringently than today. Permitting lead ammunition discourages pregnant people from eating game and poisons animals and nature. We are therefore voting to reintroduce the ban on leaded ammunition. It is also thoughtful that the Workers' Party proposed to lift the ban on lead ammunition in 2015, and I remember that very well. About the same time, other Labour Party representatives asked for an action plan for a non-toxic day-to-day life. So it's not easy to see a consistency in the environmental policy of the biggest party in Storting. The Greens have previously proposed, among others: national regulations on priority pollutants pending stricter international legislation. We want to introduce content labelling requirements for products with pollutants to make it easier to choose them away. Both proposals were voted down in Stortinget. Emissions and distribution of pollutants are a serious problem that had deserved a stronger political searchlight, and I hope that several parties can contribute to the future. First of all, I would like to thank Mr SV for this draft representative. With that, I would like everyone to have a good debate and to address the proposals on which the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1303	The representative of Une Bastholm has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1308	Lead was included in the 1997 priority list of authorities. The aim is to continuously reduce emissions and use of the substance in order to stop emissions. One thing is to stop emissions, but in addition, we might have to look at opportunities to reduce, collect and clean up after previous years' use. Lead-containing ammunition accounted for approx. 67 pst. of the total lead emissions in 2017. Leadhagl was banned in Norway from 2005 and leadhagl emissions were low for several years. However, in February 2015, the Storting lifted the general prohibition and it is now allowed to use lead hail for hunting on specified species that do not belong mainly to wetlands. Lead-haul for hunting geese in inland areas is also allowed. In 2017, almost 60 tonnes of lead hail was imported into Norway. Norway’s Hunters and Fishermen’s Association has started work to facilitate a full survey of the shooting routes of the local hunters’ and fishermen’s associations. Such monitoring will provide a good starting point for an overview of any pollution challenges that should be addressed. It is very positive that there is a link with the shooting path register of the Voluntary Sniper Service and that the information contained in this register will also be available to the administration. We see that local resistance to established target areas is increasing. The population has come closer and closer to many of the existing shooting areas, and then it is important to do this job, and to trust that you will not release that type of poison in the local environment. Then it is not good to see the headlines in the media in the last few days that show that despite the ban, tons of lead-containing ammunition have been used on approved shooting tracks. Norway is far ahead of the EU in this matter, but there is no reason for us to slow down. On the contrary, I believe that the ban that the EU is about to introduce will lead to a larger market for alternative ammunition, to the creation of ammunition that does not pollute lead, and to an increase in consumption in such a way that the price also goes down. So I want to say to the Progress Party and the Center Party, which has a sentence here that the government should not ‘estimate restrictions or other measures that could negatively affect hunting and sports shooting until full alternatives are widely available’. The full options are already available. It's probably a little bit about price, but it's completely possible to find alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1325	I would like to thank the rapporteur and – once again – the Committee for Good Cooperation. We have an action plan on pollutants, and developments that are right for most of the priority substances, and it is international legislation that is the most important and effective instrument in the fight against pollutants. We have just been through a long debate where it was expected that we should ask the government to do something the government has already done – and we are in the same situation there, because in the EU there are now new processes of phasing out lead. Norway is ahead of these processes in the EU. But in any case, due to the EU Reach Directive, the implementation of legislation will also apply in Norway. So we know that Norway's Hunters' and Fishers' Associations have started work to facilitate a full monitoring of the shooting routes of the local hunters' and fishermen's associations, and such monitoring will provide a good starting point for an overview of any pollution challenges that should be followed up. Then I will finally add that training for hunting, shooting competition, compulsory shooting in connection with the hunting test, shooting test for big game hunters – all this is the desired activity. We have a healthy and good hunter and fisherman culture in Norway, and it's because we're a people who are used to using nature. We must preserve this culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1336	Then I will repeat very much of what the representative Heggelund said. It is basically not so much different to say about these proposals than they are at work, that there will be regulations on the use of lead-containing ammunition, and that there is no need to carry out own investigations. But I think, like Heggelund, that I want to say that hunting and shooting is a positive activity that many people do, and it's an activity that we still want to have – whether it's competition shooting, hunting, hunting or the annual shooting test. For the Progress Party, it is important to maintain this activity and it is important that no restrictions are imposed until full alternatives are available. And to the representative, Sekstad, yes, there are alternatives. There's a lot to go about about alternatives, and not least about price. At the same time, I want to commend Norway's Hunters' and Fishermen's Associations for the work they do in identifying the shooting paths of their local associations, the interaction they do with the Voluntary Shooter Service, and that this information will be available to the administration. It will also be appropriate to congratulate everyone with passed last year's shooting test, thanking the Directorate for the Environment for a quick and good clarification that all of these will be continued this year. A little push from the Progress Party – and then everything came into place. That's amazing! At the same time, we are asked to encourage those who have the opportunity to meet on the firing lines as far as possible and to get as much training as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1349	It is true that five years ago Stortinget lifted the general ban on lead ammunition. Derogations were made for hunting in wetlands. The reason was that lead hail has had a documented negative effect in wetlands. Such negative environmental effects have not been demonstrated on land, i.e. in forests and mountains, where ammunition is currently permitted. The EU is working to introduce the same legislation. So Norway is, as we in the Central Party say, almost as usual ahead of the EU in this matter. Nor does the EU have a general ban on lead hail on its agenda. So, this proposal goes into open doors. Blyhagl has the property that it can be used in almost every garden canopy, regardless of type and age. It is also more effective and better in terms of animal welfare and safety, for there was a reason for lifting the ban. Steel hail, which was the option until the ban was lifted, had several negative properties. One of them was the danger of ricocheting and problems with forestry. Since the ban was lifted in 2015, hunters and fishermen have taken seriously the trust shown to them. Among other things, Norway’s Hunters’ and Fishers’ Associations have undertaken their own self-discovery work on their own shooting paths, and this will provide a good starting point for further action and follow-up of possible pollution. Hunting and fishing are important for the management of the country’s game strains. It is also an important hobby and a long tradition for hundreds of thousands of Norwegians – summer and winter. Hunting provides good natural experiences and promotes public health, both mentally and physically. Therefore, the centre lot is concerned that no further restrictions or measures are imposed that could adversely affect hunting, fishing and sport shooting, until full-scale alternatives are available that are broad and widely available. Then it is not a prohibition that only moves even more border trade to Sweden, where you get the same ammunition that was banned here before 2015. We are also concerned that the local hunting interests that may in the future be required to clean up their facilities, to compensate for their financial or other economic means that enable local associations to maintain their operations. We also believe that the government can contribute to this work by creating a program for the analysis of lead content on and around shooting paths and sketching out a scheme and method for collecting accumulated lead. That's why the Central Party is also behind that proposal together with several other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1362	This is quite an incredible case, where the knowledge and conclusions of the majority here in the Chamber collide completely. Reading the attitude and comments of an overall committee, it can be seen that all batches establish that lead is an acutely toxic heavy metal to aquatic organisms and mammals, that chronic lead poisoning can cause damage to the nervous system, kidneys, etc. They say that lead was included in the 1997 priority list of authorities. They also said that lead-containing ammunition was 67 pst. of the total lead emissions in 2017. That's what the committee says. So the biggest parties are able to conclude that we don't have to do anything – almost nothing. We're waiting for the European Union. Maybe Godot is coming, maybe not. Is it that dangerous? At the same time, there is a large look in the media, not later than a few days ago, about lead-containing ammunition used on shooting tracks. The illegal use of lead hail, which has been taking place for many years under the auspices of the Scythians' Association, I look away from it, for there are direct crimes, which I expect the police to take a look at. In the case of shooting paths, there are two aspects one has to go into – rifle shooting with lead on the track, which is still going on in a large style, and the huge amount of lead that is gathered in the ground around the shooting tracks after all the shooting activity over the years. Through SV's proposal, Stortinget now had the opportunity to take a force to get rid of this disgustingness that lead in nature is. But no, the committee won't. Well, the majority of the committees, which are not the majority in the Chamber, are asking the government to set up a programme for the analysis of lead content on and around all outdoor shooting paths, to investigate possible collection methods for accumulated lead. Well, it's a bit on the way to tackle the lead problem around shooting paths, but no one's willing to care about the lead in nature, 60-70 tons of poison, like, among other things. ends up in thousands of game, predatory bird – and humans. The problem with the use of leaded ammunition for large game hunting is that the balls are fragmented into thousands of small pieces that contaminate the meat, which are consumed by humans, and the offal eaten by ad-eaters. There is a scientific consensus that the use of leaded game ammunition poses a health risk to humans and wild animals. Remember, one single hail, 0.2 grams, is enough to cause serious poisonings to e.g.: an eagle. That we, the richest corner of Europe, with one of the highest levels of knowledge, are unable to do anything about the lead we feed to nature, is disappointing, frightening and makes me not immediately optimistic about how to cope with the new, big crises – with the climate and the loss of natural diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1377	Civil weapon training has over many years led to a good deal of metal, special lead, but also copper, in the ground on Norwegian shooting tracks. In the case of many civilian shooting paths, the concentration of lead and other metals in the ground may present a risk to health and the environment. This takes environmental governance seriously, and we are already assessing how this problem can be managed in a good way. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has commissioned the Environment Directorate to consider regulating active civilian shooting paths through regulations. The mission is to see if it is possible to impose clear requirements and conditions on the control of the supply and run-off of lead and other metals. The extent of the problem has been assessed. Measures to ensure a defensive handling of metals that are collected in ballistic traps and requirements for runway closure are also assessed. There are some 1,700 active civilian shooting paths in Norway. Examining all the paths, including analysing the contents of lead on and around the paths, is a big job, and it's a demanding job. Priorities will be needed and additional knowledge on what are the most effective and realistic measures. There are very large differences between individual lanes locally and between regions, among others. due to variations in geology and climatic conditions. Paths may also have very different environmental conditions. Newer civil paths are, fortunately, built to limit the environmental impact. The identification and recording of closed civilian shooting paths is the first step in getting a better overview of the number of closed civilian shooting paths and their pollution situation. The environmental governance powers will give priority to investigations and, where appropriate, clean-up actions on the shooting routes which pose the greatest risk to health and the environment. Emissions of natural pollutants are one of the major problems in the world, together with climate change and natural loss. The government will give you a high priority to that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1392	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1398	If the Council of State acknowledges that lead is as harmful as professionals say, and if we know that hunting ammunition, lead ammunition in general, is the main source of pollution in nature, why will the Council not propose banning hunting ammunition with lead in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1403	This was a difficult discussion in the previous big time period, where a large majority in Stortinget wanted to make a change in the total ban we had on lead hail. I can well say that I personally was not a big fan of that decision, but that was what was being done. I have no great reason to assume that the majority in the hall has changed in this way. That being said, fortunately, there are some restrictions, and there are also processes in the EU system around regulating these kinds of issues that we are following closely. But the representative Nävra must of course be allowed to think that it should have been introduced – or rather reintroduced – a ban, such as they removed in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1410	I thank you for your answer. What I think is a little strange, however, is that both the former Council of State Elvesuen and the current Council of State correspond by reference to the European Union, that there are processes there, but they also refer to the political position in the Chamber. I can understand that to some extent. But it's up to the expert councils to prove that a lot has happened in recent years, in the last few years, with knowledge of this sector. More and more knowledge has come. Among other things, we know that lead shots with tear into tissues actually spread to large parts of the tissue that people also eat afterwards as meat from game. Are the Councils aware of this? And couldn't the Council of State have then used that knowledge to try the matter again in the main hall?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1415	There is certainly a reason why, as the case-speaker was also in his opening post, there is also some health advice given here, of a preventive nature. So yes, I know in detail the knowledge that the representative Nävra refers to. There are political discussions in government and continuously here in Stortinget, and then one has to listen a little bit to what the view of the plurality is. And many battles have been taken before around this question. That being said, I would say that the processes that go internationally are important. Nor does it necessarily mean that the implementation of specific national environmental regulation is less time-consuming or more effective than following the international processes. For national prohibitions too, extensive documentation, processes, often WTO and ESA authorisations, etc. are required. So on a general basis, I think it's wise to stick to what's the EEA legal trail of pollutants, even in the case of lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1424	I can understand that the Council of State is a little confused between its government partners on this issue. But at the same time, in the light of the new knowledge that has come, because there is more and more knowledge in this sector: Can the Council of State imagine any other areas where there are more low-hanging fruits than introducing a lead ban in Norwegian hunting weapons? By a single decision, we had removed the very greatest threat to lead in Norwegian nature — an incredibly simple decision, for which one could have fought. And I assume that the Council of State is fully aware of what its professional directorate thinks about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1429	If you look at who was behind the plurality in the previous period, you'll see that it's not just in the government that there's a little different view of this, as it's often in some environmental issues – ref. the previous case, e.g. There are a lot of different discussions about environmental substances where, in turn, there are relatively low-hanging fruits, and where action can be taken, and where developments are also taking place. Then there are international processes at the same time, and things have to be anchored in those debts. One of the closest examples that I come up with, which I think we discussed because not too many weeks ago, is the question of paints and fluorine. There has been a lot of positive in the past, among other things. because one has seen that they are in debt, has begun to be more forward-looking on that issue and that there are regulations on the way. So the answer is well there's a lot of discussion about environmental drugs where there's a significant potential to do more with relatively simple grips, and I also think that one should do. I think, not least, that they are most effective if they are done through the REACH Directive, so that these pollutants, which I believe the representative is in agreement with, do not necessarily respect national borders, but follow both sea currents and winds, are regulated in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1438	Just one last question to the Council of State: when it is so difficult to make concrete proposals because of the political point of government, it is also in the power of the Council of State to be able to carry out investigations, to set down samples, to launch their trade unions, to gather knowledge of lead in Norwegian nature. Could the Council of State now plan to take some initiatives that are actually going on lead in Norwegian nature, and promote a case after an investigation into the lead in Norway and its status today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1443	I couldn't just think about it, I'm in the middle of it. As I said in my post, we are now doing an extensive work around the very question of lead and what is actually about what has been taken up in the proposal, the situation around the many shooting paths in the country. There is now a lot of work going on in the Environment Directorate, to get information about what is the state, what is the most effective means of both preventing further spread and clearing up after old sins. It's a pretty extensive job. There are huge numbers of tracks in very many different municipalities, in different states and in different ways, but that work is in full swing, fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1448	Then there's also a line for me. We know that lead is among the most dangerous pollutants we know, and the EU has warned that lead ammunition can be regulated more stringently. Nevertheless, as many people have referred to in this debate, the Norwegian League of Hunters and Fishers say that we do not know enough that we do not have sufficient evidence to show that lead ammunition is so harmful that it is right to ban it everywhere. In my head, it's putting the precautionary principle on my head. We know more than enough to know that lead and lead ammunition are harmful to nature and to humans. So my question is really simple, because it can give the Council of State an opportunity to only answer the environmental aspects of this: does the Council of State consider it environmentally sound to allow the use of lead ammunition?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1457	Based on a purely environmental assessment, each release of lead in nature would not be advisable, to put it that way. Then one will also have to take other care, of many different things, also in this case. It's often a little bit like this in environmental policy: not that we don't know enough, but I think the answer here, which is so often different, is that we know a lot, and then we can always know more. And that's the way it always is when it's for environmental poisons. But at least we know enough that we have a lot of restrictions on this already today, for example. in the case of wetland use, and in the case of what one is allowed to use on the shooting path, etc., etc. It in itself means that there's a awareness here that there's a high risk. And then the discussions that are going on in the EU about even stricter regulation, where in some aspects we are already in the lead, will be what we follow with interest and commitment, and that will be EEA-relevant when it comes to materializing in the REACH Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1464	Then the cord shift is over. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1482	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1489	Norway has broken the gap in climate risk. The range we set up and the report they produced have aroused great international attention and interest. In fact, the state pension fund abroad has also aroused a certain interest, although not so much in the climate and environment debate for the time being in Norway, but has also done a good job in terms of criteria and management related to both environment and climate. Risk assessment is a well-known topic for us here in Norway with the environment in which we live. Of course, Finans Norway has been involved in this. Insurance payments are a large part of the expenses incurred by their members as a result of natural events – floods, steps, rains and whatever they may be – but also those that can be more and more related to climate. Norway is also leading the process of identifying and providing an overview of its own nature. We have a wide range of governance in terms of both protection and restrictions on use outside national parks. We have a lot of valuable nature to take care of. We're also among those who digitized the most nature, and we've seen a good overview like that. We were actually going to China to the autumn to negotiate a Paris agreement for nature. Because of the corona situation, it is exposed. We were also actually going to Scotland at the climate summit for the autumn. It is also exposed. The name of the climate summit is COP, and it is number 26 in the series. In the case of the Natural Summit, there is number five in the sequence. It probably says a little about the attention of the climate in relation to nature – that is one thing – but also what risk elements we have had to do with this. But what we point to most from the majority here today is that it also has something to say about the methodology that exists out there, where also subjects and research would like to contribute more before we release such a sample in Norway, and that we cooperate as closely as possible within the Nordic countries to break the gap that Norway has also made in relation to climate. This is definitely what Norway is going to lead in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1502	There are two major deep, long-term and global crises we are facing in the future. It is the climate crisis and it is the natural crisis. The two are closely linked, they reinforce each other – climate change increases the seriousness of the natural crisis, and the way we use nature, contributes to climate change – but at the same time they are different and need to be understood separately as well as together. 2020 is nature's year. We were going to have a summit in Kunming – the UN Panel on Nature and the UN Summit on Nature – and the proposers wanted to focus a completely different focus on the themes of natural risk. We are nature, we live by nature, we should live by nature, and we live by a wide range of natural goods – natural services – that make life on earth possible. Our modern industrial society is nothing more than that we have simply become ‘smart’ to cultivate and exploit nature. But at the same time, we have also become much better at undermining the basis of life that makes continued growth and continued prosperity possible. This is very serious and very alarming. The focus on climate has now over several years shown that it is important to consider climate risk — what is called economic climate risk — both the transition risk and the risk to the climate itself. The excellent Climate Change Risk Committee, which presented its report not too long ago, strongly contributed to how both public authorities and the private sector can think about this economic climate risk. The proposals from the Workers' Party have wanted us to do the same with nature risk. We recognize that in many ways there is an even more complicated question, because emissions in one place in the world affect the whole world. Natural risk is much more unequally distributed, but the more important it is to go ahead. I would like to say that I am a little surprised at the response from the government parties, who believe to say that this is a good idea once, but someone else out there has to figure out the methodology for us first. And once they've done it – whether it's the OECD, aliens, the EU or others – we can come and do the same. What about taking management? What about focusing on yourself? What about doing something that will be important in Norway, and also give some international attention — that some went ahead and identified their natural risk, but also contributed to the development of the methodology needed for others to do the same. With that, I would like to address the proposals that the Workers' Party is part of in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1517	The representative Espen Barth Eide has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1522	I can only start by saying that I am not going to vote for this proposal, nor will I give Espen Barth Eide any international recognition for the experiment. There are many reasons to look at the use of our nature. These are challenges, like how we use it today, and how we can pick up the potential that lies there. But I don't think a public sample will be a solution to this. I have a feeling that this can quickly end with a mere restriction on the use of nature and how such use can be taxed or taxed. When I read the doubts in the comments of the Centre Party, when they think that such a selection will lead to a development based on ‘one-sided protection policy’, I think we shall listen, because this comes from a party that knows very well about the ambitions of the proposers and the proposers. Norway is a nation that has lived by nature around us. Whether it's the fish in the sea, whether it's the hydro power or the oil, we've lived by what nature has given us. As long as we have had entrepreneurs and drivers for development and growth, we have had ‘brake blocks’ that have always worked to make this as difficult as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1531	That the world is in crisis also in terms of loss of nature is raised by doubt. The loss of nature and biodiversity takes place at a great pace, and the consequences are insurmountable. However, the entrance of the centre party to that issue is different from that of the majority in this Chamber. We are in a tradition of administration through use. There are no simple solutions to these cross-sectoral global challenges. The solutions are very different and, in the view of the Centre Party, must be found in a line where sound management can be combined with sustainable use and harvesting of nature. Global agreements must first and foremost take into account the obligations of each country for the community and not how to solve the challenges locally. For the Centre Party, for example, efforts to limit the loss of food and cultural landscapes are essential. It's about food production, it's about preparedness, but it's not least about the consideration of biodiversity that exists in the cultural landscape. The solutions here lie in an agricultural policy that is conscious of these challenges, a conscious land-use policy, and allowing the harvesting of the resources provided by the land. The centre lot is also occupied by forest – to mention another area. The starting point for the centre party is that the forest represents a valuable resource that needs to be treated accordingly. It is possible to use the forest in a way that preserves the resources we need in relation to the bioeconomy, as a climate solution, but also preserves biodiversity, which depends on the forest, and which finds its basis here. Norwegian forest has been in continuous development, and there is hardly any untouched forest here in the country. The solution to the crisis related to the loss of nature and biodiversity must, in the view of the Centre Party, be based on different climatic, topographical and environmental conditions and geographical differences and assumptions. We believe that the proposal being debated today is too far off. The Centre Party considers that a natural risk selection should be organised on the basis of these assumptions and the principle of knowledge-based nature mapping, together with the tradition of nature use and management. This is not about the Centre Party's knowledge of the proposers. It's probably more about fearing a sample of a government that's in the process of further developing a protection policy that we've seen many examples of not being knowledge-based. The 10 percent protection of Norwegian forests is an example of that. The same is true of the proposal for a ban on peat production. Such emotional management of natural resources does not want the Center Party to stand behind, and we cannot therefore support today's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1546	Losses of nature and biodiversity are negative in at least three ways. One is the value of nature itself. These include: about all the amazing natural experiences that we don't want to rob the generations of the future. We live in the world’s most beautiful country, and we manage the world’s most beautiful nature. It must also benefit future generations. The second is the meeting with climate change. The more biodiversity we have, the better rusted nature is to deal with the climate change that we know is coming anyway. The third is that loss of natural diversity, biodiversity, can also have economic consequences and be directly negative for business and value creation, e.g. for the fishing industry. We support strong work, and we support internationally committed agreements to stop the loss of nature and protect endangered species. The nature risk work is professional and methodological in its start-up. The OECD is embarking on a work which addresses methods for analysing the impact of dependence, risks and opportunities in business relations with the natural diversity. Natural risk is an entirely real concept, a concept we should use more, and it should be integrated into all work of importance for natural diversity. Then we come to these arguments that the government has a wait-and-see attitude. We now heard from the representative Espen Barth Eide that the government parties' response is that we just have to see what's going on out there, and then maybe do something about it yourself afterwards. That's wrong. That is the argument on the left-hand side in the climate debate, in the environmental debate – every time they do not have real arguments, we hear this: Norway must go ahead. Well, what government parties have responded to in this case is that it is too early to say whether the most appropriate thing is to have a public natural risk selection based on the patterns of the Climate Risk Committee. That's all you've said. It's too early to say if it's the most appropriate. So I think there are a few countries that can say that we are going ahead as Norway does, both in climate policy and in environmental policy. In nature diversity policy and in other areas of climate policy, we go so far ahead that we pay other countries to take care of their nature. If you don't have any better arguments, you always come up with: 'The government just wants to wait and see', or 'Norway has to go ahead'. Norway is going ahead, and there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1567	What has nature ever done for us? Often it is in the way — in the way of a new cottage village, an alpine plant, a motorway or a snowmobile. We depend on nature. It's easy to say, but it's probably hard to believe it when what we feel dependent on in everyday life is the mac, the car, the wife, the money, the coffee and the cell phone. A rich nature gives us the things we're even more dependent on, but we don't realize that we miss before they're gone – clean air, clean water, food, medicine, protection against race and floods and materials to houses, clothes and other, as doctors, to mention something. Take the estuary, a little puzzle threatened by extinction, much because of the large-scale hydroelectric expansion we've had in Norway. River mussels are no delicacy for humans. That's not why we should take care of it either. But it's part of cleaning the water in the river – and we're just used to people depending on. Given that we agree that man is dependent on a rich nature and the context of nature to survive: how do we ensure this in practice? In English, they call this Web of Life, the web of life. It might sound a little hippie-like to a lot of us, but it's a good picture. Nature connects in so intricate ways that we don't even understand half. It's about who eats who, who protects who – in short, how we all depend on diversity. And if we don't know how the wires are connected, cutting a single thread can lead to the web shaving and the Web's function being weakened or destroyed. Most plants and animals are not necessarily such charming creatures. Maybe it's sad to think that there will be no more pandas, polar bears, rainforest, penguins and gorillas. But what about the fat kuka, the reptile or the grey buckthorn snail – species that are ugly, informal, small and with names that only a scientist can love. It's easy to ignore them, but that's exactly what the natural diversity looks like. And the animals that we know, that we watch on TV and hang pictures of, depend on these species and even more unknown relatives, but they never get on Discovery Channel or Out in nature. Nature is our most important service provider. Still, we're ruining it. What it will cost us, and what risk we're taking, is some of what we want to answer through such an investigation. I'll bring it up to the suggestions SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1584	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1590	The natural decay disappeared at a pace that we have not seen before, and what we suspect is not primarily plants and animals that we like to see – as the representative Haltbrecken was about to see. We lose parts of the life tissue that forms the basis for production, consumption and well-being. The state of nature depends on our actions, and our welfare depends on the state of nature. The notion of "natural risk" captures the last context: how robust or vulnerable will a country, industry or enterprise face major losses and serious degradation of ecosystems and natural areas? The answer to such questions helps us to ensure that the measures are strong enough. In the same way, it captures a different context: how robust or vulnerable will we be for the future strengthening of the measures we need to take to protect the natural disaster, as a follow-up to the Biodeficit Convention? There is an absolute parallel to the ‘climate risk’ approach, which includes both physical climate risk and transitional or conversion risk. The fact that we have used risk thinking in the climate field has helped us a lot to take care not only of what we believe will happen, but also of what can happen in extreme cases and in worst cases. I am sure that a risk approach can also provide us with a better understanding of how we rely on natural diversity and natural diversity policy. Both global warming and the loss of natural disasters are global challenges, and both are sources of economic loss already today. It is easy to imagine that businesses and jobs on the outskirts of the country are the most dependent on the natural basis and thus the most exposed to risk when the basis is weighed down, but this dependency applies to all — directly and indirectly. And I'm glad that a large majority in the committee found some that "natural risk" is a useful change of pace. However, when I don't want to support the proposal to create a public selection now by patterns from the climate risk selection, it's not because "natural risk" is an unimportant change. That's because we think it's too early. There are some important differences between climate and natural disasters, and the differences need to be taken into account when specifying how a risk approach to the natural disaster can look like. Natural risk requires, as declared by the OECD, tailor-made foam in a way that is different from that of climate risk. As of today, we have simply come too short. The government would like to help support the processes that fortunately operate internationally, which address the natural risk and provide content. Such a contribution is to work for this to come high on the agenda of UNEA-5, for example, the United Nations Environment Assembly. Both the majority and the minority in the Committee have developed this as an important initiative. I'll follow it up as president of that environmental assembly. I also want to address this in Nordic cooperation. And not least, we support the important work being done in the OECD, which is an important area for the exchange of experience and development of the concept of ‘methodology and statistics’ in general, and in the field of natural disasters in particular in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1605	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1610	I note with satisfaction that the Council of State shares the exposure to the term ‘natural risk’. I believe that and I'm glad. I would also like to conclude that it is good that a broad majority of the committee has spoken it up, but I continue to disagree with what becomes the second part of the article, namely that it is too early to address this in Norway, because at least I have always lived after the notion that you can work both at home and outside at the same time. Of course, we need to participate in international processes to develop methodology, but then for example. The Bank of England was in the forefront of developing the concept of "climate risk," because Mark Carney and the Bank of England did not say that we can't do this, because the others haven't done it first. You have to show someone. Someone has to go to the front. I find that difficult to understand and would therefore like to hear the Council of State explain why we could not have a public sample that looked at this in Norwegian context, which could also be an input to both the national and international process of developing the methodology for assessing natural risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1615	It has to do with the fact that when the government put down the climate risk selection, which delivered its report in the past, where Norway was probably the first country in the world, I think, who got such a report on a government's table, it wasn't just what Norway was doing on its own, with method development, etc. It was as part of an international process. One would have done quite a lot of work to figure out some common methods that could be useful when you're going to work with it. I don't feel like we're here anymore when it's natural risk. I wish we had come even further. I wish that the work in the OECD was coming even further, within the UN, etc. We're working on it just for that to happen. But starting from the very beginning even without a common view of method usage or how to do this, I just don't think I'm going to give us any more useful information. I could've always seen down a selection that would come up with something that wasn't very useful, but I'm generally a little skeptical about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1620	It would be strange to put down a sample for the purpose that it wouldn't come up with anything useful. One could try to put together professionals and people with insight into relevant environments, both climate, environment, nature and economic research, which could actually contribute something useful and thus say something to us here in Norway that could also inspire the international processes. But for my part, I will end by asking the Council of State if he is happy that someone else – for example. like the Bank of England in 2015 – going ahead and not waiting for something to happen, but actually going to the top to set a new agenda, so that at least we can cheer on those who dare to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1625	Yes, I'm glad, precisely because it was a useful work that enabled us to start our climate risk work. Now Bank of England is not a country, but it was an important professional work they started. I know that there's a lot of work going on out there -- Norway's contribution to it -- that can give us a foundation, at some point, to do an even bigger job here at natural risk. That's what I want us to do. I just think we're a little bit early. That being said, it is never too early to consider nature, to take on natural risks when making concrete decisions. I found, for example: It makes sense to consider it when discussing snowmobile issues, when discussing predatory game issues, when discussing issues relating to the breeding of bogs. Right there, I don't think the main problem is the lack of a public selection, but rather the lack of willingness to prioritize nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1630	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1637	The world is in an acute health crisis, we get out of it, but then we have to learn how we can be better prepared for crises we know to come. The major crisis facing the world is the environmental crisis. It's global warming, which we spend a lot of time discussing, but it's not the only one; loss of nature is the other. Loss of nature is both a problem in itself, a problem for us humans – because we depend on all life on Earth – and a problem for the economy. The World Economic Forum has calculated that the destruction of nature is a greater threat than stock bubbles, corruption and terror. We have had very good experience, as has been said several times in the debate, with this glittering climate risk committee. Although it has not yet been followed up, it is a very good basis for all of us to discuss. That is why the Labour Party, together with others, proposes: The future in our hands that we should get the same in terms of natural risk. The only argument we hear from the government parties is that they think it's too early: we have to wait – if we're going to even consider putting down a sample. I guess I'm afraid it's because it's from the Workers' Party that the Left Council won't get hold of it. He should have grabbed it with both hands and said: For a great suggestion, I wish I had come up with it myself. I think the need for this sample has been strengthened over the last week, because last week the head of the Right Programme Committee and the Council of State said that we should now take less account of nature. She said that the green shift was from a time when we could lean back. She has rightly received much criticism for that, and then she defends herself by saying that she did not talk about climate, she talked about nature. State Council Hofstad Helleland says Norway is the only country in the world that has the luxury of focusing on nature. There's so many wrong ways. Nature is no luxury, nor is Norway the only country in the world that takes into account nature. Nature is a necessity for all life on earth, including workplaces. It's as true as the leader of the international trade movement says: there are no jobs on a dead planet. I think it was a good point for what kind of debates you have in the government and in the right. In the Labour Party we discuss the opposite. We don't discuss how to take less into account nature, how to take more into account nature and climate, and how to create jobs by just doing it. We believe that such a sample as we have launched here could have been a good contribution to such a discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1650	It may not be so surprising that it was the last post that made me have to take the word. I assessed whether I should extend this debate – it sounded in my fingers – but then I thought: Is it a problem to extend a debate on this? It is an important matter we are discussing, too important for the representative Åsmund Aukrust to sit and make ableges of what is being discussed in other parties. The challenge for Aukrust's representative is that he has no answer, and the Workers' Party has no answer, to one of the things that are negative with the loss of natural diversity, namely that it will also go beyond value creation, business life. And why do they have no answer to that – what do I mean by that? What I mean by that, is simply that the Workers' Party is beginning to become very clear in this debate and is now going out to the outer left, along with the representative Haltbrecken, and sets a distinction between growth and the environment. It's an artificial distinction, a distinction that doesn't hold either in the environmental battle or in the climate battle, because there won't be any conversion if we don't have economic growth. This is the debate in the Right and the government parties: how are we going to decouple growth from emissions? Now we see emissions going down because of the health crisis, the pandemic, which we're in. But they're going down in a bad way, because there's no value creation, there's no growth – or this growth is slowing down, and then the green shift is also happening. This has always been the problem of the left-hand side in the climate and the environment: an artificial distinction is made between growth and the environment. But we can't do that, because then we won't solve any problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1659	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1675	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1682	The trainer consists of about 1,500 separate coral reefs, some of which are at least 7,000 years old. That is also why trawling in the area has been prohibited for several years. The search drill that was there lasted a few weeks. The well has been studied and abandoned, and the oil that was found – because they actually found some oil – was not profitable to pick up. The exploration drilling was dealt with and adopted in 2011 when the red-green government incorporated the area into the TFO scheme. I want to – as I hear and should – thank the Committee for a good dialogue on the matter. I will also be allowed to thank those I have been in dialogue with locally, on the islands around, about the matter – because it has been quite a commitment. Otherwise, I would recommend everyone to take a trip to Training, for those who have not been there. It's Norway's most beautiful place, and if you haven't seen it, google it now and click on their ‘pictures’ on your cell phone, you can see why – then you've found the place to visit the Norway holiday this year, at least. The coach’s staff is located a little northwest of the Traina, and the coach’s staff is currently covered by drilling time limits and limits to the particularly valuable and vulnerable area of Lofoten to Tromsøflaket. I understand the concern of the proposers, because the sea is important to us in Norway. We've lived off and by the sea for generations, and that's part of our soul and our identity. It gives us quite a lot of revenue, and that's why we have to manage this carefully. That being said, it was quite interesting to see how Wintershall planned and carried out this drilling that we have discussed. Although this was a fairly common well, they added up to a slightly different operation with as little footprint as possible. Among other things, they did quite extensive investigations to ensure that there were no vulnerable corals in the drilling site, they designed the well to minimise the emission of boreholes, and the rig was tight – so there was a rig without discharge into the sea – and the oil protection equipment was extended. It is quite gratifying to see the growing environmental awareness that is growing in the oil industry, and much of the expertise we develop can be used in other sectors – on the emissions side, but also on the environment. That said, however, we cannot close our eyes to the potential damage the sector can cause to vulnerable sea areas. That's exactly why we in Stortinget have set out to see this in a slightly larger context than this Document 8 proposes, and we look forward to dealing with it in the context of the overall marine protection plan that we expect will come by 2020. So then it's really just for us to enjoy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1695	The trainer is located in an area that was included in the TFO scheme in 2011 and opened up to petroleum activities with certain drilling time limitations. But coaching is also a valuable area where there are good reasons to base a precautionary principle. The working party is aware of the local concerns in this case, where in some cases the processes of marine protection plans have lasted up to 10 years. We understand that locals have difficulty trusting that the coach is actually protected through a national process. There have also been low expectations locally related to possible ring-effects for oil exploration in this region in Northern Ireland. The fact that Equinor did not opt for a landing solution at Veidnes in Finnmark probably does not strengthen support for oil activities in Northern Norway in general and around the Trainer. As part of the work on the management plans, a number of particularly valuable and vulnerable areas have been identified where particular care needs to be taken. Therefore, in the context of the review of the update of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan a few years ago, the Storting also decided that work on a comprehensive national plan for marine protection areas and priority areas defined as particularly valuable and vulnerable should be presented as its own matter to the Storing by 2020. Such a plan is also mentioned in the General Communication on the overall management of our recently submitted marine areas. Here it is also announced that the government will return to the Stortinget with a comprehensive plan for the valuable and vulnerable marine natural areas in our marine areas. The proposal we are considering today presupposes to some extent the work to be done by Stortinget in connection with the plan for marine protected areas during the year. Nevertheless, we would like to stress that the reasons set out for the Training Board indicate that it is natural to support a proposal that it is not appropriate to allow the development of oil and gas fields in the area around the Training Board or other sea areas planned to be included as particularly valuable areas in the forthcoming National Protection Areas Plan. It is a clear political signal that the Sea Area around the Trainee is protected from petroleum activity in the forthcoming national marine protection plan. The Working Party will vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1708	We are now considering a proposal to protect areas from environmentally harmful oil activity. I would like to clarify to the proposers that we have no environmentally harmful oil activity in Norway. We've protected all of our areas and areas from environmentally harmful activity. But we're opening up activity that can lead to damage to the environment. We have that in many areas. We have our agriculture, aquaculture, we have industry – all these are examples of industries that can harm the environment, but none of these industries are engaged in environmentally harmful activities. The trainer is located in an area open to petroleum activity, integrated into the TFO scheme in 2011. We know who crashed in 2011. It must be possible to have little predictability. But both SV and – I am not going to blame the Green Party for this – the centre party is involved in proposing anti-oil extraction. In fact, the Centre Party does not find any problem in running a test drill in the same area, just don't extract it in case you find anything. I want to ask these parties: with the predictability and attitude of the industry and the petroleum industry, how do they imagine to compensate the companies that would be affected by this proposal that we are dealing with today, if it had received a majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1717	The centre party has for the most part said that we should not have oil operations in Lofoten, Vesterålen and Senja. It's about laying down the precautionary principle, and here we have to give the fish the right to drive – or 'flood'! In our view, it is wrong to allow oil extraction in important spawning and growing areas for fish. The trainer is part of the same ecosystem linked to these marine areas. Emissions to the Coachevet will have the same consequences – perhaps few more – as if we had been released into the Lofoten, Vesteralen and Senja areas. That's why we want to give the fish the right to run. We can't afford to gamble with these resources and these natural values. The centre party is aware that a matter has been expected of marine protection during the year, but we are also aware of the fact that the processes around marine protection plans are going through as much as ten years. In addition, it is expected that the processes for finding new candidate areas for so-called vulnerable and valuable areas will cover two years and, in the meantime, concern for the local population is growing. The centre part has also received some phones from the area in this process. We therefore feel it is urgent to put in place a protection around the Trainer, just as we do that there should be no oil activity in the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. The trainer not only represents part of this important ecosystem, it is also important for deep-water corals, birds and other marine natural values. Norway has a tradition of good management of fishing resources, and the regime around the management of the world’s largest cod stock is an unconditional success. The Skreifisk is the carrybar of the entire coast of the north. The reputation of Norwegian fishing management is good, and the fishing markets around the world love Norwegian wild fish. Clean seas, good raw materials treatment and sustainable harvesting are the basis for that reputation. Oil activities in this area are reflected in that picture. The precautionary principle must be used as a basis for this management. According to the view of the Centre Party, oil operations at Trennarevet are not compatible with the precautionary principle, and I take this into account the proposals of which the Centre Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1732	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1737	I must say that I greatly appreciated the contributions of the previous representative. It was a very good post that describes the very good values and the importance of taking care of the coach. Along the Norwegian coast, we find a number of vulnerable and valuable areas. The coach is one of those things. The trainer has been protected since 2010 from the use of harmful bottom gears for fishing purposes. Regrettably, protection from oil has not been destroyed. Luckily, the test drilling of the last year proved not to give the results it was profitable to extract. The training area is located between Røst and Traina on the northern Helgeland coast. According to the Marine Research Institute, an oil spill here would be at least as harmful to these natural values as a discharge into the Lofoten, the Vestral or Senja. On 4 December last year, when we went out with the MDG with the proposal to protect the coach, the then State Secretary of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Atle Hamar of the Left, believed that the proposal had ‘bad timing’. He then directed the work on the management plan to be presented during the winter, and he said to the NRK: ‘The government is in the middle of the work on the new management plan and all the professional communities are required to make their contributions. - Shortening the important acquisition with a single decision about the coach now makes little sense». Ketil Kjeseth, environmental figure in the Left, went further and said to the NRK: ‘We have the ambition to protect both that and more in the new plan coming to the Summit in 2020’. Now, the entire management plan for the Norwegian sea areas referred to by the former Secretary of State has been presented, and I have seen no proposal to protect neither Coach Vet nor any of the other vulnerable and valuable sea areas down the coast. On the other hand, what is stated in the management plan presented is the following: ‘The establishment of marine protected and protected areas in Norwegian coastal and marine areas shall contribute to an internationally representative network of marine protected and protected areas. The objective is not considered to be achieved for any of the marine areas because there is a lack of implementation of the marine protection plan and because the areas established are not considered to constitute a representative network that preserves the diversity of habitat types.» ‘The measure is not considered to have been reached’. – Then there is reason to ask the government what they intend to do to achieve this goal. The Secretary of State may have thought about the Marine Protection Plan, but I hope that the Council of State will now tell Stortinget what he intends to do to secure a representative Marine Protection Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1765	Drilling for oil by the coach – it’s wrong, it’s old-fashioned, and it’s greedy. The area is Norway's main spawning and breeding area for many species of fish that our coastal population has lived on for all years and is part of Norwegian food supply. Here are also large populations of seabirds and important deepwater corals. According to the Institute of Marine Research, which is the top professional community we have on marine ecosystems and provide advice to the authorities in this area, oil spills will be at least as disastrous as a discharge into Lofoten. The world has already found more coal, oil and gas than we can burn if we are to achieve the objective of halving emissions by 2030 in order to avoid life-threatening and incalculable climate change. More oil exploration now is itself investing in the failure of global climate policy, otherwise we would have to assume that our markets for this oil will disappear. In winter, the oil company Wintershall light up after oil at the Coachevet. Fortunately, they did not find any viable findings. Nevertheless, the case shows the need for greater protection of vulnerable sea areas. The local resistance to oil exploration at Coachevet is enormous. Norway’s Coastal Fisheries Teams identify the area as the most important for the growth of a quantity of species of fish moving along the coast. Drilling for oil at the Coachevet is to gamble with workplaces, nature, climate and food security – and for what purpose? Who are the fossil parties of the Greatness trying to trick? In addition, the government granted permission for test drilling at the Coachevet while the Stortinget was waiting for a comprehensive national plan for marine protected areas. In the plan, the government is required to give priority to the areas defined as particularly valuable and vulnerable. Allowing test drilling before the protective plan has been presented shows, for my part, both a lack of knowledge and a lack of respect for Storting’s decision. Norway is rich. We have one of the world's longest coastlines, and we manage six times more seas than land. We're a fishing storm power, and we need to exploit that when we're about to move away from the oil. Every time we look for more oil in vulnerable sea areas in the north, the green shifted even further in time. Both the climate, the sea and North Norway deserve a new political course. That is why we are asking the state today to make it clear that oil extraction at Coachevet and other vulnerable areas is not relevant. The area around the Trainer must be protected, and there must be a full stop in test drilling in all vulnerable areas, now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1784	The government submitted its management plans for the Norwegian seas a few days ago. The management plans are overarching and policy frameworks for all activities in the Norwegian seas. As part of that work, particularly valuable and vulnerable areas, known as SVOs, are identified, which are areas of considerable importance for the biological deficiency and the biological production of marine areas, also outside the areas themselves. Specially valuable and vulnerable areas do not produce direct effects in terms of economic activity constraints, but signal the importance of showing particular attention in those areas. A new knowledge of environmental values and vulnerability has been acquired in particularly valuable and vulnerable areas. For several of these sites, a high environmental value has been confirmed and strengthened through research, monitoring and monitoring. The limits for some of the particularly valuable and vulnerable areas have been adjusted in the new management plan notification. The review of the particularly valuable and vulnerable areas has shown that there is a need to look at the value and vulnerability of several areas. Professional forums will review some areas in all areas and assess needs related to the closer specification of value and vulnerability in their further work. In the context of several existing SVOs, identified areas of special value, the so-called candidate areas, are based on new knowledge of the spread to the seabirds and land use. Professional forums, as part of the further review of all SVOs, will also assess the candidate areas and look at the boundaries of the current SVOs. The area around the Trainer Board is such an area. In the management plan for the seas, as the government recently presented, there is also a general framework for petroleum activities to take care of coral reefs. This frame will also apply to the coach. Frame sounds: ‘New extraction permits shall take the necessary measures to ensure that coral reefs and other vulnerable bottom fauna are not damaged by petroleum activity. Specific requirements must be taken into account in order to avoid direct physical damage to the reefs of bottoms and anchor chains, borehole sludge and contamination from water produced.» When it comes to marine protected areas, many of which are occupied by them, they can be created with natural disasters permitted to reach 12 nautical miles from the baseline of territorial waters. According to today's legislation, the trainer's profession, which is located in the Norwegian economic zone, is not relevant for cross-sectoral protection under the laws of nature, unless the Storting wants to change the laws of nature. The government will continue work on the Marine Protection Plan, with the aim of protecting a representative selection of our marine areas. The Government aims to come to the Storting with a holistic national plan for marine protection in an appropriate manner during the course of the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1804	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1810	My question to the Council of State relates to what he now said about the coach and the marine protective plan that has been notified. The chairperson of the Committee, Ketil Kjenseth, said to the NRK on 4 December 2019: ‘We have the ambition to protect both that and more in the new plan coming to the Summit in 2020’. With the word ‘it’, the representative referred to the coach, as the discussion was about. Does this mean that the government no longer has any ambition to secure the coach, as Kjeseth said to the NRK?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1820	The word ‘protection’ is used in slightly different ways in the debate on petroleum activity. When we talk about it, it's very often really about the framework of petroleum activity, where the government says that here we don't want it, for example. when we say that we do not want petroleum activity north of the ice edge, as defined in the new management plan. Then, of course, the representative Kjeseth himself will answer for what he was aiming for, but what I referred to in my post when it comes to the purely legal marine protection that I can give according to the laws of natural disaster, and which we absolutely have ambitions to strengthen, is a limitation of the natural disaster promise out to 12 nautical miles. This does not mean that, in any other way, it is possible that a petroleum activity should not occur in a region. There are many areas where they say it is not a marine protection area. But at least that's how it relates if it's the kind of legal cross-sectoral protection it's about, after the laws of nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1827	The council says that he has the ambition to strengthen this protection, in his response to me now. Does this mean that the state council will work to secure the training ground as a marine protection area in the upcoming big shot?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1832	I agree with many of the descriptions given by the representative Haltbrecken in the introduction, about the importance of a representative selection of marine protection areas, etc., and I think we still have a job to do. This is one of the reasons why we want to put forward a marine safety plan. There's got to be a good job. A range of areas should be considered. We get back to what is the result of it, and what we can put forward, but my starting point is that there are many current candidates that it is worth looking at. But as I also say, if you're going to use today's natural disaster law, there's a limit of 12 nautical miles for what's going to get that kind of legal protection. This does not mean that all other areas are unregulated, or not in different ways can be led by political leaders, with frames for petroleum activity and such things. But the legal protection of a marine protected area as a cross-sectoral protection is bounded by the laws of nature which the Storting manages.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1839	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. Since we are now dealing with this with marine protection areas and the upcoming big news, I have a question for the Council of State relating to another marine protection area. A number of written questions have been asked to the former Minister for Climate and Environment of the Left, namely a Marine Protection Area of Tøndelag, Børgin and Skarnsundet, which is a very valuable area to be protected by the Marine Protection Plan, well within the 12 nautical miles limit. I use the opportunity to ask the Council of State if he will take this protection proposal up from his drawer and ensure that it is incorporated into the Marine Protection Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1844	The Council of State may choose whether to answer the question, which goes beyond the matter itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1849	The representative would like to take advantage of the occasion, but I think I would like to take advantage of the privilege of saying that Børgin and Skarnsundet are well away from the coach. But I am aware of the matter and will of course come back to her in the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1854	In 2017, therefore, the Stortinget Government considered its proposal for updating the Norwegian Sea Management Plan. In the process, the Government asked the Government to present a comprehensive national plan for marine protection areas and to give priority to the areas defined as particularly valuable and vulnerable – the so-called SVOs. This overall plan has not yet been submitted. That is well explained in the debate, and the Council of State has also stated that the cross-sectoral protection instruments we have today will not necessarily be relevant to the Coach. However, I believe that a relevant question to the Council of State responsible for the natural diversity and the environment and our climate is whether it was environmentally sound to allow exploration by the coach before the protection plan was submitted, or before other environmental assessments of the area and what kind of protection this area should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1859	There was at least nothing to prevent it, in the sense that this area had been inserted as part of the TFO scheme already under the previous government, and thus it was possible to light it out and get a chance to run a test drilling, with the limitations that followed it. This is also the case today, that there is no total ban on business there. But it was not on the coach's staff, but it was near it. But there will be limitations if such permits are granted, and I quote instead a little of the entries that are in place, based on the management plan we have now provided. In addition, there will be significant limitations on drilling in oil leading layers during spawning periods and nesting periods, and especially reinforced oil protection, etc., because there are vulnerable areas. But the area has been inside the TFO for a long time. That is why it was granted permission to operate search drilling there last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1864	I must admit that I did not wonder if it was technically within the framework of allowing test drilling here. I am really asking that responsibility for the environment and nature in Norway, the diversity of our seas – large sea areas such as Norway, both our workplaces and our young people, on which we depend for a long time in the future – make an assessment of whether it is proper to run test drilling in the first place, with the expectation that there will be oil activity here, and to allow oil activity in vulnerable areas. Is that justifiable?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1869	When one makes such assessments, and when I make such assessments as constitutionally responsible for them, the free-lance assessments are not on the stand. It's based on what's involved in the framework of the petroleum industry, the management plans we have, the requirements that follow, concrete assessments from different directorates, etc. There will then be different political views about how strict leadership will be, as we have now had very strong political views about – and this council has also had it – around, for example. frames for action in the vicinity of the iskantsona, or at the coastal zone outside Troms and Finnmark. However, environmental assessments are made on the basis of the current framework, and for that area there are frames that go quite far back, and where there are now a number of leaders in the new management plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1875	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1882	Hidden behind technical terms, SVOs, maritime protection areas and further trade terms, this matter for the centre party is about using the precautionary principle, which we strongly believe must be used even when it comes to petroleum activities. The trainers and surrounding areas are part of the areas defined as particularly vulnerable by the professional authorities. That means that you really should take a step back, especially when you're working on defining the marine protection areas. I have to say that I react a little when the Council of State indicates that it is the Stortinget that manages the Law on Natural Diversity. If it was the case that the Left wanted to put down its feet and thought that it was appropriate to look at other legal provisions in order to facilitate discussion of what important marine resources, whether they are seabirds or whether they are fish, or whether they are coral reefs, you want to protect, the government could come to the Stortinget with a change or a new law that discussed these conditions, not try to hide behind, as the Council of State does here, by pointing out that it is the Storting that is responsible for the Law of Natural Diversity. It's an avoidance. For the peoples locally, this is about the values that have been harvested for generations, which you want to reap from in the future. For the Center Party, there has therefore been a discussion about how to take care of the legislation and things that you have been involved in in the past. However, it is important to stress that this hall — and society in general — will continue to share in new knowledge. And the new knowledge – which is not necessarily new, but which has been reinforced by the work that has been done, among other things. In the last ten years, trying to put in place the protective plans that were in place shows that the values represented by the Trainer, especially for the nearby areas, i.e. the Lofoten, the Vestreålen and Senja, are particularly high. In this context, it would have been useful for the Storting to make the precautionary principle visible and therefore not to open up oil and gas activities in these areas. The values to be replaced, if any, by the companies that carried out the test drilling operations in the area were discussed. Very well-known activity is not taking place there now, and it will be in this way under tax law that the costs incurred are to a large extent already to be reimbursed. So it would have been useful for the Stortinget to put a foot in the ground now and say that there is a work going on, we see the values that lie here, we see the need that is to be led was, and that the Storting wants to clarify that you don't want activity in these areas – at best for fish, birds and the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1895	I take up the last post from the representative Nordlund, because he said ‘a step back’. I guess that's the central one right there. It has also been highlighted in the debate on the Left's objectives, but it was the red-green government that opened up that test drilling. It is good that both the Center Party and SV now clearly want to take it back from when one opened that area in 2011. There's important lessons in that. It is also important for us all to learn that once one has taken that step, one comes into legal challenges – it is incredibly difficult to take that step back. There's also a way to work, not to go into it. Then you've started something like it's very hard to reverse. It is also important in terms of environmental and climate considerations, the areas in which it opens, and the laws and rules governing management. The training area is vulnerable in several ways. The red-green county council in Northern Ireland has worn off – among others. on the SV side – with concessions, fish farming and other on land. There are many reasons to be led were in several areas in the areas around Training.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1904	This is not an attempt to prolong the debate, but when the representative Kjeseth here points out the very obvious fact that, from time to time, new knowledge makes it possible to take a new approach or to assess the situation differently, it is precisely the same as the Council of State had in relation to the work undertaken in the development of marine protection plans. I think I must remind the representative that the Granavolden platform states that the revision of the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan will focus on environmental advice in or near-valuable and vulnerable areas. The trainer is in itself a value and is also close to such an area. In that context, it would not have been so strange if the Left had actually agreed with what the Center Party believes, namely that oil operations should not be opened up in this area. So the government platform has a basis for this, and it has obviously been meant to do so over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1911	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1927	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1934	Let me first, as the rapporteur, thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. It's a broader setting, and as a larger part of the back room, than most of the other predatory stuff we're discussing right now. The administration of large predators, under the bears, builds on wide settlements in the Storting. This is both political and administrative fraud. The two-part objective shall be followed in such a way as to focus both on Norway’s co-responsibility for viable populations of large predators in Scandinavia and on the concerns of grazing and others using the same areas. Understandably, there are debates when people find that there are probably more bears and bear swallows in an area than what is the official number. It will also be, because all natural management in Norway must be knowledge-based. Knowledge and insight, in this case about the life-set of the bear, have been important in order to bring about the most correct management possible. From the 2004 agreement on predators, a documentation and counting of young coal were used to assess the achievement of the target. In 2010, a new model was added to the current model. He's developed as part of the Scandinavian bear project, and that's the model that's being used today, and that researchers think gives a truer picture of the situation of the bear population. A joint committee has agreed that the management, under that inventory, must always rely on the best available professional methods. The model addressed by the Central Party in the proposal has weaknesses, and it is understandable that there is not a single committee which has been behind it. But as Ivar Aasen says, To the law of all can no man do. The majority of the population suggest that a non-examined management should not be overestimated on the professional assessment of what is the best method of counting bear gills. We're going to continue a counting, and we're going to have to say that the sitting government – and the always sitting government and the administration – always ensures that the file and calculation methods are the best available. It's decisive for trust between people and administration. That trust is a premise for a robust predatory policy that is to last over time, and it is with this foundation that the majority of the committee – and it is made up of all the non-participants of the Centre – are in favour of rejecting this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1951	There are always many who engage when we have predatory things for treatment in the Storting, and the commitment tends to be quite strong. I have to admit that I often send a warm thought to those who negotiated the predatory comparisons in Stortinget in 2004 and 2011 – it may not have been just-just. But if the predators are to have credibility, it is of course a prerequisite that they are followed up, and that the two-part objective that takes into account both stocks and grazing is at stake. I must admit that I have a great deal of understanding of the wishes of the proposers for the best possible method of counting bears. If the counting method doesn't reflect the real level of the population, if you find that there are more wolves – or wolves... you talk about predators, it tends to be wolf, I thought bear; it's liberating with another predator inside – that is, if the counting method doesn't reflect the real level of the bear population, the comparisons and the management also lose credibility. We must therefore always make sure that we use the best professional methods available. Like the nerd I am, and as happy as I'm working with predators, I've looked at the different methods, which are really quite interesting. I think the most exciting thing is that we have developed our own method in Scandinavia that is adapted to our bear population, and the method we use today is professionally rated as the best. Then I think it's a bit challenging, and perhaps not very appropriate, whether we as politicians should define ourselves as experts on bears, although I've seen that there are many experts around – on infectious diseases, for example. – and that we should then try to override the professional assessments of what is the most accurate method of counting bear nebulae. At least I don't feel competent about it, and that's why I hope we can today agree that we still want to base the best professional advice, and then reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1962	I react that someone here in the Chamber, the rapporteur, mentions that the method we are proposing has weaknesses. But the Center Party does not propose any specific method. We say that this has to be assessed by the Council of State and the government and find new methods that are more accurate. The 2011 rapprochement states that the target population of breeding bears is 13. The brown bear population is monitored through the National monitoring programme for predatory game. And since the monitoring of the population is concentrated on the collection and analysis of biological material, the number of bears registered is at all times a minimum number. The size target is aimed at how many bear coals are born annually. For bears this is not calculated by the actual observation or counting of juveniles. Instead, a mathematical calculation is made of the number of juveniles based on the DNA samples and the number of bears registered with a residence in Norway during the current season. Simulation is made based on factors such as land use, age composition and reproduction data. When the number of young people is based on such a mathematical calculation, it makes the count very small, and it really says itself. It is also problematic that safe observations of polar bears or inner bears with juveniles are not included in this population. DNA samples recorded as bear but not recorded at individual level are also excluded. It is a significant challenge for a number of DNA tests to be subjugated. For 2018 it was taken approx. 1000 samples suspected of bear, including genetic analysis. Of these, half were signed and rejected as useless. There is no doubt that the current method of counting bears has many sources of error, and it is clear that the population is actually higher than that recorded. The centre party therefore considers that a new method should be developed that gives a real picture of the bear population and is of the opinion that the current counting method is conflict-provoking and does not adequately meet the two-part objective of the game management. A more accurate record of stock status is also essential to create trust in management. I'm a little surprised, because this is perhaps the least incisive proposal the Centre Party has promoted in the case of predators. I am surprised that neither the Labour Party, the Right Party nor the Advance Party show any interest in the matter. Many people experience this as a major challenge, and in particular those most affected in a number of vulnerable areas. With that, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1979	The representative Sandra Borch then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1984	So once again, the Centre Party has made a proposal that casts doubt on research results and the management of predators in Norway. We're getting used to it. I don't know if the Center Party is aware of that, but the Scandinavian bear research is, just like the wolf research, at the top of the world, and the Scandinavian bear project has gained enormous recognition abroad. Since 1984, when it all started, researchers have been behind numerous recognized projects with strong results on migration patterns, distribution, genetics and many ecological factors. They are behind results based on some of the world's longest-standing research studies. I know this well. I've been working closely on that environment for many years in my old job, both nationally and internationally, and I know that many, including North American researchers, have blocked the eyes of the European project that this Scandinavian bear project was. It was new work to a large extent, and it still has a little on the same track. The models referred to are based on reproduction conditions, i.e. how often they get kids, patterns of migration and not least the distance from the national border where the tracks were found. Here's a pretty important point, which the Center Party doesn't mention that much. There's talk of underestimation and possibilities for it. Of course, we're very concerned about that. The statement ‘there are more bears than the research says’ I have met so many times when I have been in the field. It has, for example, been a bear that's been shot, and then we see that it's abruptly over on the sheep's loss. So it was just one bear. But locally they think there have been many bears in the area. It's a classic situation. It should also be remembered that the bear in Norway is largely border bear. It's on the keel against Sweden, and it's heading towards Finland and Russia. We share a population with Russia and Finland up there in the north – this knows, for example. The representative Seestad was very good. The point is that it can stay quite a lot in Sweden, for example. For example, this bear enters Norway and leaves a feather. Then there comes a scientist and picks up this shit and takes DNA samples from it. It is then registered as being in Norway, while it may be mainly in Sweden. This means that for periods the population may be overestimated – a rather important point for a representative of the Central Party to be aware of. So the question is, how in the world is the Center Party going to be able to count young people when no one else has done it? How much resources are you going to spend on finding a bearhi? If you knew how many hi I've been looking for without finding them! It requires an enormous effort, just so it's mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e1999	In order to maintain a dynamic and prudent management of wild game, it is an important premise that monitoring of wild game populations provides up-to-date and quality figures on stock sizes and stock targets. The method used today is the one that is considered to be the best from a professional point of view. I believe that any change in monitoring methodology should not be based on political decisions, but that we should leave it to the best professionals we have. The first proposal is to develop a new method of counting young coal of bear. I understand that the proposers believe that the documentation of young coal can be an alternative or a supplement to the current method. From the 2004 rapprochement of wild game, newly documented young coal was used in the assessment of the achievement of the objectives of the bear. There are several challenges associated with the use of the method that I'm not going into any closer to right now. In 2010, a scientific model came to calculate the likely number of juveniles based on the registered number of insiders. That model superseded the previous method using documented young coal. The second proposal is to carry out a survey of the real level of bear population through a census. Since 2009, the population of bears in Norway has been monitored through nationwide annual DNA collections. Field personnel in the State Department of Natural Sciences are collecting material. It is also well organised to allow tour operators, hunters, nutritionists and others to collect samples, which are also part of the basis for analyses and results. I'm glad that the majority in the committee think that Stortinget should not over-examine the professional assessments of what is the best method for accurate counting of bear swallows. I agree with the Committee that an assumption is that the administration ensures the best available method at any given time and that it is used. Although we have one of the best surveillance programs for predatory game in the world, methods can always be improved. The National Monitoring Programme Board is composed of experts at international level and shall contribute to the quality assurance of monitoring. The department assesses and makes recommendations, including: on the arrangements and new development of methods used to optimise monitoring. Finally, I would like to mention that it is open to anyone who wishes to do so, to contact the trade union board and make their input into changes in the monitoring of predatory game in general, and of bear in particular. The representative proposal would like to be sent over there, and I am sure that it will be dealt with in a thorough manner, and that all the recordings are welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2014	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2019	I am, as you know, in agreement with the Council of State that the Storting should not overestimate the counting methodology in this or other issues. At the same time, it is a fact that as late as the Energy and Environment Committee was travelling to Finnmark and meeting representatives from NIBIO Svanhovd, they confirmed that we are relatively safe on the population we have, as a minimum number of bear populations in Norway, but that one has less control up, that is, how much bear it really is, in addition to the minimum registration that a person feels they are giving good answers to. The question is, is it good enough to actually run effective management, especially in areas where the bear is involved, which are also grazing priorities, when we have no better overview than we already have? Is it possible to improve on the basis of this, so that you have more accurate ways of registering it for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2024	The answer is that it can be. I have zero political prestige on this issue, because I don't think it's a political question. I want to know how many predators we have in Norway. It gives us the best administration. The fact that there's room for improvement is really just history, because we've changed our methods. But then I would also say that if you want to rely on essentially visual observation, what you can actually see – I feel that the representative proposal goes far in that direction – there is no way that it will not give us a minimum number or, for that matter, a slightly higher estimate of the bear than what we have today. On the contrary, a previous one was based more on just visual observation. So when you went over to more DNA-based counting, you got a higher estimate for bear, not a lower estimate for bear. The aim of this proposal may be that we have too much bear in Norway, and that the real number is much lower, but I allowed myself to doubt it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2030	The last thing we can probably definitely be a few about, and there's probably a lot of good reasons for that too. However, the reality is that, especially for the population who live in pasture-priority areas experiencing major bear injuries, and to the extent that also in areas reserved or kept for breeding areas for bears, there is a historically considerable loss with it, and for example. livestock production in such areas has been substantially altered. Then you have to be busy that we have as good a knowledge base as possible to manage from. I believe that the Council of State also sees the need for us to develop the methodology in the future, so that the measures taken in the management process are as up-to-date as possible. Is there a current order for this to be updated, or is there something that the Council of State might want to initiate, if necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2035	As I was a little bit involved in my post, it is this department that is responsible for continuously developing methods. It consists not only of Norwegian expertise but also of international expertise. I don't have a specific order down in my systems now, except that it's generally important that a whole way of developing such methods and looking critically at it. I know that too. As far as I know, there is no new research or new knowledge that means that the methods we use today are too poor and that there are better alternatives. But if there are representatives who have recorded it, or know the professional community that thinks so, they are more than welcome to record it, both to me and to the board of directors. I am absolutely sure that one will take it seriously, so that we get, as the representative proposal well has in its title, a'real number of bears'. We should all be for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2040	I have to make it clear once again that we have no concrete proposal on the method of counting. We suggest that the government look at this just to get the best knowledge and real numbers. We know that Trondelag, a heavily loaded area with a lot of bears in grazing priority areas, maybe especially last summer, has also recorded that you need a new counting method for bear. I would like to challenge the Council of States – even if he has been involved in it – whether he believes that today's method of counting and recording bears shows the real level of bear population today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2045	I don't know, but what the best professionals we have, tell me, is that's the best way we can give the best estimate. That's what I can say. I don't know any method that professionals think is better, but as I said, I don't have any merit in it. If it exists, we just have to put it into practice. These methods are also continuously developed. I'm going to give the representative the right to say that in his proposal the Central Party does not propose a specific counting method, and that's good, but as the proposal is written, I feel that here I want a much more visual observation to be based on, for a reference to so many different observations that have been made around. And that was like saying the method we used before. There was no higher estimate on the bear; there was a lower estimate on the bear. And it also has a lot of danger, because it can, for example, It would be difficult to see differences between one-year-olds and those two years older. It's imperative to know if a bear looks, is already registered or not, there's a risk of double counting with more. So it's probably not perfect methods, but I think the way we use today is the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2052	I was asking to get a line on the representative Borch instead, but I can't. I'm most concerned about the reproduction rate of the bear. It's low, and I expect the Council of State to be aware of that. Bear is a species that is managed with much more care than wolf, which has a high rate of reproduction. An adult inn averages about one young person a year in South Norway — and young people every three years. What I'm wondering about is, we've seen examples that insiders of milk in their teats have been shot. What methods and rules can the Council of State envisage so that we can avoid this, so that we do not hunt down young people, who, in our view – and I think the majority of the country’s views – are an abomination?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2059	There is no doubt that we are currently far below the stock target for the bear that Stortinget has asked us to manage the administration after. The size has asked us to have 13 young people. We're at seven. And then I'm going to point out that there's a lot less concern about it in the Storting than that's about what we're above the stock target, that's about some other predatory species, but both of them are a challenge that one has to deal with in the administration. We have too few bears, that's right, and it's also true that the key to this, as with most animal species, lies in that we have hoofs, nests, that can survive and bring forth kids. For the bear there is talk of a few babies being born, and it takes a long time. So it attracts absolute caution. So these are demanding discussions to stand in. We have had a number of debates in this Chamber, for example. on the situation in Trøndelag, which was also the representative of Borch, who was serious last summer. It should be said that the number for the nation was quite good, but in Trøndelag it was serious, and there is just a reluctance to fall within consideration of the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2066	In this debate, there has been so much shift of responsibility on professionals and fine words about the subject, quite simply. But the reason we promoted this proposal is that if you look at concrete facts, I can very well understand that people are frustrated, because the probability that it is more bear than what today's census shows is great. In concrete terms, I would like to refer to region 6, which is Trondelag and Møre and Romsdal. In 2018 it was calculated that there were 1.8 bear nestlings there. It's physically impossible that there could be 1.8 young people, but it was calculated for it using today's method. At the same time, if you go to www.rovbase.no where there is official evidence of predators, you will find four different observations of juveniles in 2018, at four different locations in Trøndelag. Official data are available to all. Can the Council of State understand that people lose confidence in government when there are such clear contradictions in the facts here?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2073	Firstly, I don't put any responsibility on professionals, but I think professionals should be responsible for some very professional questions. I think, for example, that if the representative of Enger Mehl takes his car for repair and is told by the mechanic that the car is unsafe to drive, she does not take a political assessment that this is going well anyway. Something like that must also be when we talk about the DNA registration of animals, and what's quite difficult biological questions. That doesn't mean that Stortinget doesn't deal with predatory game policy, but that means that some things are actually professional questions. How do we count predators, I think it is. So the question is, can I understand the frustration when people experience or believe that there are more predators in nature than official statistics show. Yes, if you feel that it is, I can understand that it is frustrating. That being said, we know, because we used it earlier, that visual observation gives a lot of mistakes and actually under-reporting in relation to what today's reporting is giving. That it's a goal that one should base itself on that, I have to say that I doubt that the center party means.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2080	It's going to be a little bit too stupid, the production that the government here is trying to do. What is the fact is that today's counting method is a mathematical formula. What you're doing is you're calculating from math how many juveniles there are. On the other hand, if you're based on what's observed in nature – and then I don't necessarily mean visual observation, it could be excrement, it could be DNA tests, traces, hair, there's a lot of things, and you can read about it in detail at Rovbase if you take the time to go in there – then you'll find that there are four young people. But if you do a mathematical calculation based on hypothetical facts, you get 1.8 young people. That's what's challenging. We're not saying you're going to go back to what it was, and calculate the population of bears just based on what's observed, but we're saying it's obvious that there's a lot of weaknesses in today's count, and that you should consider supplementing the number of maths you get, with certain observations of juveniles, because something else gets weird. Is that understood by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2085	The representative shall address the speech to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2090	As I have said in some previous answers, I am absolutely open that we can get even better models, that they can be supplemented by new methods. But then I think it must come from the professional community and those who know something about it. I believe neither I nor the representative, Enger Mehl, can do enough about this, as well as order it from above. I think it's important here that the professional community be free to find out what's the best facts. It's easy to point out that here it's observed one thing and another, but it's also important to bear in mind that we have some experience with this. It turns out that that kind of thing isn't always completely accurate. It's e.g. quite demanding to see the difference between a first-year coal and a second-year coal with bear twins, and if one has observed errors, get a wrong number. As far as I understand from the title of the Document 8 proposal, a correct number of bears, and then one should use the best method. I think the method we have today is the best. But it's not because I've decided for it politically, it's because our professionals tell me.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2098	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2103	I have to say that I am both surprised by the debate and very disappointed by the Progress Party and the Labour Party, who are sitting here in the Chamber and are completely silent, and who have accepted a majority position that ignores all the facts. We are not trying to present a proposal now to create unrest or anything else. We promote a proposal because people living in areas with a lot of bears come back to us that it is problematic to experience that the real population of bear is not consistent with official censuses. And I've already said that during the line change: this is completely concrete, accessible information for everyone. There are four young people in Trøndelag in 2018, and yet they operate with an official figure of 1.8 young people. Then it's no wonder people ask questions about whether today's method is comprehensive. So simple and so logical it really is. Using today’s method, seven adult male bears and seven adult nests in the Trøndelag are recorded in practice for the purpose of registering three juveniles. And you're going to do that with DNA counting that's based on partially voluntary sample collection, which is sent in for analysis. A lot of them are useless. If, for example: is too much fat in the faeces of the bear, it may be difficult to read from the DNA. There is every reason to doubt that today's method is comprehensive. So there's a question if we can get a hundred percent accuracy in a count of bears, and the answer to that is probably no, as it is today. It's e.g. quite a difference in counting the bear and counting the wolf, because with the wolf we have a full overview of the population at all times. We know things down at the individual level, and a lot of people are radiomarked. It's not like that with a bear. We may not get the full picture, but I think it's very special that the large number of people can't at all take seriously that people doubt that today's method is comprehensive. Now, in addition to the proposal for a representative, we have referred to very specific data that is available to absolutely everyone and that is not something that we have intended to or heard. These are official data that are on robbowbase.no, which the Council of State could also have looked at, and to which the majority of population could have looked. It's incredibly frustrating once again – and especially in a matter like this, where there's a concrete proposal, which would really only have helped the administration to get better and more right if you had managed to find a slightly better method, and take people a little more seriously, so that people could be behind – is charged with trying to create unrest and to doubt research and facts. That's not the case. I'm very disappointed that the bulk of the population takes the attitude that they do. I believe that everyone had been served that they had tried to meet each other on this and find a better counting method.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2120	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2136	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to the members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2143	The National Audit Office has submitted a report on the management of wild game in Norway. This is a topic that creates a lot of political debate and is important to our communities, especially in areas where predators come close to people's everyday lives. I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for its excellent cooperation. The report describes the implementation of the stock target Stortinget has seen for predatory game, the zone management between predatory game and grazing and how the killing of predatory game works. The report draws particular attention to the challenges of reindustry and to the lack of environmental management knowledge of both cause and effect of prevention measures. This has been of great interest to the Committee and to most people. We have held a separate hearing on 25 November in 2019. In the hearing, there were many points of view that the Committee had taken into account in its opinion. I appreciate the fact that a large majority in the committee have agreed that the Riksrevision has chosen a narrower input into the assessment of Norwegian wild game management. I expect that the minority in the Committee itself will present its views. Crustaceans are one of many species that are affected by the use of land. I am particularly critical of the Riksrevision's assessment of whether grazing industry in Norway is viable. It may be easy to look at national statistics on the number of ovine animals and the number of grazing animals lost to wild game. The numbers may look nice nationally, but locally there may be major and regional predatory disasters. It may not be said to be a good management example that the number of injuries to grazing animals declines, when the cause is a sharp decline in the number of grazing animals, because there is no defence against the continuation of grazing animals due to predatory pressures. Even if the number of sheep and lambs on the outback has been stable, there has been a sharp decline in several areas, even where grazing is a priority. The close balance between grazing animals and predators in the individual areas is due to the need for and local assessment of predatory wildlife subjects. It is dramatic when collecting predatory pressure in individual areas is so great that it challenges the Sami culture with reindeer. This report would have been more interesting if one had chosen a broader assessment of whether the predatory game management met the frameworks, targets and control signals of the Stortinget side, which form the basis for Norwegian predatory game policy, and whether Norwegian wild game management functions as a whole. The National Audit Office could have considered the circumstances in which the forest game management in Norway is very conflicty, and should have done so, among other things. assessed: how the government in practical management follows up the Storting's agreed stock targets for predators and how the use of stock targets as interval targets works the reasons why grazing has been abandoned or severely reduced in bear sole and wolfesona; on the withdrawal of the principle of zone management by the government when, in pasture-priority areas, it is set up to fence individual wolf males and individual bear denariuses whether the methods used for the extraction of wild game are good enough to allow the extraction to take place rapidly and efficiently and not least as preventive; on the availability of means for the prevention of predatory measures is large enough to cover the real costs and additional work of these measures if the deer management has fulfilled the Storting’s obligation to pay full compensation to those who have lost domestic animals and domestic animals of the wild game; whether social interests other than grazing have been adequately addressed in those areas of the country with high predatory pressures; We need good audit reports in the field of political debate. It is clear from the poaching policy that Storting's looting settlement has not been followed up by the government. We would like the Riksrevision to look at how the Stortinges decision has been implemented and how the broad policy works. I think such an extended report would be a good starting point for a good debate on the robberies deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2186	The management of predators is a demanding area. On the part of Storting, we have stated that we have a two-part objective – that we should have sustainable predator strains while at the same time having a grazing industry that is actually viable. There is no doubt that it is challenging to manage such a two-part objective. That is why I would like to say from the Labour Party that we think it is good that the Riksrevision has taken control of the administration and gone through it, while there would have been an advantage with a broader review, which was also discussed by the case-rapporteur. The level of conflict in these issues is quite high. While it may be a good idea to have wide-ranging settlements to take account of different considerations, this is the case. The national audit has made some findings – such as that the stock target has been achieved in part, but that we have a high predatory load in some areas, that the zone management does not function fully according to the assumptions, that the reindeer industry carries a particular size, and that the fall in damage is not very effective. Not least, the study shows that the Ministry of Climate and Environment and predatory wildlife disagree very much on the interpretation of large parts of the legislation and the rapprochement. The last one is demanding. In central Norway and the Nordic countries, there has been a very large disagreement that goes back many years in time. The majority of the Committee is quite clear that it is important that the principle that the names should be able to adopt their plans is followed and that the department should respect the decisions taken. This is also about trust. It may seem that trust is becoming increasingly fragile, making it more difficult to achieve the goal we have. When the committee had a hearing, we were able to see the tension in the discussion about predatory game policy. That's not the discussion we're going to have here today, but precisely because there's so much concern about the game management, the Riksrevision could go through a larger range of issues, and it's also in the comments of the majority of the committee. In the hearing, we received clear feedback that the Riksrevision should also look at more things, such as social interests other than grazing animals, while the grazing industry was clear that the Riksrevision should be thoroughly involved in the challenges it has faced, and also looked more at the stock objectives. The majority go so far in the comments that it is particularly critical to the assessment made of the viability of the grazing industry in Norway. In any case, what is becoming important in the future is that the government clears up what the Riksrevision has pointed out, and follows up the recommendations made – such as ensuring effective harm-reduction and making a proper assessment of the distribution of national stock targets between management areas. Finally, I would like to stress in particular the recommendation to provide clarifications between the predators and the environmental authorities. We cannot have the ongoing conflicts we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2209	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office very much for his good cooperation. In the press release in connection with the presentation of the report, the Riksrevision said that the predatory game management is too weak to manage. Differences were noted between predatory and environmental authorities as regards the design and location of zones as a priority for predatory and grazing animals. For a long time, there has been some unrest and disagreement about predator management and the predatory game zones. This was also evident during the hearing we had during the examination of the case. As has already been mentioned, the majority of the Committee considers that the Riksrevision has chosen a slightly narrower approach when considering Norwegian wild game management. It would have been desirable to have a broader assessment of the compliance of the predatory game management with the framework, objectives and governance signals used by the Stortinge to support the predatory game policy. The National Audit Office could also have considered more clearly what contributes to such a high level of conflict in the management of robbers. The conflicts are very much about interpretations of the stock targets for wolves and yorks, especially when seen in the context of the Nature Diversity Act. It is clear to the right that the stock targets adopted by the Storting must be respected and that there must be consequences for the harvesting of predators overfilling the stock target, especially in priority grazing areas. The hearing invited a wide range of representatives from the grazing industry, the environments of competence in the field of predatory game management and natural research, predatory wildlife subjects, nature conservation associations, NOAH – for animal rights and the ministry, at the Minister for Climate and Environment. The conflicts around the stock targets were clearly identified in the hearing. There was a different interpretation of the Storting Decision and the two-part objectives of sustainable predatory game populations and a viable grazing industry. The representative of NINA, who represents the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research, said: ‘The major overall challenge is that the decision of the Storting is demanding to implement, simply because we are dealing with wild animals, and wild animals need large areas and do not deal with political decisions and zones.’ The representative of the Farm thought that grazing was effectively eradicated in breeding zones for bears and wolves. The areas are ‘more and more similar to a reserve’, with the increase of several predators, and Hedmark was used as an example, with fifteen juveniles of yours in the last year, while the stock target is five. Pasturage in these areas is practically impossible. The right is concerned that the decision of the Storting and the two-part objectives of sustainable predatory wildlife populations and a viable grazing industry are being followed up. It involves the rapid killing of pests in grazing priority areas. The aim must be to reduce conflicts and to have confidence in management and those who will ensure that policy decisions are implemented. The emphasis must be on regional governance and respect for ownership and the quality of life of individuals and communities. It has to work with trust between management and industry. In the hearing, the Council of State said that he would follow up the report and recordings that have come, and that promises well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2229	Like previous speakers, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation and the rapporteur for a good report. It's probably right to say that there's no case that engages and makes as many emotions as predatory politics. There have also been several cases in the past today. These are things that engage, where several things stand up against each other. There is no doubt, either, about the position of the Progress Party in predatory policy. That is why it is clear that we are behind the comments of the Committee majority in this matter. Like the previous speakers, I agree that the Riksrevision could have been much wider in its assessment in order to get this in place. It is the decision of the Storting and the follow-up of this decision by the Government of the Riksrevision. Pasturage is important for the cultural landscape and biodiversity. The grazing industry is also a central part of Norwegian food production and self-storage. The population of wild game often threatens the grazing industry in some areas of Norway. The conflict is very much about interpretation. Therefore, it is so important that the decision of the Storting is followed up. As the representative Eva Kristin Hansen was in the room, we have the predators, who are free to adopt the management plan for predators. It has to be maintained. I think it is important to stress that the department here must have respect for the decisions taken by the predators. It may not be possible for the Ministry of Climate and Environment to have a general possibility of over-testing the topics. If that happens, it will also increase the mistrust of this field. It is therefore important for us in this matter, even though the Riksrevision could have been wider in its assessment, that the decision of the Stortinge is maintained, and that the Ministry follows up this, so that we can manage to achieve sustainable diversity, with both good grazing and the stock of predators that should be but that does not threaten the food production that is important in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2240	This national audit report is a balanced report, which provides a picture of a predatory game management that works mainly well but has some areas where there is a need for improvement. I can draw up one thing I've been concerned about, and it's about the management of Sami business interests, which are also culture-bearing, to mention something. Then I understand that other considerations than the actual themes of the survey are relevant to the predatory game policy, such as other business interests beyond the grazing industry. SV has joined a comment on this that takes note of that. Nevertheless, there is reason to point to the actual purpose of the study — the themes covered by the report — that the Committee has addressed. It's very important that we reach the stock targets that are set for predatory game. We must comply with the provisions of the Nature Diversity Act and the obligations we have under international conventions for viable populations of predators. It could be emphasised in the Committee's opinion that these obligations are also a fundamental part of the Stortinget's intention to ensure the management of wild game. I think the list that the Riksrevision itself starts with in the report, which points to all the assumptions that they are going to look at whether the administration is actually following up, would be more likely to be present in our position. Then there are some comments from the National Audit Office that we may be particularly concerned about in SV, namely the responsibility of the government and the Ministry of Climate and Environment to follow up on the fact that the administration of the subjects is in line with, among other things. international commitments. It has been decided by the Storting. In this report, there is considerable disagreement, lack of clarification between regional authorities and the department. So in order to take care of both industrial interests, the use of land for grazing, which is important for natural landscapes and employment, and to take care of our predators in line with the international responsibility we have, the administration must be effective and follow up international obligations. It must also be the objective of the examination of this report by the Control Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2253	The National Audit Office’s report shows, first and foremost, that the forest game management in Norway is working well. Robbery management has a two-part objective: to ensure the sustainable management of wild game populations and to take into account the pursuit of activities and other societal interests. The main industries are grazing, affected by the wild game populations, and in particular the sheep industry and the domestic industry. More than 2 million sheep and lambs are released on pasture in Norway each year, and about 100,000 sheep are lost every year. 20 pst. from which are taken by wild game, while other animals die as a result of accidents and diseases. In recent years, the figures for both documented and substituted loss of grazing animals to peaceful predators have fallen sharply. The number of prey losses is more than halved from 2007 to 2018. Some areas in some years have experienced a greater strain, but the overall picture is perfectly clear. We need more knowledge. The national audit considers that the knowledge of various causes of loss in grazing animals is insufficient. In order to maximise the accuracy of substitution measurement, conflict mitigation and to be able to apply as precise a measure as possible, it is important that such knowledge is put in place as quickly as possible. Regional predatory game management is at the heart of today's predatory game policy, and it is important that predators have the primary responsibility for their regions. The Ministry of Climate and Environment shall have a high threshold in order to verify the plans drawn up by the persons concerned. At the same time, the ministry as a superior body and responsible for the decision of the Storting must provide for more rapid clarifications of any disagreement, because it is unfortunate when long-standing uncertainties arise about important matters, such as the zoning of each region. I know that my colleague in the Ministry of Climate and Environment is committed to finding good solutions to these questions. The national audit also questions whether the measures implemented and planned to reduce predatory loads in the reindeer industry are sufficient. At the same time, there is a large gap between research and the reindeer industry’s own perception of the challenges. We believe that it is necessary to clarify what are actually the most effective measures, before we can put more measures into the industry. We have signed the Berne Convention, and we have the Law on Nature Diversity. We have undertaken to take care of nature. Robbery policy must be in line with the international commitments we have. Loss of nature is as great a threat as climate change, and predators have a very important role to play in natural ecosystems. We need a predictable policy to reduce the conflict between domestic animals and predators, and those affected by the loss of grazing animals must receive good compensation. Nutrient activities using Norwegian nature must also respect and adapt to the nature they use. To the extent that predators and animal husbandry are not compatible, Norway’s obligations to maintain viable predatory game strains must go ahead, combined with preventive measures and financial compensation for operators affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2270	A thorough analysis of predatory management has been carried out by the National Audit Office. I think that the audit points to, is management that mainly works well, but they also suggest more attention and follow-up of some elements. I also note that the Committee has comments both on the Riksrevision report and on the Robbery administration. With a two-part objective of both predatory and grazing, it is not possible to come from the fact that there will be damage to grazing animals. Nevertheless, the numbers show that we have succeeded quite well in the last few years. The loss of sheep to predatory game is about halved. The wolf and yew stocks are slightly larger than the size of the stock. Bear and gupe are well below the set stock. The king is inside the target. An important part of the work ahead is to ensure the growth of the populations of globular and black bears and the reduction of the populations of wolf and yerv, within the legal frameworks of the Stortinge have joined and agreed. The number of sheep on pasture is much higher today than at the time before predators again settled widely in Norwegian nature in the 1980s and 1990s. More than two million sheep graze today in the field, and even in several of the kingdoms of solid wild game populations, there are more sheep today than it was before. Even within the wolfesona, a study by the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy shows that the negative trend has turned around and that there are more sheep on pasture today than it was in 1999. The figures show that in 1999 there were about 30,000 sheep within the wolfessona, against nearly 34 000 sheep in 2017, but with an operational form that is adapted to the wolf in the area. When it comes to reindustry, there are several challenges. Even if there is no doubt that predators are taking tamrein, the research that the Riksrevision suggests is that predators are only part of the loss picture. Unfavorable climatic conditions, the density of pure and grazing grounds are more decisive for production and loss, and more important factors than predators to explain the loss of both calf and crop pure. However, I am fully aware of my part of the responsibility to contribute to improving the situation of the reindeer plant and have, among other things, put forward proposals to Stortinget to move parts of the Gaupe population from our northernmost part of the country to the region of South Norway. The established systems for, inter alia: monitoring of wild game populations and the follow-up of pests to grazing animals are of high quality. I always want to look for possibilities to make the administration even better, and I think the Riksrevision points to several points that it is wise to follow up. I have already addressed several of them with concrete actions and seen processes towards new changes, and several of them I have recently presented in a separate proposition that Stortinget currently has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2289	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2295	Thank you for the introduction to the Council of State. On the part of the Labour Party, we are convinced that it is right to have viable populations of the four major predators, and we also record, as the Council of State pointed out, that the Riksrevision report points out that the population is too high for some and too low for others – and that both of them require measures to achieve this. It's a broad predatory settlement, although it hasn't exactly been the priority position of the Left. Fortunately, there is a very broad settlement in the Storting, where we agree to take care of the big predators. Then I want to ask the Council of State a little bit about the strategy for that, because my belief is that playing on the moderate forces is what can lead to a slightly less conflict-oriented conservation of nature. On the outside of Stortingen, there was a demonstration in which 4,000 demonstrated that the Stortingen decision was to be followed up – not a demonstration against robbers, which some presented it as, no, in order for the Stortingen decision to be followed up. Does the council agree that it's a little interesting that we get such a demonstration, and will he follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2304	The predatory debate is polarized, and in this way I agree with the representative that it is important to build up under the moderate forces. Fortunately, they're in multiples, and I also want to add: they're more and more. When it is still claimed that the level of conflict is increasing, etc., it is simply not true. On the contrary, we see that when we get out the polls, there are more and more people who don't think there are too few predators, or that there are too many of them, but that what we do today is pretty appropriate. That's a good sign. Then our job is to follow up predatory game likes, completely independent of who's been on them. We're going to follow up on the Storing Order. But what I want to add is that it's probably a part that's conscious or unconscious of the notion that predatory game likes to say something other than what they say, for example. natural disasters and the Berne Convention are set aside. They don't. They say we should follow them in the administration. It is agreed by Stortinget, and I follow up everything that the Stortinget decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2311	When the Council of State says that the conflict is getting smaller and smaller, it may not have been what we got through the hearing. But it's good if the Council of State wants to play on the moderate forces, because it's for example. some who claim that the demonstration that was on the outside here was a demonstration from predators. Perhaps there were some of them there, but the slogans were at least: Follow the decision of the Storting. That's why I want to drill into it, because I'm convinced that it's the best strategy for nature, and I challenge the Council of State once again, because there's no doubt that his predecessors have contributed more to provocation than to brewing. Then I want to give the council the opportunity to also confirm that he will actively follow up the Storting's intention in terms of the populations that are too large, as in terms of the populations that are too small.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2318	I can confirm that I will follow up both the Storting decision and the Storting intention, as expressed by decisions in Stortinget. Something else would be contrary to my duties as the Council of State and would quickly have our illegal management decisions. So I'll do that, of course. Now this is a complicated piece of law, and it is in the image that we now have an ongoing legal process, at least a case that is anchored from the right of the teamman to the Supreme Court, where the right of the teamman has stated that the Ministry of Climate and Environment has not gone too far in not shooting wolves in line with the decision of the Storting, but the opposite. It illustrates that this is quite a legal requirement, but it doesn't necessarily illustrate that our decisions do not follow what many people want. It illustrates that the majority of people want it, not based on what is said in demonstrations or slogans, but by decision. Natural disasters, the Berne Convention, stockpiles – all of this is part of the decisions that predators are made to do, that we are set to do, and that ultimately the courts have to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2327	Now there's an opportunity not to have a long time to discuss the possibility of making the legal basis clearer when it comes to the fact that the stock target is an independent basis for doing what the council said he would do, making sure that we stick around on the stock target. The representative Nävra was earlier concerned with something that is very correct, and that makes the game management difficult, and that is that the bear has very low reproduction rates, while the wolf has very high reproduction rates. And it's just the high number of reproductions that contribute to the fear that one does not follow the decision of the Storting, also that once the goal has been pursued, one should keep that level. That's just the fear that's there. So I hope the Council of State can confirm that he takes the consequences of what he said in his introduction, that even with regard to the stock targets that are too high, action will be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2334	Yes, we're controlling by the stock targets, both where stocks are too low and where they are too high. But I would also like to stress that it is not just what is included in e.g. a decision on killing. It is also included, for example: the extent to which we are within or outside zones, it forms part of the extent to which the decision would threaten the survival of the stock, cf. natural disasters. I also believe that the Labour Party is in agreement, because they both advocate and vote for that law, and that is part of it here. But I follow as a state council what the Storting wants me to do, and decide that I will. And that's exactly what the Riksrevision is investigating: is it that the government follows what the Storting has said? That's the job of the National Audit Office. I feel that they say essentially that we do. Then I also have to add that when the committee chooses to use very much of the speaking time and the setting of criticizing the Riksrevision, it is something I do not see every day. Sometimes it's the map there's something wrong with it, it's very rare terrain, and I don't think it's here either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2341	The council says that one of the most closed good things, that it is good with grazing animals, and that it has been less loss. There is not much that provokes so much for those who are in areas where the grazing animals have been lost, precisely because a person often does not cope mentally with the challenge of grazing animals in predatory game areas. One of the big issues and challenges I think are increasing conflicts is that one is not allowed to take effective withdrawals, which are also referred to by the National Audit Office when there are pests. A knowledge of experience that a ready to take out pests is the prevention response that is the major challenge. I can give a example in Sogn and Fjordane, the state council, last year, where they didn't take preventive measures. Would the State Council like to take action to speed up the prevention of withdrawals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2348	I hear it is claimed that it is provocative that I refer to the facts – it should not be. That's how – and there's a few of them about – there's more sheep on the graze now than it was before. It's also inside the wolf's son. That's half of loss. If one can provoke it, I can't quite understand it. That's the way it is -- and I have to talk the truth to Stortinget. When it comes to efficient withdrawals, we're occupied with it -- there's no doubt about it. When animals do harm, a rapid decision shall be taken on the basis of which it is based and one shall take out a clearer as quickly as possible. One was mainly closed, decisions were made very quickly, and in all cases, most of the cases were closed in taking out the predators that do harm. Then there is an example of an unclosed -- that's right, because it's demanding hunting in often demanding terrain. The example of the wolf that has been out in the sea region of Sogn and Fjordane is one such example. He was granted permission to hunt, but one has not been able to take him out. But it's so that there shouldn't be wolves in that area, and it also took the administration's consequence and gave permission for killing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2357	The challenge was that it was too long before they were allowed to take that animal out, and they would have liked to know if they had got it in time. We've got a grip today: we've both been hunting with dogs and other things that can make this more effective, if that's the will to do it. When I said it was provocative – include everything I said: I said it was provocative for those who sat there and have lost their pastures because they can no longer use them. Then there should be a certain understanding that they have kept the grazing animals by layers, but they may have moved in monthly layers, and one has a whole valley today that is without grazing animals, precisely because it is not possible to keep it by layers anymore. So I think there's a lot here that can do with effective extractions, if one follows faster the predators and will use the tools that it's possible to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2362	I can understand to this extent that people are dissatisfied with the fact that they have to comply with the decision of the Storting. But it's the decision of the Stortinge that we have a wolf zone, that there's a difference between the management within the son and outside the son, and that within the son, it means that sometimes the operation has to be changed in other ways, for example. using more inward leggings. We are also very supportive of this. But it's the Biggest thing that's made up of it, it's not me, and we're following the Biggest policy. Back to the wolf in the sea region: It has been opened for licensing in that area – both in 2018, 2019 and this year. That fall in licence continued until 31 May, and it has also been a series of attempts at damages. This spring, the Directorate-General for the Environment has given a two-fold pass on to that wolf – the last time a permit in force from 30 April to 9 May, and the State's nature oversight will assist the local harm-reduction team in the form of an equipasis with a tracking dog if it is targeted. I'm a little uncertain about what more management could do in this case, but we can never guarantee a successful hunt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2369	Speaking of what the Storting has decided: The Storting has decided that the Ministry of Climate and Environment has a specific responsibility to follow up decisions taken by the Roofing Wildlife Department – that they comply with international obligations. An area where the Riksrevision actually comes up with criticism – which may be interesting that the debate is also about – concerns the department, which is criticised for not following this responsibility well enough when over many years they have not resolved their disagreement with the regional management plans for wild game. Some regions do not have a management plan for a long time, for example: because the Directorate for the Environment points out that the plans will not meet the stock targets. Does the Council of State share this criticism, and what will the government do to ensure that this is clarified more quickly in the coming time?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2375	In any case, it is a criticism that we of course take on – like all criticism from the Riksrevision. I would like to point out that it is actually the opposite of the criticism the majority in the committee is targeting the government in dealing with this matter, where one thinks we should intervene to a lesser extent. I'm reading the Riksrevision so we're going to play a more active role. In any case, the fact is that we are very reluctant to go into what we think should be the responsibility of the predators, including the adoption of plans. It's very rare that we go in there, but it's happened in some cases. For example, as the Storting is familiar with, we have the plans for region 7, because one doesn't have a successful administration there, with too much yerv outside the areas that are prioritised for you, because those areas aren't well enough owned. This is an example of how to find a better solution. But of course we read the report to the Riksrevision with interest in this area. It's not all that works well enough today, and it's an example of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2382	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2389	There are several people who have mentioned it with the Riksrevision and the approach deira. The national audit skipped several fields within the predatory game management that are not working properly and that are clearly stated in the predatory game agreement, or that Storting has expectations of how it should work. Then I would like to point out, among other things: on the challenge of genetic viability for wolves and yerv. When it comes to you, NINA has a report, 1255, where they have documented that there is a good exchange of yerv in South Norway. They write that the denominators are happy to let the small population in the western regions expand, so that he is now linked to the main population in Scandinavia. At the same time, government has succeeded in its aim of preventing the spread of yours in the western and southern states of Norway. When you were saying that you were eradicating first in the 1970s, and the population is now far above the target, we must say that he is viable, and that it is good governance for this, as I interpret it. When it comes to wolves, they also do not problem that the stockpiles of wolves are far above what the Storting has decided, and that the pressure from the wolf now comes more and more outside the wolf's son. Why isn't the Riksrevision more critical of the fact that we're above the target for both wolf and yerv, and that wolf is one of the most conflict-filled we have in predatory game management? And it wasn't demonstrated outside of Stortinget twice in the last years to eradicate the wolf, but to manage the stock target. The Riksrevision should have both problematised and pointed out. Some others point to the fact that licensing functions to control most of the predatory wildlife populations, but that harm is less effective. Inferno is often almost useless, many say, and we have a lot of evidence of this. It is also a challenge with the licensing agreement because the municipal licensing teams are not allowed to use the necessary resources. It is stated in the Robbery Agreement under 2.2.4: ‘In cases where licensing fails to provide satisfactory clearance, the environmental management shall, as far as possible, ensure that the remaining quota is taken out in the areas where the licence pooling quota is granted. Withdrawals in what are defined as priority grazing areas in the individual regions by the wild game denominators are prioritised.’» This does not follow up with the environmental management or department, so it creates conflicts, and that should have been pointed out by the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2407	So the national audit has looked at how predatory policies have worked, whether they have been successful or in some way have been a failure. They had probably never taken that word in their mouths, but that is to the extent the mission in terms of the goal set by the Storting. So we have to say that within the framework of the stock targets and the overall objective, the management has largely been successful. That is, there are sheep grazing as before, or as never before. We have a minimum of predatory populations, which are kept for a minimum year after year, as before. Loss rates have fallen dramatically in recent years, they're almost halved. In fact, there have been more sheep in freezing stores than has been documented by predators in recent years. What we must be honest about is to bring down the level of conflict. Now it's said from the council that yes, maybe we've got something down. I'm very much in doubt about that. Much is due to many of the questions and debates surrounding the predatory wildlife subjects. They have largely tried to keep stocks as low as possible within what is possible, and still slightly below it again. Then there would be a lot of trouble, natural enough. There will be appeals, there will be appeals, and then there will be legal proceedings. On page 10 of the Riksrevision report, the Riksrevision sees the need for: ‘point out that the regional predators are State names, and thus the Ministry of Climate and Environment has the overall responsibility for maintaining national predatory measures when coordination at regional level is not working’. That's it, and this isn't all predators, I think, who are aware of, or all locals who are aware of. This creates conflict, of course it does. We must be able to establish that the system of predatory wildlife in small regions has not been directly successful. I want to mention another point, to get this level of conflict down. That's a point I've been asking for many times in this debate, and that's knowledge. I am convinced that knowledge will bring down the level of conflict. I guess there's no other thing, I think, that's been discussed here in the hall, where the feelings are stronger than the facts. Once again, I demand – I have made it several government councils – that the administration be more involved when there are day-to-day debates in the media where there are obvious factual errors, and there are factual errors, and then there are factual errors again. It requires some resources. The SNO Nature Guidance Service, State Environmental Protection Agency, was slimmed down. But could the Council of State, if he has the opportunity to respond to this, say a little bit about whether he could imagine an information group, or otherwise use the office for information?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2425	I think it is provocative to listen to how the Council of State from the Left and also the SV, really, is constantly trying to underestimate the severity of the predatory problem to those affected by and living with predators, the extent to which it is to operate with grazing animals taken by predators, and the extent to which that problem is actually in the areas that are exposed, for example. in Wolfesona, where I come from. I am very pleased that the majority in the Committee emphasises the criticalness of the National Audit Office's assessment of the viability of grazing, and that particular attention is drawn to the need to warn against looking blindly at the numbers and statistics of how many sheep there are in this country, because it can complicate large local and regional predatory wildlife disasters. – I thought that was very well said, because that is precisely the case. I think it's rather parochial that the state council again, it also did the previous state council up and in mind, stands and airs out that there have become so many more sheep in the wolf'sona. He says there are several sheep grazing. Yeah, there's more sheep on the inland side, but it's the outland side that's the center here -- that's what we're talking about. When the number of sheep that have been killed by wolves in the wolf's son has fallen, it is because there are no sheep left on the field. It's quite serious. It's about whether we want to use our natural resources to produce food. It is about whether we want viable communities also in the wolf zone, whether we want culture and traditions to be kept in claim, and whether we want to have good animal welfare, as good animal welfare as possible. There are many things that are problematic about today's predatory management, and one of the things that the Riksaudition legally points to is that you don't have an effective enough harm trap. That should be addressed and better solutions found. This can be done in cooperation with those involved in the field of harm-reduction, for example: in the North East Valley, which has a lot of experience, trying to record all the time to the Department and to the Environment Directorate on how to do this in a better way. Then the department must listen to it. Then you should map out the cost of the wolf management, from farmers to the level of the state council. I wonder if we would have accepted the madness we're dealing with, if we had known how expensive it really is when you sum up – everyone sitting on office jobs with this, all the costs associated with damage traps, failed attempts to kill, loss of predators, etc. and, in addition, the human burden that comes with it. In addition, you have to end with the protection of the genetically important wolf, which goes all the way across the predatory game settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2442	The treatment of wild game is controversial. There are shared opinions on the policy area. It is not so strange, given that the objectives of taking care of both predators and grazing animals are initially conflicting considerations. It is a pity, however, that in the predatory game debate, very strong claims are often made about what the world looks like and how the problems should be solved, without the assertions being verified, neither through research, monitoring of the population, nor investigation of injury to grazing animals. An example is that the majority of the vote assumes that ‘more than one of three reincalves are taken by predators’. It is difficult to see the basis for such a claim if one goes further into what has been described by the National Audit Office in the evidence of claims and claims and in the scientific work that was also explained by a committee hearing on 25 November. For example, according to the Agricultural Directorate’s figures, this was the case. born 150 000 reindeer calves in the reindeer year 2018/2019, while in the same year claims for 13 500 calves were paid as losses for predatory game. I don't know where the numbers in the setting are taken from, but maybe it's that all the losses, regardless of the cause of the loss, are included in the numbers that are reported as robberies. In any case, this is challenging, both because it gives the impression of even greater challenges, and because the measures will less improve the situation of reindeer if the starting point is wrong. In the report of the sheep industry, the majority have also made a claim that ‘farming in pastures, so to speak, has been eradicated in several counties, which is largely due to predatory game management’. Furthermore, the majority believe that the Riksrevision should have assessed ‘what are the reasons why grazing is so said to be abandoned or severely reduced in bear soles and wolfesonas, contrary to the statements made several times by the Stortinge’. Here's two important points the majority seems to have missed. One is that the NIBIO study shows that the number of sheep in the wolf zone has increased during the period, which is when the wolf was reestablished as a breeding population in Norway. The second point is that the 2011 Robbery Agreement says: ‘In priority tillage areas, sheep production and other off-farm production shall be adapted by preventive measures and conversion, taking into account the presence of prey in the grazing area.’;» Thus, the fact that there is an adaptation to a changed form of operation within priority predatory areas such as the wolf zone is entirely in line with the policy adopted by the Stortinget. There are several such examples, and I would like both the National Audit Office, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and the parties in the Grand Duchy to see more closely what Sweden is doing, because we have common governance. Because it's really small professional environments and a big responsibility, we should coordinate more. Then one would also have seen that the frustration is much, much greater in Sweden, and that in Norway we have succeeded well with the predatory game management we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2462	I want to go so far as to say that one can get the impression that the Environment Administration and the Ministry of Climate and Environment are training to weaken the regional administration and not to follow what the Stortinget has decided. An example is that the licensing agreement does not function optimally, and – in addition to the comments made by the National Audit Office – is based on more or less voluntary work. The means of helping you to succeed with efficient and fast withdrawals are not present to a sufficient degree – for example: use of scooters. It has been reported many times. There's something that environmental management itself uses in its outlets where it happens, especially on yours. Licensing is not hunting or recreational work, as one might get the impression that some mean, but a collapsing job based on licensing quotas that are approved by the state. Then the state should be more involved and make sure that we stick to the stock target that is agreed on as well. There were some grips with the permission to use the lights and cameras, but this is not working. It is clear in the Robbery Agreement: ‘The aim is to strengthen the regional authority of the Robbery Administration.’ This should pose a problem for the audit. Now, when we go through Prop. 90 L from the Ministry of Climate and Environment reports that one will go from eight to six predatory wildlife subjects, it will weaken regional predatory wildlife management. In the Rovviltsgesetz § 5, it says: ‘In each management region, a predatory game name shall have the primary responsibility for the management of gaupe, yerv, bear and wolf. The deer shall implement the adopted national deer policy within its region and shall have close contact with the municipalities and organisations concerned.’;» This becomes difficult with regions larger than Denmark. The birds of prey shall be managed according to the two-sided objectives and the stock target of the single game of prey. They shall be a link between local interests and challenges and departments and shall ensure that parties are heard and understood, while complying with their agreed and approved management plans, which are based on local conditions, knowledge and experience up against exactly what the Storting has decided to do at the time. So it's not the predators who fight about politics, as part of mine. I'd rather claim that it's the directorate and department. Finally, we need a predatory game management that looks at the facts behind numbers, takes people and nutrition seriously, and leads to greater trust across the guidelines and budgets. I want to claim that this is not the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2480	The grazing industry is one of the key areas for Norwegian food production and self-storage — and for busses in the district. Norway is one of Europe's least-cultivated countries, and thus grazing resources, and we talk about grazing resources in the countryside. When it's claimed that the use of pasturage has not fallen, it's about the use of inland, which one can produce other foods on. It's the big challenge. Some of the reason why I took the floor again is that the representative Nävra meant that the predators do not follow up decisions. Now both SV and the Minister are busy listening to the professional competence. NINA was challenged by the robbers to do their work. The Committee sent concrete questions to NINA as to whether there was anything specific they thought that the predators did not follow up and did their mission. So we didn't get one concrete example from NINA. It was a long letter, but without a concrete suggestion as to what they're doing. Then I think that one should let the predators do their work as long as they do it within the frame. Letting the predators work within the framework of the predatory game settlement is the way to dampen the conflict. We need the outreach industry to maintain an active agriculture and make use of resources. I have to say, in particular, that I am concerned about the reindeer industry and the challenges and the losses they have – the difference between the experienced challenge for reindeer-keepers, who are out doing work, and the work of the theorists. If you can't merge and get some reality, we can't get any good results either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2489	Debates on how predatory policies in Norway should be, belong to the Energy and Environment Committee, and they are not too few of them; they are many of them. However, the debate on how policy is, in fact, – signed by the Stortinget, and whether government follows up – is the responsibility of the Control and Constitutional Committee. I have to say that I think most of this debate has tended to deal with the first, simply how politics should be – largely according to the Central Party – and not how he is, signed by the Stortinget. And that's the Riksrevision's responsibility to follow up and watch. A brief example of this is when the representative, Enger Mehl, says that it is clear against the Stortinge's decision that a particular consideration is given to a genetically valuable individual in the predatory game strain. It's completely wrong. I can refer to the 2011 Robbery Agreement point 2.2.11, which says: ‘Decision on the withdrawal of an animal shall be assessed whether movement is possible if the individual is of particular value.’;» It's the government's agreed policy, he's following the government, and of course he's not criticised by the National Auditorate. When the Storting gets angry at the Riksrevision because they don't criticize the government because we follow what the Storing has done, I think it's a little strange to witness. There's a reason why the Storing has agreed, there's so much inbreeding in a part of our predatory strains, especially for wolves, that it's important to take care of genetically valuable individuals if possible. So it is said that we underestimate the seriousness of the situation. Sometimes I get the feeling that the fewer sheep that are taken, the more serious the situation becomes. But when the situation is actually that we've halved the loss of sheep, when the number of sheep on the graze goes up and we keep the stock measure somewhat -- a little over on some, a little under on others -- the situation becomes more and more serious. I found that hard to understand. I don't disagree that the conflict situation is escalating in the staging room or in the newspaper columns, I totally agree with that. But when one asks people what they actually mean, it's so that more and more people don't think there's too few predators, or that there's too many, they think the administration is good the way it is today. Still more are simply some with the government. In this respect, I thought that this debate has a little in common with the EEA debate, which is also constantly escalating both in the newspaper columns and on the Stortinget, but where the large majority of people actually agree with the policy being pursued, and more and more are. To the representative Arne Nävra, who thinks that the government should come along with several information measures to correct factual errors. Of course, I see it as part of my task as the Council of State to participate in the political debate in this area, and then I always try to stick to the facts. But I can start by going with a good example and referring to the setting, where the multiple uses completely wrong numbers when it comes to how many reindeer calves have been taken from predators. What's there is not true, and it could be useful to check with the department before a writing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2505	I can inform the Council of State that what we are debating here is about the functioning of today's predatory game policy, and I think it is quite clear that it does not, and I also believe that the Riksrevision points out for several reasons that it does not. Among other things, the Committee writes: in its observations that it would have been interesting if the Riksrevision had assessed the current stock target, which is designed as a minimum and maximum stock size target, in the case of wolves. The Riksrevision has not looked at this. It is a central point where there is quite a broad political consensus that the government does not follow the adopted policy of the Grand Duchy, because there is a wolf population far greater than that adopted by the Grand Duchy. There have also been several demonstrations outside here, which we have been discussing earlier today, namely demonstrations to follow the adopted policy of the Stortinge. So it's classic that there's going to be a debate about who has the right facts. Among other things, the representative Kjeseth was in on it, with a long list of things that he thought were the wrong facts, and which he thought was very bad standing in the setting. I was not allowed to record them all, but I got along with them, for example. one claim, that it was wrong that grazing in the field has been wiped out in several counties. Then, for example, Kjeseth can. read the report Beitebruk in the wolf zone, produced by NIBIO and AgriAnalyse, where it says so. I think that if you had sat down and looked at the facts, you would have found that there is good evidence for the comments that stand in the setting, and also for the opinions that the Senter party has in the predatory debate, both here and elsewhere. Another example was given in the previous debate, about the stock target for bear, where we were accused of not sticking to the facts. What we pointed out was that there are public data that shows that there are four juveniles for the bear that have been observed in Tøndelag in 2018. This may indicate that there are four juveniles for the bear in Trøndelag in 2018, while the registered population is 1.8. That's what we asked questions about, because there are two conflicting things, which are important to be able to discuss in the management of predators. I believe that the negative line that the Left in particular in the Committee, but also the government parties, which do not recognise the predatory problem, and which does not follow the policy adopted by the Stortinge, is very conflict-provoking. So for anyone who thinks that the conflict needs to be remedied, I think the first thing to do is to start following up the policies adopted by the Biggest – for example. In the wolf zone, as I know well, this applies especially to the stock target for wolves – and to stop training, for example. withdrawals from the wolf, or a democratic anchoring of the wolf management, but rather support the agreed and applicable rapprochement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2516	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2532	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to the members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2539	First, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good and constructive cooperation. In this survey, the National Audit Office has looked at how the authorities are working to meet the Storting's objective of integrating refugees and immigrants into Norwegian society through qualification and participation in work. The findings revealed explain why the targets are not met. The study covers migrants with a refugee background and family reunification between 18 and 67 years of age born in non-EEA and OECD countries. During these years, there were 74 000 refugees living in Norway, and in addition, there were approximately 74 000 refugees living in Norway. 133,000 family members residing on family reunification. The country spends considerable resources on measures to qualify immigrants for work. Nevertheless, employment is too low and unemployment is three to four times higher among immigrants from Asia and Africa than among the rest of the population. It is worrying that such a large proportion of the immigrant population are out of work over time. It's unfortunate for the person in question, and precious to society. Employment and participation in the labour market are an important input to Norwegian society and a prerequisite for economic autonomy. The National Audit Office points to the importance of sound action and better cooperation between the departments and departments responsible for integration. The group of asylum seekers and immigrants is composed and there is a wide variation in skills and work experience. Some are highly educated, some are simply illiterate. The findings of the report are as follows: there is not enough cooperation between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Justice and Defence regarding the identification of asylum seekers in receptions. The housing work is doing well, but it is not always targeted at achieving good integration. The introduction programme does not contribute well enough to education and work on a sustainable basis, and Nav’s actions bring immigrants into work, but employment falls over time. The ‘job balance’ is found to produce somewhat better results than, for example: the introduction programme. Another positive finding is that more people take secondary education through the introduction programme. It can also open important doors into the society of work and higher education. The study shows that the bodies responsible for ensuring the integrity of integration policy do not cooperate well enough. The study reveals, inter alia: lack of monitoring of the reception of residents, delaying integration work. The settlement of refugees with agreed residence is faster than in the past, but the challenge is to provide refugees with an offer of qualifications and jobs. It is worrying that the introduction programme does not succeed enough to ensure qualification for work and education on a sustainable basis. That's why it has to be new. It is very positive that new criteria have been introduced for housing in municipalities with more emphasis on job opportunities and that new measures are being taken. When goals are not achieved, it is important to think again – and some things to think new. Sisters In Business in Asker is a good example. It was started by the two initiators Sandra Tollefsen and Farzaneh Aghalo, who wanted to go new ways to help immigrant women who were struggling to get a job. They set up a social network between women with different and valuable competences, where the motto is: no one can become independent. IKEA, Nav and Asker municipalities have been important partners. Sister's In Business started with a sibling's room at IKEA, where they produce a pre-declaration and a shopping network for sale, and they also accept clothes for repair. Recently another sister was opened. Eleven women have got a job through the project, and five have work training with a goal of a permanent job. In these days, these women actively participate with what our country needs to do, working on bombs to sew vector coats to Norwegian hospitals. In Sisters In Business, participants do not learn to write a CV, but they learn to present a live application by making their own experience and competence visible. They learn about Norwegian working life, rights, duties, attendance and cooperation through ‘learning by doing’. And they're learning Norwegian. Fortunately, the new law of integration focuses more on Norwegian education, education, qualification and work, and that is good. That's why it's important to think new and learn from what works, like projects like Sister's In Business. I think it is a good thing that the government councils responsible say in their comments that they will follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office with better coordination of the instrument between state agencies and the municipalities. Better cross-border cooperation is important between the departments and departments responsible for integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2573	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good presentation of what is essentially a unanimous vote. Although there's a little bit of a split note, there's no direct disagreement. Therefore, I should rather focus my attention on the situation we are in. I'm very concerned about these groups in today's situation with the Corona challenges. It's incredibly important, as reported in the National Audit Office's report, that we are getting better than we are today to analyse the competences that people actually have with them from abroad, because quite a lot of people have. The question is whether it can be converted and approved in Norway. It is important, of course – although the municipalities have the primary responsibility for the teaching of residents, it is part of the educational community of Norway. But not least, because the Minister of Labour is here, we know that employment is lower in these groups than on average in the population, and that very many are employed in low-wage workers. There are a lot of people in these professions who are now on leave, and for some small companies they will be on leave for so long that they might be unemployed because the company is going down. That's why there's every reason to pay particular attention to today's situation, because the National Audit Office has here in an exemplary way made an interesting report, a report that we can learn from. I would also like to ask in particular that we take into account, both in terms of labour market measures, the provision of places of practice, because we know that languages are learned very well by being at work and using the language in the job, and in terms of other benefits, that this group is even more vulnerable than the average of the Norwegian people with the crisis we now have. I hope that the Council of State will include it in both the revised budget and future packages that will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2582	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work and the Court of Auditors for a good and thorough report. In good and bad times, this country has taken on immigrants and refugees who need help and protection from the state of Norway. One important goal when they come here is that they learn to know our society and get work that makes them self-helped citizens of society. The state must facilitate this entirely from the reception of refugees and immigrants into municipalities where they participate in integration programmes and until they meet in a Nav office to get help to get to work. The three departments must then act as a means of healing. Unfortunately, they don't do that today. The most important thing that has to happen after this report is that the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs together assess whether they are working for today's good, they are right, or whether they simply have to think about something new. They also need to assess how the departments, etats and municipalities can cooperate better in the whole process from reception to work. I would also like to point out that the report tells us that some municipalities do better integration work than others. Now, you see, there's no connection between the size of the municipalities and whether they're closing or not. Therefore, the three departments to cooperate must gain experience from the municipalities, both small and large, which will achieve this. This will allow you to find the best cooperation solutions that inspire new and practical grips. The aim of getting into work today is for far more immigrants and refugees. The report points out that Nav’s labour law measures favour positive, but that employment is falling over time. This may give rise to a reassessment of the correctness of Nav's labour law measures. Now that unemployment has been high among many, the way Nav works to get people to work needs to be prioritised. This report on the functioning of today’s work provides a basis for reflection. I hope the departments want to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2595	Thanks to the rapporteur for working well on this audit and for a good review also in his statement of what is mostly a vote by a co-opted committee. That's why I want to spend some time on something that only the red-green parts are on in the setting today. It is worrying that job-seekers have a declining employment rate over time, both for those who have participated in measures and for those who have not participated. Even if they get into work, they fall out again. The report points to a lack of competence as a possible cause and that providing better formal qualifications through training can help prevent this. However, the report also points to the fact that users who participate in work training are most often given jobs in the unskilled labour market, and that weak links with the labour market and poor pay are causes. So to say it in a different and a little bit more direct way, we're talking here about the development of an A and a B team. Those entering the labour market through measures come into a working life characterised by temporaryity, part-time work, recruitment agencies and little organisation. That's why maybe one of the most important things we can do is to make sure that everyone, including those who are new to Norwegian employment, gets to take part in a safe and organized working life with full and regular jobs. It is about political choices in the future that this committee does not deal with. It's not least about the degree of union and stuff. But the basis on which this report is based, as discussed by the Committee, shows just how important it is, and I think that is also good to note in our consideration of this report.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2604	The National Audit Office has carried out a thorough investigation when they have reviewed the efforts of the authorities to integrate refugees and immigrants through qualification for work. Work is an important part of life. It's important for both identity and self-esteem. Work gives income and freedom. At the same time, the workplace is one of our most important Community arenas, and it is particularly important for integration, to get to know each other and to learn languages. The National Audit Office points out that the instrument in the integration field as a whole does not function properly enough. The employment of immigrants is lower than that of the majority population, and many immigrants have so low incomes that it is not possible to provide for themselves, despite the use of considerable resources to qualify immigrants for work. In the years covered by the survey, a number of measures have been taken to strengthen the qualification programme and increase employment. The attempt to integrate, the speedy settlement of refugees with a residence permit and the increased use of educational measures have led to improvements in integration work. Nevertheless, the Riksrevision study shows that while considerable resources are used, there are several weaknesses in the integration chain. This is very serious. Local authorities have a particularly important role to play in integration policy. Through the introduction programme, they shall contribute to ensuring the qualification of education and work on a sustainable basis. The municipalities have an obligation to draw up and follow up an individualised plan for Norwegian training and introduction programmes, but unfortunately the National Audit Office’s review shows that too few people receive individualised programmes. Unfortunately, there are considerable differences between municipalities and, therefore, initiatives were taken in 2016 by the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion to improve the results of the introduction programme and to reduce the differences between municipalities. This has been followed by the Ministry of Knowledge and the IMDI, who have started working with the municipalities that have labored most in this area, so that it can be strengthened. It is serious that many immigrants are outside the labour market or have weak links with the labour market and thus become dependent on public transfers. Work is important for people who come to Norway to be able to participate in society in the same way as others. It's about fundamental freedom, and it's about community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2617	The findings and assessments of the National Audit Office in this report largely coincide with much of what has emerged in a number of other investigations and reports in recent years, and also with the knowledge of the Ministry of Knowledge on the challenges in the field of integration. To meet these challenges, therefore, the government has launched a comprehensive integration reform. In the autumn of 2018, the government presented the integration strategy «Inclusion through knowledge» for the period 2019 to 2022. Education, qualification and work are key areas for this strategy. It has been developed together with other departments which are key actors in the integration field, and there are seven departments responsible for action in the strategy. We also see the need for a review of the overall instrument, as recommended by the National Audit Office, and will initiate such an overall review. An important step in the reform process is Prop. 89 L for 2019-2020, the Education, Education and Labour Integration Act, also referred to as the Integration Act, which was submitted to the Stortinget on 24 April 2020. The Integration Act will replace the Introduction Act, which we have had since 2003. It is an objective that the new law should contribute to the participation of more immigrants and ensure a lasting link with the labour market. The introduction programme shall more clearly fill the gap between the competences of participants when they come to Norway and what is required in the Norwegian labour market. In order to achieve that objective, the Programme shall provide for more formal qualifications for participants in need of it. Furthermore, training in Norwegian and social skills needs to provide participants with sufficient Norwegian knowledge to enable them to enter education or to have a lasting relationship with the labour market. In the proposal, the Norwegian training scheme proposes a change from completed hours to a requirement to reach a minimum level in Norwegian, and it is proposed to introduce a requirement of competence for teachers teaching in Norwegian. In order to provide a more customised offer to individuals, we propose to introduce differentiated programme time for participants in the introduction programme. A central part of the background to the new law has been that there are too many local variations in quality and use of instruments among municipalities, and we see that there are too many municipalities that do not comply with the legislation. It has been pointed out through evaluations and supervision and also by the National Audit Office. We are, therefore, now introducing a requirement of soundness, and this is done to ensure that the provision of the municipality under the integration law is of a certain quality and anchored in expertise and professional guidance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2630	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2646	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President of the case, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2653	Let me start by thanking you for your cooperation in the Committee on this matter. I'm going to present a setting that is unanimous at all points. We take on the seriousness and responsibility of discussing whether some of Norway's languages will survive in the future. It's that serious. There are threatened languages we talk about – northern Sami, but especially lulesamian and southern Sami, which are highly threatened languages. We must ensure that it does not go as it has done with pitesamic and with scholastic or eastern Sami languages, which are no longer regarded as living languages in Norway. In the school year 2018–2019, 2875 students received education in or in Sami. That number suggests, especially for the smallest languages, that there are seriously threatened languages we are talking about. There are 92 municipalities that teach Sami, 12 of them teach Sami. One of the problems is that many people who could have been entitled to Sami either as first language or as primary language of instruction are simply not familiar with this right. Of course, this applies to the many municipalities where there are not many with a Sami background. That's why we believe it's important that the children are already made aware of their rights in kindergarten, because it turns out that those who have and are able to assert their rights are actually given the education they are entitled to. This means that municipalities must ensure that people are informed about their rights. Distance learning was provided to 340 students in 2017–2018. For the best providers of distance learning – such as Kautokeino, where we were visiting – it can be an example of a very good offer where the possibilities to acquire Sami competence in their own teaching skills are limited. But there's also a great variation in quality, and in NOW 2016: 18, the heart language, it was underlined that having the opportunity to gather is important in order to develop the Sami language when a person is only given distance learning. There is a shortage of Sami teachers. There's a big job done from college and others trying to recruit for Sami education. Of course, in the smallest languages it's hard to recruit, but at the same time it's like having success in recruiting a few extras will have a very big impact on education and therefore also on the survival of language. Examples were given in Northern Ireland, where County, Northern Ireland County, University and Sametinget have worked well and focused together to get those with good Sami skills to choose teacher training. There I would like to mention one thing that was mentioned to us – I think it was both at college and in Sametinget – namely that the requirement of competence in mathematics can sometimes prevent those who have a real and natural relationship with Sami being given the opportunity to specialise as Sami teachers. It is something we believe the Council of State should consider whether pragmatic solutions can be chosen for. The last challenge is learning material. It turns out that the Sameeting has unused funds – 65.3 million out of 97.1 million. kr that are intended to design learning material – but they have challenges to find those who are going to write the textual material, and they also sometimes use translated material, which requires resources to be made available. One thing they pointed to, and we may not think about when, in the Great Britain, we think about what future curricula should look like, is that every time we change the curriculum, it's actually so that part of the badly needed Sami material can get out of date. That's why we have to take if we're going to take seriously the social responsibility we have to contribute to the survival of the Sami languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2670	Language engages us, and it does involve me. It is crucial for communication between us, it is essential for identity, and it is not least crucial for cultural construction. There is no doubt that being a minority language in a country is challenging. It might be extra challenging for the Sami languages, because there are three languages, that is, both lulesamian, southern Sami, and northern Sami. The National Audit Office points to some challenges in training in and in Sami. Thank you to the case rapporteur, who has done an excellent job on this matter, and to the entire engagement committee, and that we went together to the Sami areas, the Northern Sami correctness, to get with us what was the challenge, find out a little bit more about what is problematic. Several of the things that are pointed out are well known in other matters as well. The merger is responsible for ensuring good training and facilitating it, but it is also the responsibility of others. When we see that it is not well known, it is not the first time we hear about public offers that are not well known. What's particularly demanding for this group is that we don't always know who they are, who should have information that they can demand such a teaching offer, because they have had to register and take their own initiative to a large extent. This can be done better, and then all municipalities in the country must be involved and take their share of that responsibility, from kindergarten to kindergarten. That a new digital solution doesn't work, we've also heard before, in many things. Now we are well in a situation right now where this evolves quickly, in many areas, and we hope that we can also relate to this part of the training. What I just wanted to point out is that we probably felt a little adjective about teaching materials when we were visiting the environments in Finnmark. What was a little daunting was to see that the Ovttas, this digital tool that is located in the middle of these environments, of environments of competence, didn't seem to be known and used by those who needed it. Therefore, it will be extremely important for the Council of States to follow up, to ensure that the pooling is organised and to use its resources in such a way as to make it happen. I have faith that the Council of State will follow up on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2685	We have in this Chamber the fundamental rule that the regimes should facilitate the security and development of the Sami language, culture and social life, and the rule that Sami and Norwegian are equivalent languages. The Sami languages are the lifeline of the Sami culture, and we know that these are true. In particular, this applies to the small Sami languages, lulesamian and southern Sami. Then I would like to thank the case spokesman for good cooperation and good work. The right of the Sami students to training in and in Sami must be real in order for the Sami languages to develop as a living language. Now the National Audit Office has shown that this right will not be used in many places in the country and that there are many challenges to the quality of education. Now something has to be done. I, together with the Committee, expect the Riksrevisions to be taken seriously and followed up. This will be an important task for both the Ministry of Knowledge and the future Sameting, whether teaching is done at school or over the Internet. Many of the Sami lessons are distance learning, and the school has gained new experience in network education for the most recent time that can be used in the work. It is also important that all parties recognise their specific responsibilities in this area, and that the Sameting itself uses its freedom to solve the tasks that Sameeting is responsible for, in the best possible way. The way work is organized so far, don't become a bother to find new solutions. There is a reason to ask if there are many different actors working in such a small field as Sami education. The right to training in and in Sami must be alive in all parts of the country in order for Sami and Norwegian to be experienced as equivalent languages. The way in which work is organised and carried out must be overarching. I want to tell you a little story from when I was at an anniversary at the Sámi University of Kautokeino. One said that when she grew up, parents thought that she would do the best if she did not learn Sami. She didn't learn Sami and didn't think about it that much. Then she experienced having a father who was senile at a young age, and who forgot the Norwegian language. Then she couldn't communicate with her father until she started and learned lulesamic, so she could talk to her father again. It says a little bit about how important it is to be able to learn your mother tongue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2698	This national audit survey is about some very important commitments Norway has towards our Sami indigenous people. According to the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, both Sami, female and romance – romance – have been recognised as regional and minority languages in Norway, thus ensuring a very special level of protection. Language is a cultural carrier – perhaps the most important cultural carrier. Therefore, the effort to ensure that Sami, both northern Sami, southern Sami and lulesamian, are living languages in rich development, absolutely essential, as the 2016 Nou Heart Language has also shown. The ability to learn good quality both in and in Sami for all students who are entitled to this is one of the most important things we can do. I agree with the rapporteur's comments and the good work that has been done, and I refer to the recommendations of the Riksrevision, which the entire Committee supports. We need more teachers. We need to inform students about the right to Sami education. Distance learning needs to be strengthened. And we need to cooperate with the Storting on all of this, and especially on securing good learning materials in Sami. I want to stay a little bit at this particular point about the information to go to the students who are entitled to Sami education, because it concerns in particular all the municipalities outside the very area the committee visited as part of the treatment, all the municipalities outside the Sami core areas of the north. It is a great responsibility to bear in mind that these obligations and these rights apply throughout the country, and that there are very likely students in quite a number of municipalities who are entitled to such education but who do not. When we went with the committee, it was draped around a lot of practical, good solutions for how to get to it, how to inform already at the school start for the first class. There should be a lot of opportunities for education authorities to follow up and create a system so that all the students who have this right get it. It will be a very important contribution for us to be better able to meet our obligations for this language.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2709	Together are the indigenous peoples of Norway, and we have a special obligation to maintain and strengthen Sami languages and culture. Nevertheless, all the Sami languages are threatened. Lulesamian and southern Sami are classified as seriously threatened languages, while northern Sami is classified as threatened. A language is threatened when it is no longer transmitted between generations and it is in danger of disappearing. It's serious, and we see that we need to step up our efforts to help together to keep their mother tongue. It is estimated that there are 100,000 Sami people in Norway today, of whom only 30,000 are in control of Sami languages. The big community is responsible for giving the indigenous culture in Norway the freedom to develop on their own premises. It is therefore important that Sami children feel that Sami and Norwegian are equivalent languages. School and kindergarten play a very important role in this, and therefore we need to facilitate education there. The Training Act gives the right to training in northern Sami, lulesamian and southern Sami throughout the country, but unfortunately the review of the National Audit Office, which we are dealing with here today, shows that there are serious deficiencies in the Sami training offer in Norway. Lack of Sami teachers, Sami educational materials and weaknesses in the offer of training in and in Sami are some of the findings of the Riksrevision. It is positive that those who ask for Sami training receive this to a large extent, but it is not good enough that the information on the offer is as little available as the Riksrevision report shows. In particular, the challenge is that the offer is not well known outside the Sámi core areas and that many therefore do not register or their children as current users of the offer. It has an important responsibility to put in place Sami learning materials, and it is important that they cooperate with the Ministry of Knowledge to get this in place, as well as to make other important assessments of how to preserve and strengthen the Sami languages. Sami culture and history must be more widely known than today for primary school students throughout the country. Local authorities must be encouraged to put in place measures to recruit Sami-speaking employees, both in school and kindergarten and in the health and care sector, and to have good information on the provision of services in the Sami culture. The Sami culture is unique and must be visible throughout Norway. Language is power, but language is also freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2724	The Sami languages are all threatened. Ensuring that Sami students receive good training in and in Sami is important both for the individual student and for the preservation of the Sami languages. The National Audit Office has produced a report based on a thorough data base which will be useful for the Ministry's further work. The national audit considers that the State instruments are not sufficiently effective to achieve the necessary improvements in the Sami school offer. This is a conclusion I broadly agree with and of course will follow up. I would like to comment on the main findings and recommendations of the National Audit Office and how the Ministry of Knowledge will follow them up: The National Audit Office refers to the fact that the rights to training in and in Sami are not well known and recommends that the Ministry of Knowledge assess measures to improve the awareness of these rights. First of all, it is the responsibility of the school owner to inform students about the rights they have under the training law, but I want to engage in dialogue with the KS on how Sami students and their parents can get better information about their rights. This is also a theme that the Ministry will consider in the follow-up to the Training Law Committee’s investigation, NOU 2019: 23. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Knowledge, in cooperation with the County of Troms and Finnmark and the County of Nordland, contribute to the provision of distance education as a good alternative to local education. It is an important recommendation, and I will entrust the Education Directorate with the task of proposing both new measures and further developing existing measures that can help all students who receive training in Sami by means of distance learning receive a good and sound training offer. I would also like to point out that the framework plan for Sami teacher training includes a specific requirement for candidates to have competence in distance learning education. The National Audit Office further recommends that the Ministry of Knowledge follow up on the fact that the measures taken lead to more teachers’ students. Here again, I would like to point out that the recruitment of teacher training is a high priority, and that the department is particularly aware of the development of teacher training in North Norway and the Sami teacher training courses. One important factor in getting more teachers and more to complete teacher training is good professional environments. The trade environments in southern Sami and lulesamic are small and vulnerable, and therefore North University received 5 million. DKK in the State budget for 2020 for the long-term recruitment and professional development of these professional environments. In cooperation with the Sametinget, I will evaluate tools that can help to develop the necessary Sami learning materials. Although this is the responsibility of Sameting, I would like to engage in dialogue to hear if the government education authorities can help improve the educational material situation for training in and in Sami. Finally, the National Audit Service recommends that the Ministry assess how the instruments can be better organised in order to support the school owner’s efforts to ensure a good and equivalent offer. I agree with the objective that all instruments should be effective and ensure a good and equivalent training provision for all students. The use of instruments and the division of labour between the different actors should be evaluated on a regular basis, and this is a work I will assess in dialogue with the Sameting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2745	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2750	I want to be very concrete. As I mentioned, one of the things that was taken up when we were in Sametinget and at college was that they could have good candidates with it for society important knowledge in Sami, but that was prevented from starting their studies because of the competence requirement in mathematics – as an example. Is it possible for the Council of State to avoid this in order to obtain the social forces that are so very few and vulnerable — especially in lulesamic and southern Sami, but also in northern Sami?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2755	Thank you for the question. I think this problem is a little bit more complex than what it's being presented as. It is important to bear in mind that although we are now making some specific character requirements for teacher training, which means that some applicants do not meet the requirements, both the quality requirements and the quality of teacher training in general have led to more applicants. It is a real fear that if you fold on any of these requirements, you will contribute – I believe not alone, but along with possibly more measures – to less attractive teacher training and thus to fewer applicants. So I don't think it's as simple as evading such a requirement makes more people want to be teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2761	I am aware that there is a general discussion about competence requirements. That's not what I want to travel now, but that we have a common responsibility for three languages that are very vulnerable – especially two of them. And we're presented that there are so few candidates to get in touch with: if one of them has 3 in mathematics, but otherwise has special competence in Southern Sami, wouldn't it be good for society if that candidate had the opportunity to study to become a teacher, and then deal with 3 in mathematics?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2766	As I said, I believe that these skills requirements in total have helped to make teacher training more attractive and thus have given us more and better applicants. So the government has always said that we have to be open to discuss and evaluate these requirements – whether they meet correctly or not. I believe it would have been far too early to reverse such a requirement even now – it has seemed too short – but if it should in the long run prove that it does not allow some qualified candidates to take an education that we need them to take, of course, I am very open to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2771	It is good that the Council of State will evaluate and discuss those requirements, but now we have an opportunity to do so. It's the Riksaudition's report, and in connection with that, we've been presented for something that's very concrete. I am not asking for an evaluation of the entire competence requirement, I say, can we make an exception for the needs of society for the hard-to-reach teachers? I'm not talking about reversing the whole reform, it gets others to discuss, but just when it comes to our responsibility for Sami language – they say it could have been an instrument, they've had candidates who don't take the education because of that skill requirement – could the Council of State think of making an exception just for that when we're evaluating training in Sami? That's what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2776	Now I have not recorded that the Riksrevision has pointed to just this as a very painful point in order to get the right competence in teacher training. On the other hand, they have raised the issue of getting enough qualified. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the government is implementing a number of measures to make teacher training more attractive, not least teaching in North Norway, among other things. with a write-down of student loans as a last measure. But as I said, I have signaled that over time we must of course be open to consider any unfortunate consequences of this kind of claim. I want to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2781	It could be tempting to follow up what Andersen's representative had to say. One sees that the whole thing has means standing that they haven't been able to use. Has the Minister thought that there are other ways you can cooperate with the Sameting, to get this on a track where you can make better use of these resources? When it comes to as vulnerable and small languages as this, it is important to use all means to be able to lift and secure that education.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2788	Thank you for the question. This will be an important priority for us to follow up. I think it's true that it's the Sametinget that's going to have this task -- I think they're almost there to find a good solution to this challenge. I have already had a dialogue meeting with the Sameting, most specifically linked to the challenges we have now seen in the period of coronary infection and many students receiving distance learning, and a strong concern for many of the students in the Sami area. But this is an area that I want to follow closely. I think the best thing is to solve it in a close dialogue with the Sameting to find the best solutions to this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2795	I experienced that when we left Finnmark, the committee was a little surprised that there was a lot of money that was not used. We're left with the need for more people who can contribute, and that the best thing is to be the enemy of good – then I'm thinking especially of learning materials. It's the way to have a writing textbook entirely adapted to the Sami environment, it's demanding and it's not people for it. But at the same time, it's probably that much can be translated from Norwegian textbooks, and that would be a much simpler problem. Is there something that the Council of State will look at in order to provide teaching material, because teaching material in its entirety was so often mentioned there as a major problem — learning material in Sami?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2802	Yes, I believe that both the National Audit Office's report and obviously the Committee's visit to Finnmark provide very good and useful information on how we should follow up this work further. I have been invited to visit myself, but due to the circumstances, it has not been possible to carry out such a visit. I think there's a need to make better use of the tools we use today, and I think we need a good dialogue with the whole thing to figure out how we can best solve it. We have a very good knowledge base here. I think the best thing is to follow up the consultation system we have with the Sameting, so that we can make good use of the arrangements we have in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2807	This committee visited the core areas, where Sami is widely used in school. But then we know that one of the main issues in the National Audit Office's report is about the rest of the country, where there may be quite a number of students who are entitled to Sami education, but who do not get it and are not informed about that right. As I mentioned in my article, it's easy to dwarve about practical ways to solve it, for example. when students are enrolled in school. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State if there is anything the government can do to the municipalities, so that you are able to offer that information about those rights in a better way than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2812	Firstly, the Riksrevision report provides a very good basis for addressing this issue with the municipalities. What we have now received is a very good proof that many people are not conscious of their rights. The best way the state can have such a dialogue is through KS, which is the municipal body up against the state. This is a theme that I think is most natural to discuss with KS.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2817	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2825	The National Audit Office's report on Sami training at school is important, and I am pleased with the unanimous recommendation of the Committee to recommend the Ministry of Knowledge to follow the five points of the National Audit Office. The Labour Party is clear that the Stortinget and the Sametinget together must ensure a good framework for the Sami languages, Sami culture, business and social life. Good language training is essential for this. Same people should have a real opportunity to learn Sami, use it in everyday life and deliver it to the next generation. It sets requirements for our decisions. The National Audit Office is quite clear that the responsibility of the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is not being properly followed up. It's the Sametinget that's responsible for the teaching materials. Nevertheless, the government is cutting its support through the ABE cuts. Repeated flat budget cuts can also framework the design of learning materials and go beyond the language training of Sami students in concrete terms. We live in an age of increasing urbanization. For the first time, my home town, Tromsø, is Norway's largest municipality in terms of the number of Sami inhabitants. At the same time, Oslo has both a Sami kindergarten and co-located Sami language training in one school. It's not like that in all municipalities, and the Riksrevision's remark about the difference in the flow of information of the parents is worth noting. So we're going to notice that the case-leader put emphasis on here today, that there's a precarious situation in recruiting sam teachers, and that more schools are struggling with this. In contrast to what the council said, there is actually a sharp decline in the search for teacher training, and then I think it's worth noting that you might have to consider, as Sametinget says, to relax a little on very strict qualification requirements. At the same time, distance learning needs to be further developed, and hopefully we have now, over the next two months, learned a lot about how to improve this offer. Finally, it is central that the municipalities as school owners are able to ensure good Sami training for their students. I hope that the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office and in particular support the school owners' efforts to ensure a good and equivalent offer. All Sami students are entitled to Sami language training, and this right must be mandatory and real.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2844	I really didn't mean to say so much in this case, but I think maybe it's important that someone who comes from the area, says a little. I come from South Island, which is a quite large island, perhaps Norway's largest without mainland connections. We're not so many people, but we have a lot of Sami descent among us who live there. What's a little bit of the problem is when we've been inducted with some attitudes that make it hard to admit that you might have a Sami background. Then you have to get your parents to apply – we want to learn a language. I'm also a teacher, and I've heard many people say that it's hard to get parents to apply for Sami as a language. But if you apply, you'll also be met with: No, we don't have any teachers for you. This applies to those who live outside the Sámi core municipalities. In the municipality of Hasvik, which is a little on the outside, we have to struggle to get samish teachers. And then you have to figure out what you can do to get recruited. Is it possible to do as we did before, with tools or something like that, which is an extra carrot to get people to take that education -- and would like to look at this with mathematics, which also comes up as a theme. I think the most important thing is that these kids get Sami as a language, and that they also get to learn about culture and maybe sew the theme that suits the area they come from. Identity and culture are so incredibly important, and the responsibility for this is that we have, that we sit in this room, and then we have to make sure that we put in place the opportunities we have to do this. The merger is important, clearly, and cooperation with them is necessary, but also with the municipalities that are around, because not all municipalities have representatives in the Sameting. They must also do this. Just to take an example of this: Salaby, as most teachers know. There it's very hard to find things that are in Sami. It should be easy to translate this. So there has to be a raising of awareness about this – at everyone around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2859	Since both the last speakers and others have been concerned about the need to strengthen the recruitment of teachers, I thought I would say a little more about it. With regard to just recruiting for teacher training, there is no doubt that it is high on the government’s agenda, and over the last three years, the three institutions with Sami teacher training received a total of 15 million. kr for the recruitment and qualification of teachers. There is also a lot of exciting professional development work going on in this area, and I would like to highlight in particular the efforts in lulesamic and southern Sami at North University, as it is where the needs are now the greatest. Primary school teacher training in lulesamic and southern Sami started in 2018 and 2019 respectively, and workplace-based kindergarten teacher training from 2020 is envisaged. And since there are major challenges in recruiting teachers in North Norway and teaching in and in Sami, the government has set up incentives through various arrangements for the cancellation of student loans in the Loan Fund. Students taking Sami part in or as an addition to teacher training may cancel between NOK 50000 and DKK 210 000 of their study loan, and the best arrangements will then apply to primary school teacher training, where the need is also greatest. I still don't think these incentives solve the challenge, because it's a pretty big challenge, but there's at least some important steps on the way, and I hope that over time they'll be effective, so that we can ensure good competence in Sami all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2870	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2887	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to case-speakers, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2894	I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee and not least thanking the National Audit Office for a thorough control of the ownership of state companies. Through this case we investigate whether the State manages its interests in the companies as the Stortinget has determined. It is the democratic control of companies owned or jointly owned by the citizens – this year there are 118 companies, representing heavy values measured in crowns and ears, but not least fulfilling important societal critical tasks within e.g. life and health. In the ownership of these companies, there is a lot of policy, there is a lot of authority, and therefore the control of the Storting is important. For the financial year 2018, the Riksaudition carried out its annual control and three administrative audits. There was no basis for comments from the annual audit but there were comments from the administrative audits of the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Industry. Everyone is well aware of the importance of the job employed in healthcare. By 2030 we will need 30 pst. several years' work in the specialist health service. Nevertheless, the National Audit Office finds that health businesses face major challenges in recruiting, mobilising and maintaining nurses, midwives and specialised nurses, and that the manning challenges affect how employees themselves experience the quality of patient treatment. The National Audit Office points to reasons such as the fact that many nurses work part-time, that sick leave is high, and that many leave the job after relatively few years. Health enterprises lack good systems to create a full-time culture, and the National Audit Office finds that it is still possible to mobilise more labour among employees, as they say. It's about 25 pst. of the part-time employees in the sample indicate that they want to increase their employment rate, and among those who do not want to increase their employment rate, they report above 70 pst. high labour pressure is an important reason why they work part-time. There are considerable differences between the clinical units in the proportion of employees who respond that there were enough personnel in the last watch to provide patients with a good offer. Large work pressure due to low manning can in turn lead to fewer full-time jobs – here we have an evil circle. Therefore, the Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that there is a potential for improvement in both recruiting new employees and mobilising and retaining the employees through full-time culture or systems to evaluate the manning situation, in order to mention something. The national audit has also carried out an administrative audit on the reason for the variation in the consumption of healthcare. Variations in the consumption of healthcare are negative and undesirable if the variation cannot be explained by differences in, for example: morbidity or patient preferences. So the Committee emphasises that undesirable differences in treatment due, for example, to: age, sex, place of residence, economy or ethnic background are not acceptable. It may involve under-treatment, over-treatment or mistreatment. However, the national audit finds an undesirable variation in a number of aspects of the specialist healthcare service between the areas of inclusion of health enterprises. In many cases, the differences between the different exposure ranges are very large. This means that the provision of treatment by residents depends on where they live, and this may mean that resources are not used in the best possible way. The National Audit Office points to a systematic disparity of assessment in the different parts of the service and asks the Ministry to consider several national guidelines. The Committee takes note of this, but we also point out that action against undesirable variation does not have to mean harmonisation – and that is important. Furthermore, the Committee notes that only health south-east of regional health establishments has specified the number of treatments and the actively regulated volume of their contracts with private commercial hospitals. There is also a particular risk of over-treatment here, and the Committee therefore considers it important that health businesses ensure regulation right there. Finally, I would just like to repeat that the Committee is joining the recommendations of the National Audit Office for all three administrative audits – including the last one, which I was not going to talk about in this article.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2919	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for the job and stress what he said, that when we get reports like this, the main impression, which we are talking little about, is that very much of the management is good. It concerns the government and the state companies. I think a contribution to that is precisely the National Audit Office's reports, which have the searchlight they have in different state establishments. I would like to stress what the Council of State said, in particular on health, that we in Norway believe that there is a similar health provision across the country, but that there may be quite a difference in the treatment of similar diseases in different places. It is important that the Council of State takes part in the further work. I think it was mentioned last year as well. Speaking of last year, this time we got a report that might be a little different from the one we dealt with last year. One of the main issues last year was management pay, and because of the discussion that has been on the same team after we had the discussion here last year – I had, among other things. a discussion with both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Industry at the time – I hope that the Council of State can now say something about its follow-up. In fact, there is also a thread in the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee, and there is no doubt that the issue of the development of executive salaries has not become less topical in the last year than it was when we had the Riksaudition report for consideration a year ago. Although it is not a central part of this year's report, I hope it is referred to by the Council of State on the follow-up to what we had last year. I remember that one of the issues we discussed last year with the then State Council and the Minister for Health was: What really is an unreasonable wage trend in leadership? My definition of it is: if it is greater than average wage developments in society, there is reason to take care of wage developments in management, whether they be among employees or among directors. I hope that also that question is addressed by the Council of State this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2936	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work first. I can stick to what he said. It is, for the most part, a collective committee in this matter. I want to address the challenges of staffing in health services. Clearly, there are major challenges in recruiting, mobilizing and keeping nurses, midwives and special caregivers. It's the first line to take care of the people, and now it's among the heroes that we trust to get through the coronary crisis. In the Center Party, we've been busy with the crew in hospitals for a long time. Now everyone can see that these are societally critical functions. The report considers that there is a shortage of specialists. Printouts indicate a need of less than 30 pst. several annual works in the specialist services until 2030 and 40 pst. more towards 2040. It was before the coronary crisis. I would like to point out that, in order to meet the challenges of staffing in healthcare professionals, more health workers need to be developed, and we need to keep them. This report clearly shows that the health care providers provided the health care providers with full job vacancies and a good professional environment, had several living quarters in the profession. It is the task of healthcare professionals to have plans and governance that ensure the necessary basic staffing of all units and to facilitate more full-time settings. When a joint committee is behind the advice of the National Audit Office, it is clear that a new management of healthcare professionals must be in place when Norway finds its way out of the coronary crisis. We now know what is critical to keep society going — the staff of health professionals is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2949	The National Audit Office refers to three specific investigations in my area. The National Audit Office refers to the previous Posten surveys, where ownership is now managed by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, and the follow-up of social responsibility. Both have followed up in a good way. The National Audit Office has also carried out a State Power Survey. I think it is positive that the National Audit Office addresses relevant issues related to the company. At the same time, the study includes complex aspects to be considered. State power is in an industry characterised by fundamental changes few have foreseen. It is therefore important to compare the results with other companies facing the same changes. Such comparisons show that Statkraft has performed well. As in other companies, profitability varies between segments and projects. Therefore, the development of sub-portfolios does not provide a comprehensive picture of the activities. As the National Audit Office also refers to, the total profitability of the State has been good. In particular, in the light of what I have just mentioned, it is my view and the ministry that the Riksrevision's assessments could have been somewhat more nuanced in this area. State power has had challenges and also has areas of improvement. The company's returns and profitability are issues we must continue to follow up, and as part of that, I have also noticed the comments made by the committee, and the recommendations made by the Riksrevision. As with other companies, the ownership follow-up in Statkraft must also take place within the framework of our ownership policy, which means, for example, that: that the Stortinge will receive information on State power in an entirely ordinary way when relevant to the proposals promoted by the Government. Let me end with an important theme that the Riksrevision addresses, the financial framework for State Power. The history here has shown us that it is difficult to create a predictable framework for this company, and if we are to succeed in further developing the values of what is Europe's largest renewable energy producer, it is important that we set a framework that is in line with state ownership policy and the state's objectives of ownership. Here we have enough common responsibility, both the Storing and the Government, to contribute to it. I wish I had pulled into it, but I would like to make a new post to talk about executives' wages in state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2970	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2975	I want to mention something I didn't get in my first post. Investments in gas power and hydropower outside the Nordic region have not had a satisfactory return, and State power has not been good enough to comply with agreed cost estimates for international hydroelectric power projects, the Riksrevision finds. It's complicated math, so I'll ask a little open question. The majority has stated that the company, i.e. Statekraft: ‘shall contribute to a profitable management of Norwegian natural resources and the best possible return on Norwegian power resources to the community and the company’s resource allocation contributes to a socially sound and safe use of energy.’ This is what the Stortinge position in a previous case sounds like. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Statkraft has control over costs and to ensure that hydropower resources benefit the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2985	I couldn't say better myself. I think the Storting sums up in a very good way the joy and benefit that we have of Statkraft, and what they contribute. It's an important company in many ways. It's because it's an important player in the renewable market, but also because it's a company that contributes a lot of money to the community and to the projects we agree to use them on. We also have to follow up State power in the ordinary way. We're doing that today with all the companies we have. We have a follow-up of the owner. We note what the Riksrevision has pointed out, and also what the Storting points out. It is true that the representative is aware that there have been some projects abroad that could have gone better. It is a complex situation that is also about the market and changes in the market, but we – and we do – have to follow up the company in an ordinary way through the ownership we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2990	Thank you to the Council of State for a good answer to that. I tend to dwell on just one part of this complex — if not satisfactory profitability of foreign investment. One of the examples being drawn is investment in gas power abroad. There are several reasons why it has been less profitable than you thought, but one of them is very interesting to us, and that is that there has been an increased demand for renewable energy. In particular, the sun has come up as an alternative. How does the Council of State think that these positive changes in the world will affect the follow-up to State ownership in State power?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e2996	It's not many weeks since we had a debate in this room about the state's ownership policy, when we dealt with the ownership announcement. Then we discussed it a bit overall – how we follow up, and what is our goal with the different companies in which we have ownership. Basically, it is very positive that there will be demand for renewable energy. It is also part of the explanation that the market has changed in relation to the assumptions it had. For example, the sun has become a little cheaper, and so demand and the market have changed. We put the policy that we put forward in the ownership message, and that the Stortinge treated recently, underpinning our follow-up to the companies. It also includes Statkraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3001	The council said she's coming back to the theme I talked about in the introduction, so I'm waiting for it. I am pleased that the Council of State says that you should follow good ownership management. I can tell the Council of State that one of the first things this committee of control and constitution did when we took over the responsibility was just having a neat review of the difference between private companies, stock exchange companies where the state is one of the owners, and whole-time companies. Here we're talking about a whole-time company. Therefore, in view of the Riksrevision's recommendation, I wonder whether the Council of State will consider whether more comprehensive information can be provided to the Stortinget on State Power's foreign investment and other strategic areas of activity. Is there one of the recommendations of the National Audit Office that the Council of State might consider following up in order to better follow the developments mentioned in this report?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3008	My starting point is that I will treat Statkraft as a company like other companies and give Stortinget the information that is relevant and necessary when the government brings matters forward, or when the Stortinget asks for information about matters. We note both the comments and recommendations made by the Riksrevision in its report, and also what the Stortinget puts in its position. My starting point is that we should follow this company in an ordinary way and in line with the ownership policy that was discussed and dealt with here in the Stortingen a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3013	I also believe, as I said at the outset, that the company should be followed up in an ordinary way. But it's a whole time and, of course, as the Council of State knows, a very important company in Norway, and so the Riksaudition has asked for an assessment of whether more comprehensive information can be provided to the UK about foreign investment and other strategic areas. That's what I want answers to, if the Council of State is going to follow that recommendation from the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3018	As I said in my post, my starting point is that I will provide the information that the Storting needs and wants in the matters that the government is presenting, and in the matters that the Storting is asking for itself. But my starting point is that we're going to follow this company up in the ordinary way, like other companies where we're both heliant and partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3023	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3028	The National Audit Office has highlighted several important issues for the specialist healthcare service. The National Audit Office considers it serious that health businesses face major manning challenges and critical that they lack an overview of manning needs and plans to address these challenges. I have requested a joint enterprise meeting with the regional health companies to follow up this report. Last November, I presented the National Health and Hospital Plan, where competence and personnel are one of the main areas. Health enterprises have been given the task of creating a plan that ensures adequate competence and facilitates lifelong learning and a full-time culture. Health regions’ crew data show that the labour reserve, to which the National Audit Office refers, has been mainly removed. In addition, sick leave is lower than in many other sectors. I agree with the Riksrevision's recommendation to create good professional environments and to facilitate the closest leader's obtaining the necessary conditions and opportunities to lead and implement the necessary improvement actions. I have shown in the business meeting that it is a management responsibility to ensure that the work is focused on developing a full-time culture and on training, recruiting, retaining and developing employees. The management and the board are responsible for ensuring the functioning of the management system and for the necessary improvements. Health enterprises must provide the necessary space for action and tools for evaluating operations. The national audit has carried out a thorough and relevant study on the undesirable variation in consumption of specialist health services. The type of variation results either in patients being exposed to unnecessary risks or not receiving services they need. It is contrary to the principle of equivalent health care. The type of variation also means that the resources available to hospitals can be better used. Some variation is also desirable and may have many reasons. For example, it may be a prerequisite for gaining new knowledge. Health businesses have been working in the last year to assess the phasing-out of low-power treatments or for which there are better alternatives. This work continues. These issues are updated by the Corona situation. Many treatments have been exposed for protection and preparedness reasons. Hospitals shall return to more normal operation. In this respect, it is particularly important that patients receive treatment that is effective and does not result in a risk of unnecessary harm. I support the recommendations of the National Audit Office, and I see that the National Audit Office finds that it is working to reduce undesired variation, but that the scope is too small, and that is too little systematic. In 2020, I have asked health regions to follow up the study with expectations of a more systematic approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3043	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3048	The National Audit Office points out that part-time and low crewing are like an evil circle in this matter. Low staffing means that employees both end earlier and work in smaller jobs, which in turn poses challenges of getting good enough staff. There have been expectations of working for a full-time culture from the Ministry of Health and Welfare and out in the services for a while now. Although the full-time share has increased somewhat — which is gratifying — the Riksrevision states that it is still possible to mobilise more labour among employees and that health care businesses lack a good system to create a full-time culture. That's why I want to ask the Council of State, what will the Council of State do about it? What else can be done when the Riksrevision comes up with that point?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3057	This is an important topic that I have also asked the health regions to work a lot on, and the updates we have now received from health regions show that the labour reserve to which the Riksrevision refers has mainly been removed. The regional health enterprises' own crew data show that the average employment rate for permanent employees in all regions is now above 90 pst. Conditions such as the right of employees to work in a reduced position, leave for different reasons and the personal wishes of employees, e.g. working part-time is a matter for health enterprises which the employer must also take into account when drawing up crew plans. So it has consequences. But the fact that the average job rate is now 90 pst. shows that a good job has been done here lately to help us go in the direction that I have called for, namely to create a full-time culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3062	It's interesting to read the correspondence, to call it that, between the Council of State and the Riksrevision at this very point. The National Auditor acknowledges that 90 pst. is the average of the job fraction, but nevertheless they indicate that, for example: among midwives is another image. In some hospitals and in some enterprises the situation is much worse than that and they point to the fact that there is still a high potential for improvement. As I mentioned in my reply, this is related to manning. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: does he agree that in the case of nurses and midwives in particular, more needs to be done? How does he follow it up, for example? towards educational institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3071	It's true that we have challenges related to the need for more of what one calls ABIOK nurses, i.e. nurses who are specialists, such as midwives, health nurses, and, not least, advanced general clinical nurses in specialist health care. It is also one of the reasons why the government in spring 2019 presented a plan that will give 80 new ABIOK nurses a year. This is something we're doing a lot of work to increase further. The current situation also shows the importance of access not least to this type of specialist nurse in hospitals. Here, we need to ensure that there is sufficient training capacity, and then health regions need to ensure that there is sufficient practical capacity to increase recruitment in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3078	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3085	I promised you that I would post an article on management wages in state-owned companies, so I guess I'll do as I've said. I was not present last year during the debate it is referred to, so I am not familiar with the topic of discussion there, but the theme of leadership wages was also up when we dealt with the ownership message a few weeks ago. It is important for me to make it clear that the boards of the companies are responsible for setting wages. They are also responsible for any other arrangements that managers may have. The state is committed to acting as a long-term and professional owner, and we are clear that there should be transparency around the considerations underlying the remuneration of leaders. We have said that wages should be competitive, but not pay-paying. There is something that we follow up in the ownership dialogue with the different companies, and that is also something we look at when dealing with the board's statement of directors' remuneration, which is dealt with in the general meeting. I feel that this is a regular topic, both politically and in the companies in which we own. My experience is that we have companies that are competitive on pay, but not pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3098	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3110	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3124	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Jon Engen-Helgheim on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No 3, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the law in such a way as to give free judicial advice in cases of expulsion due to penalties imposed under the penal code or the Road Traffic Act, in the same way as in the case of expulsion due to infringements of the Foreign Affairs Act’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3150	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to prepare and come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals to use violations of local police regulations as a basis for expulsion proceedings’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Foreign Affairs Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 122, second paragraph, point (b) is replaced by the following: (b) is an EEA citizen who has been resident for the last fifteen years in the Kingdom, unless this is imperative for reasons of public security; or’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3378	It is quoted above in Section 122, second paragraph, point (b). The Progress Party has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3394	The rest of I and II are voted on. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3408	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3422	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3434	During the debate, Karin Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work on completing today’s au pair scheme and to set up a new system to ensure the purpose of cultural exchange and to ensure that participants are not exploited’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3591	It is quoted above in § 87, § 110, second paragraph, § 110, third paragraph, (c) and (d), § 114, fourth paragraph, (c) and § 120, sixth paragraph. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3605	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3615	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3625	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3637	During the debate, Mr Seestad presented two proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Central Party. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3653	Right, Socialist Left, Left, Christian People's Party, Green and Red have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3665	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: 'The Government asks the Government to ensure that amendments to the Regulation of 15 May 1988 No. 356 for the use of motor vehicles in off-road and on ice watercourses shall apply from 1 October 2020.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the regulatory changes lead to regulatory simplifications and increased municipal autonomy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3694	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 2, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment There is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting a phased ban on lead-containing ammunition in Norway and initiating an investigation into the timing of such a ban.’; Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3720	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for solutions for the collection of lead during shooting on shooting tracks and for the investigation of possible instructions for the use of this equipment when shooting on the ground, and to return to Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3744	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3763	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 2 and 3, from Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4–6, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a public body to: – propose the most appropriate way to analyse and produce natural risk at national level. – identify and propose measures such as changes in framework conditions, regulations and changes in tax policies, which ensure that private and public enterprises, including financial institutions, are provided with a basis for optimal analysis and mitigation of natural risk.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a big message containing a plan for large-scale restoration of wild nature, intact ecosystems and greater experience in Norwegian nature in line with Norway’s Aichi commitment to restore 15% of our degraded ecosystems.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to require all Norwegian municipalities to introduce their own natural budgets, with national natural loss limits and restoration objectives, which are intensified annually.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3811	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public sample to assess how a most appropriate can analyse and produce natural risk at national level.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a public body to assess the methodology, if any, for private and public enterprises, including financial institutions, to have a professional basis for analysing and managing natural risk in the best possible way.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3844	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to identify key global, nature-related risk factors and assess their impact on the Norwegian economy and financial stability.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3868	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop all planned test drilling in sea areas scheduled to be included as particularly valuable areas in the forthcoming comprehensive National Marine Protection Plan, in the revision of the Barents Sea Management Plan and beyond the Lofoten, as well as in the updating of the Norwegian Sea and North Sea-Skagerrak management plans.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to include the updated particularly valuable and vulnerable areas in the Barents Sea and Maritime Management Plans and the Norwegian and North Sea Skagerrak management plans in line with the recommendations of the Technical Basis ‘Specially valuable and vulnerable areas M-1303’, and to protect these areas from oil activity in the forthcoming national marine protection plan.’ [[SVO]] Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3908	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to clarify to licensees that it would not be appropriate to allow the development of oil and gas fields in the area around the Trainer Vet or other sea areas planned to be a particularly valuable area in the forthcoming comprehensive National Marine Protection Plan, in the revision of the Barents Sea Management Plan and beyond the Lofoten, or in the updating of the Norwegian Sea and North Sea Shagerrak management plans. ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the protection of the marine area around the Trainer Vet from petroleum activity in the forthcoming national marine protection plan.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e3939	In the course of the debate, Sandra Borch put forward two proposals on behalf of the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a new counting method for bear ewes showing the real level of the stock.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a survey of the real level of bear population through a census.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e4069	This proposal is proposed in accordance with point (e) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure — not to be considered. The representative of the Bears Moxnes has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e4076	The alternative to dealing with Red's proposals and possibly instructing the government in this matter will be to circle around an unculture, which would surprise, especially after opinions from the Centre Party and the Advance Party. I propose, pursuant to point (b) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure, that the proposal be sent to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, because this concerns the verification of the compliance of government with applicable laws, regulations and ethical guidelines for public managers and officials, such as the State Staff Manual and travel regulations. Previous proposals for the Riksrevision to review the complexities of the case, which have been adopted in the Stortinget, have first been examined in the Control and Constitutional Committee. The majority has the right to initiate this, according to the Act on the Riksrevision § 9: «The majority may require the Riksrevision to initiate specific investigations.» This has occurred in a few cases, but there is no argument for cutting off proposals without a substantive review. We believe it is necessary to turn all the stones in order to ensure confidence in important public institutions. I am asking for a separate vote on the further processing of item No. 3 in the proposal for a representative because the Presidency’s formal argument is not valid for the point of the Riksrevision. I hope it can be taken separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e4085	Is there anyone else who wants the word to this matter? - It's not. The President then proposes that the Stortinget vote on the procedure for Document 8:91 S for 2019-2020. It is voted over points 1, 2 and 3 as a whole, since no one has asked for the word and given support for having a separate vote. The President will maintain the unanimous proposal of the Presidency that the proposal for a representative be dealt with in accordance with point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure – is not discussed. The proposer, Björn Moxnes from Red, wishes the proposal to be dealt with in accordance with point (b) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure and to be sent to the Control and Constitutional Committee. An alternative is to vote between the President's proposal and the Red proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e4105	Further references were made: 3rd@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by depositors Nicholas Wilkinson, Karin Andersen, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and Arne Nävra on the removal of input-driven funding in the specialist health service under the coronary apathy (Document 8:94 S [[300]] [[2019-2020]] 4th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Tuva Moflag, Ingvild Kjerkol, Tellef Inge Mørland, Tore Hagebakken, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Nina Sandberg and Øystein Langholm Hansen on digitisation lift to prevent exclusion (Document 8:97 S [[301]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : No. 3 and 4 are sent to the Health and Care Committee. 5th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the staging representatives Karin Andersen, Mona Fagerås, Lars Haltbrecken and Freddy André Øvstegård to ensure that the best interests of the child in expulsion cases are taken into account (Document 8:93 S [[302]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : To be sent to the Municipal and Management Committee. 6th@item: inlistbox Representative of the Landfill Representatives, Geir Pollestad and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, on the establishment of food grain preparedness (Document 8:92 S [[303]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : To be sent to the Business Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-05.ana.ud136e4127	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
