ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e28	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e33	On behalf of the major representatives of Lars Haltbrecken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for greater use of two- and three-field roads instead of four-field motorways.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e38	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e54	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Monica Mæland, Linda Hofstad Helleland and Dag-Inge Ulstein will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e63	My question goes to the district minister. This year we got a rebellion against the ferry tariffs. We got stories about an increase of 40 p.m., and about families who got an increase in their expenses of tens of thousands of dollars. The reason has emerged: there is a shift in the income of county municipalities, there is a greater demand for environmentally friendly ferries, and there has been a large increase in the cost of holiday offers. Governments, like many others, have expressed their concern about the consequences for people living along the coast and who depend on ferries in everyday life. I share that concern, and briefly we can say that ferries are at least as important to many families as the T-Bahn is to tens of thousands of people living in Oslo. Now the Council of State has been sailing with the ferries in the West and has eaten food, she has had a month to think well about, and on Monday she also met representatives of the ferries to discuss and hear what challenges they see. My question to the Council of State will be: Will the Council of State ensure that it is possible for the states to set down the ferry tariffs, and when can the tariffs be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e76	The government is concerned that people should have good opportunities to live and work in all parts of the country. Then it must also be possible to commute to work within the wallet without going too far beyond the family economy. Just after I was appointed district minister, the Minister of Transport and I made a trip to More and Romesdal, where we met the commuters, we met the families of children, we met the business community, and not least we also met the county politicians who are responsible for the county holidays. We take seriously the turmoil and concern that people across the coast experience. That's also why four state councils from the government on Monday met all political leaders in all of our ferry companies, just to try to figure out some of the reasons for this cost increase. It's amazing what the counties have been doing. They want to be offensive and contribute to the green shift, the government wants to be offensive in getting a greener ferry, and together we're going to work on what we can do for the commuters. At the meeting with the state politicians, we did not make any promises or solutions, because there is no easy solution to this. Enova, Innovation Norway and the Norwegian authorities have contributed in large measure to assist the counties in the transition from the old ferries to a greener ferry fleet. We now have a good dialogue, and we've started working together to help the commuters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e89	I am pleased that the Council of State acknowledges the problem and – as she says – takes it seriously, and sees the drama there are too many when they now feel that they cannot commute to work within a sound cost framework. I am also pleased that the Council of State has spent time getting into the problem, but then she must also acknowledge that part of the problem here is the framework conditions that the majority in this Chamber and the current government give to the states. I am sure the Council of State agrees with me that it is not possible to do as the representative Njåstad argued at a hearing last week in the Stortingen on this issue, that unforeseeable profits in county municipalities due to unforeseen tax receipts and lower pension contributions can be used to plan for sustainable operation. So the question remains: you recognize that it's a serious problem, you're seriously worried, but you can't say anything about what solutions you want to give, and you can't indicate when you get a clarification. The council gave no promises on Monday, but perhaps you can make a promise to the people now: Can you get a clarification this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e96	As I said to the representative Sivertsen, we have now joined with the political leadership of the different states in order first to get the right data base and a starting point for what the real costs are. It varies from state to state. It is not that there is a simple answer and a simple solution to the problem. What we agree on together is that the transition to a greener ferry fleet, the fact that we provide a good offer for new ferries, must not help people lose the motivation to join in and support a green shift. Therefore, we will look at how to live in the district and commute fairly and easily to work, and how to make sure that we succeed together with more environmentally friendly ferries. I have no answer today because we are now working together on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e101	There will be follow-up questions – first Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e106	I'm glad the Council of State will look at it, but people are interested in knowing when a change happens. Let me then, since we are not getting any clarification on that either here today, be allowed to focus on another problem that has also been very concerned by the Council of State, and which again affects people in the districts, along the coasts of both the north and the west and other parts of the country. On 4 May, on the other hand, 4 000 annual departures. There's the bus and the collective offer for a lot of people in this country. Nordland is a long-distance state. There the only regional and rapid communications between two of the state's largest cities are now lost. In response to the representative, Lauvås, the Council of State has announced that she will follow the matter closely, but that it was too early to say anything about what steps to take now. I have two suggestions for action that the Council of State should be able to assess: there is an increase in FOT routes in general – one has cut hundreds of millions here a few years ago for new tenders, then it will be lower quality – or the establishment of a FOT Evenes-Bodø route. When will the Council of State clarify what air services are to be provided in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e113	The government is concerned that people in the districts should have good means of making good progress, and that it should be reasonable. For the coastal population it is a good ferry service, and not least in the West and North Norway it is particularly about the operation of the short-haul network. I was very sorry when I saw what Onderøe did – I think it is a very bad thing. I also feel that people in Northern Norway are very disappointed by Onionsøe, not least local politicians from the Workers' Party. The situation we're in now is difficult. The Minister for Transport, like in the ferry business, also follows the Unterøe case very closely. I'm worried about the monopoly situation we have. I believe absolute competition had benefited air passengers through a better offer and also lower costs. I cannot say anything other than that now the Minister of Transport and the government follow this case closely, and I hope that the end of the case will also be that more passengers in the north get a better offer than they have today, but then we depend on more competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e122	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e127	No, people are not disappointed with Unheed, people are disappointed with the government. What Backøe does now, are two things. One is that the offer they make on the FOT route network is of poorer quality than it was before, and that's because this government cut 100 million. NOK when one had it on offer last. The second is that cut in commercial routes comes due to the general framework conditions that Onøe has notified has been a threat to their operations over several years, but that the government has not taken seriously before coming with careful cut, at some tens of millions, this year. What is the situation now is that the government appears to be the complete paralysis of action. So, the path between Evenes and Bodø disappears on May 4th, and then you cut the link between the two largest cities in Northernland. The question is whether the government understands that something needs to be done – to ensure that this route is a collective offer by subsidising it by purchasing services, FOT routes, as one does with other public transport, and that one can be sure that one can travel between Narvik and Bodø even after May 4th this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e135	I can assure the representative Sivertsen that the government fully understands the situation that many in the north experience. I'm going to Northland on Monday, to the representative's family. There I'm going to Brønnøysund, where I'm going to meet the owners of Torghatten, who are also very much inside of Onyøe, and I look forward to hearing what they think about how to further ensure a better offer for passengers in North Norway. As district minister, I am also very concerned about the Evenes–Bodø section, because this is a very important nerve for people in the north for transport around North Norway. That is why I am concerned that we should find a solution, but – equally important – the solution lies in increased competition, low prices and better offers. The situation we now have, with a monopoly situation, benefits no one.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e140	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e145	I record that the councils are concerned, and that they've been on an extensive tour along the coast, in districts that the government often boasts of going well. Nevertheless, it is not possible to address the obvious challenge of people's everyday lives when holiday prices are rising. But it's not just ferries and transportation of people and cars that are crucial to the coast. At least equally important for coastal value creation are the many ships carrying goods, bulk, fish and fish feed, and other service vessels. The decisive framework conditions under which the establishment operates include, inter alia,: reimbursement of the basic tax on mineral oil, the net pay system for seafarers and the special deduction for the same. Now we see that several of these are weakening – mechanisms that are central to maintaining Norwegian competitiveness against international actors in the maritime sector. The total loss of framework conditions will result in the loss of thousands of Norwegian jobs along the coast, loss of competence, impaired coastal value creation and a weakened Norwegian ship register. What will the Council of State do with the situation of coastal shipping companies to ensure jobs and a transition to a greener coastal fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e152	I have to say first that I'm very happy that we have such a green coastal fleet, and that we might go ahead in the world by innovating and making sure we get a greener maritime sector. Then I have to say that if there's some place that's going well, it's along the coast of Norway. We have a business, not least the seafood industry, which contributes to the creation of growth, development and jobs. Only last year, 40 000 jobs were created in the private sector, many of which lie in our coastal communities. There are many jobs that are empty. What companies tell me when I'm around and visiting them is that we need people at work, we need skills, we need engineers, we need skilled workers. It is also good to see that government policies deliver results: historical commitment to transport, low tax and tax levels, and not least commitment to competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e159	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e164	I have followed the round of questions carefully, and there are probably more here to ask: What can Stortinget really ask the Minister of the District? So the District Minister has no responsibility for the current uprising when it comes to ferries, there is no role there, then one points to other government councils – the same with the FOT routes, the short-distance networks and the questions there. I expect that we will get the same answers when it comes to the major district uprisings about health, local economy, well-being, etc. Is it such that today we are invited to discuss only the very areas for which this Council of State is responsible, which are then the regional means of development, which is a very important system for the districts, but which are halved under this government? Is that how to understand that this is the only thing we can ask the Council of States that we can get proper answers to?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e171	I invite Knag County to ask questions about my digitalization portfolio, which is very important for the districts, which can create growth and development and ensure that people can sit and work off the coast or up in the countryside and do not have to sit in the city. I invite you to ask questions about the entire regional and regional portfolio, which is important not least because the instrument can help to facilitate jobs, and which is perhaps also a lot of the reason why 50 000 jobs were created last year, including public jobs, around the country. It's like every government has coordinating ministers, whether it's an equality minister, whether it's a business minister, or whether it's a coordination minister, as the government that SV put in, had, with Schjøtt-Pedersen, which I think actually had a portfolio of the government's car service. So any government behaves the way you want it to. We want a stronger commitment and follow-up to district issues, so the Prime Minister has chosen to put together the government in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e178	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e183	I am pleased that a coordinating state council also has a role to play in terms of districts in general, and that means that we can ask proper questions about districts in general. Just to get to what the previous questioner asked here, it was the coast, freight, etc.The government has cut quite sharply when it comes to fishing ports and port subsidies in general, so that the growth we see along the coast is a growth that happens in spite of the government's unaccompaniedness, not because of it. The same developments are seen in general centralisation in municipalities, where public centralisation is far greater than private, i.e. public workplaces, state workplaces, are centralised at a higher rate than private service providers are. It shows the numbers from the SSB that have recently come out. So the question should perhaps be left a little open: what role will the district minister take in turning the developments from a strong centralisation to a ruralization?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e192	First of all, we now see that, for example: in North Norway, from which the representative Knag County is from, it's going very well. Unemployment is lower in Northern Norway than in the country as a whole. Economic growth is above the national average. It's an optimism when you travel north – I'm going to be in Finnmark for two days next week. I am delighted that there is still a need to invest; there must still be a low level of taxation; one must continue to ensure that one of the most important tools we have in our rural policy, namely a differentiated employer's fee, is well-managed. I am delighted to support the optimism that is out in the districts. I don't want to be part of that black paint and the downfall of what's going on in the districts. Nor is it the case that the state should come there and solve everything. We see that only last year 40 000 jobs were created in the private sector. The most important thing for people in the districts is that they have a job to do to feed themselves and their families.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e199	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e205	My question goes to the Minister of Justice and Security. We now see dramatic pictures from Greece. We see a police in the fight against different groupings, we see the use of tear gas, we see people trying to climb over barbed wire fences. The truth is that we now have a much more explosive situation around a possible new migration crisis than we had in 2015, and we also see that there are considerably more migrants who have the potential to want to enter Europe. Experience in 2015 also showed that Norway was not well prepared, but that the measures quickly implemented had a significant impact. They had the effect for two reasons. One effect was that we quickly had restrictions that had consequences for those who came to Norway. The second effect, which was at least equally important, was the signal effect that Norway sent out to the world through the measures taken, which led to Norway not being considered the most attractive country to travel to. My first question to the Minister of Justice is whether she agrees that the implementation of rapid and rapid action can now have a new and reinforced signal effect with regard to new attempts at arrival in Norway. The second thing I would like to ask is that yesterday's Progress Party put forward a large number of proposals for tightening up, and many of them are proposals that the Right agreed to propose a few years ago. The question is, can the Right and the Government now promise to support these proposals? Or is it that the Right has come up with different thoughts after the Progress Party went out of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e216	I very much agree with the description given by the representative of the situation in Turkey and Greece. It's, to a very large extent, very inconspicuous. What we don't see is refugee flows up through Europe. We have to do everything in our power to prevent this, and right after the Question Time, I am going to fly to Brussels to discuss this issue with my colleagues in the European Union, because we have to have common European solutions here. So there's a big difference between the situation in 2015 and today. In 2015 we were completely unprepared. We didn't have a good enough code, and we didn't have a good enough reception system. I think we have now, I think we're very well prepared. For six and a half years — most of them, with the exception of the last four weeks, with the Progress Party in government — the government has made the necessary cuts. We are now exercising both external and internal border controls. We have put in place a regulation relating to people who come from safe third countries. We have put in place a Russia-instruction. There's only one question that hangs in itself, and there's a shelter connected to what we call secondary refugees. It's a provision that the then government parties agreed on at Granavolden – I don't know why it's not decided, but it's now in process, so we're going to put it in place. It is precisely about being very clear that the solution to the problem is not to come to Norway, the solution is not open Norwegian borders, the solution is common European solutions, and we can help most where they are now. Then I registered that the Progress Party made a number of suggestions yesterday. Of course, we're going to go through them. And that's the way politics isn't static, politics has to be moving, as the society we live in. Of course, if there is a basis for change, we should consider it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e229	This was not a very obligating answer. One can fear that the Christian People's Party and the Left may now have more influence over immigration policy in the future, and that is very disappointing in that case. But I note that the Minister of Justice is going to go to Brussels and meet European colleagues today, and that both the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister have talked about pan-European solutions. But what is it, what does it mean, and what does the Minister of Justice put into it? Does this mean that Norway wants to provide reinforced assistance to Greece to strengthen border control? In that case, it's good. Or does that mean that the government is about to conclude an agreement with other European countries on relocalisation? This means that the government is willing to assume an obligation to accept a significant amount of migrants because other European countries choose to do so. I want to know what the Minister of Justice has intended to promise his European colleagues when she now goes to Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e234	First, what is the right starting point of government is the Granavolden platform. That platform was at the back of four batches. It's not like two of the parties in the government are now governing our policy, that's what the Granavolden platform is doing, and it's a product that the Progress Party also helped negotiate a year ago. So that's our starting point for politics now. With regard to the agenda in Brussels, it is mainly about two things. One is the situation in Greece: how are we going to help Greece keep its outer border? And how are we going to help Greece deal with asylum applications? The last one has been a huge problem. In 2016, Norway helped to relocate refugees, but we relocated more than Greece itself has managed to return on the basis of its own asylum treatment. My State Secretary was last week in Greece to contribute both financially and with people and competences so that Greece can cope with a refugee situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e241	There will be follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e246	I have noticed that the government is running on the basis of the Granavolden platform, but you should also control on the basis of what is actually happening. When real world changes occur, it is not only necessary to refer to the Granavolden platform, it is also necessary to be willing to apply new measures if the need arises. I hear the Minister of Justice says that everything is now very well and that we are well prepared. But yesterday, UDI's director was out saying we're not prepared. So who's right? Is that the Minister of Justice, or is it the UDI Director? If it is the UDI Director, the government has to be willing to implement more measures than a possible change of so-called subsidiary protection – it is well and well stated that it is tightening up the action properly and far beyond what is laid down in the Granavolden platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e253	To repeat myself, politics is not static. If there is a basis for changing policy, of course we should. But I think we are prepared in a completely different way than we were in 2015 both in terms of the necessary tightening, and not least in terms of the experience we gained in 2015. Then the representative refers to what the UDI director has said, but there are two completely different questions. What I've answered is whether we're prepared to prevent people from coming to Norway. I think we're much more likely to be. Can we do more? Yeah, maybe that -- we have to get back to that. What UDI has responded to is whether we have reception capacity if people first cross the border. That capacity is built up, of course the representative knows very, very well. We don't have many thousands of reception places standing empty in case someone is going to come to Norway, but we have experience to turn around in a very short time, and we're now doing everything we can to make sure that's not going to be the situation. So we do not want migrants to Norway. The solution is not migrants to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e260	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e265	I hear that the Council of State first says we're well prepared, and then to be a little bit on the slip because we have to do more. I'm very happy about that. When it comes to going through these proposals, it should go quite quickly, because most of them are made in the Ministry of Justice and well worked out. I want to focus my attention a little on what the Prime Minister said, because there are no desperate refugees standing on the border between Turkey and Greece now. There are people who have been staying in Turkey for a long time, and who have not been persecuted. We are well prepared for the Russia instruction, as the Prime Minister said, but in 2015 we saw that there was a small proportion coming through Russia. Most of them came across other borders. If we now see that there is a secondary movement, the Prime Minister says that we may have to make sure that this happens, that we are moving towards Norway. Isn't it better to prepare now than to wait until you're in the middle of it, which we were a little bit of the challenge in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e274	I assure you that we will go through the proposals that the Progress Party promoted yesterday, and I believe the representative is quite right in saying that many of them were promoted by the Right and the Advance Party when we joined the Government. But it wasn't proposals that got the majority in Stortinget, and the question is, of course, whether the majority has changed. It's not sure. So the question is, are there proposals that make the situation we're in now? When, for example: I think this is a rather hypothetical case, because we have border control at both the internal and external borders, we have rules relating to safe third countries, and we have rules relating to Russia. The case of sending a lot of migrants in Turkey – because I fully agree with the description that these are migrants, these are not refugees from Idlib we are now looking at the border with Greece – I think is a quite hypothetical situation. In that case, it would trigger a reaction from all over Europe if you were to fly from Turkey with people who have no identity or visa.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e281	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e287	I want to say that it is anyway important to be prepared if it is to come. Unfortunately, in 2017, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the other parties – except the Right and the Advance Party – chose to vote down that we should continue to have instructional authority over the Foreign Study. I really hope that the Right now supports it, and that the parties that voted it down that time also agree to continue it. I wonder what requests have come from the European Union and what requests have come from Greece. From my time in the Ministry of Justice, I know that you would like to be asked to contribute. Have there been any requests to accept migrants — the type of relocalisation? If it comes, what will the government's answer to that be? One of the problems in 2015 was that you started to accept, and then so many people that it was possible to get to Europe and then move on, and then you were on. I want to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e296	There has been no request from Greece or the EU for relocalisation. Nor is it on the agenda for today's sitting. So the representative knows, and I expect that I will also experience it, that that agenda can change. I don't know. But, of course, we do not intend to give any answer over the table on any such request. We got such a request before Christmas. Then the government answered no. We have said that there should be a relocation, there must be a broad European basis for it. There must be commitments. Greece has so far had major problems with its asylum treatment. Therefore, last week we contributed EUR 350 million through EEA funds. kr, with staff and with the competence of our foreign authorities to help Greece process the applications for asylum seekers they now have in their country. In addition, we need to help Greece deal with its external border. These are the two questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e303	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e308	Just to be absolutely sure that I got it right: in a situation where you're asked to relocate, would you consider including some of these people on an allowance? In reality, that means picking up people, migrants, from the border with Greece, who have been in a safe situation in Turkey, rather than picking quota refugees from camps where poor people cannot afford to use human traffickers to get to Europe and who have not had the opportunity to participate in what is now happening. Will you really consider it, or can the Council of State reject it here and now, that there is something the government is not going to open up to?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e313	To be equally precise, it is not on the agenda of today's meeting. We have not received any enquiry. If we get an enquiry, we'll have to evaluate it. The last time we got it, we said no, because there was no basis for saying yes. Of course, I cannot speculate in the future. We see that things change very quickly. But our starting point now is that it's not a question we've been given and we're going to answer affirmatively.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e320	Masud Gharakhkani – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e325	As you know, the Labour Party is the only party in Norway that has gone through the whole asylum and refugee policy and has presented solutions that will re-prepared Norway for a migration crisis. The government is not prepared, says UDI. This is a serious issue. Therefore, there is a need to clarify some facts, so that we can have a debate based on facts. Listening to the Progress Party gives the impression that Norway, if we want to, can send an asylum seeker from Syria who has been in Turkey for several years and then manages to get back to Norway, back to Turkey without examining his asylum application. Does Norway have an agreement with Turkey that makes this possible today, and has this ever happened? Why hasn't the Progress Party in the government been able to put this in place in the last six years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e332	What the Progress Party has done in government, the representative must almost ask the Progress Party about. I am pleased that the government has put in place a necessary regulation, which has been tightened up and which gives clear signals that the solution is not coming to Norway. We need to find other solutions to the terrible situation we see in Syria, and as we see in Greece. It is primarily about urging the parties to show restraint, that a rapid and lasting peace solution is in place. It is about putting in place broad European solutions related to border control, linked to Greece’s ability to deal with its asylum situation. Then the representative Gharakhani asks me to speculate in a possible migration from Turkey to Norway. So we have a return agreement with Turkey, if that's what we're asking for. We have asylum seekers from Turkey who come today as refugees from the Turkish regime. They are given a stay in Norway if there are grounds for doing so. But we haven't seen the need for a Turkey instruction, if that's what the representative is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e341	Masud Gharakhani – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e346	We need a clear response from the Council of State to what is practicable today, i.e. a yes/no response. If a Syrian refugee arrives in Norway who has been in Turkey for several years, and Norway tries to send him to Turkey without examining the application, will Turkey accept him?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e351	It's a problem I haven't been through, so I can't answer that, but basically we have a return agreement with Turkey. We have a regulatory framework to send back people who come and seek asylum from safe third countries. The authorities will then have to decide whether Turkey is a safe third country. It is a concrete decision that is made there and then by our professional authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e357	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e362	In 2015, Anders Anundsen was the Minister of Justice, and in the beginning of that crisis, the government had little control. What was nice about Norwegian politics then was that we went together and had a wide deal where we helped each other. If there is a need for the type of rounds now, I just want to signal on behalf of the Center Party that we would like to set up with the government. For the kind of pingpong game we saw in 2015, no problems solved. There might have been some party politics points, but there were no solutions. Then we took the initiative to put ourselves together, work and find solutions, and the subdued level of conflict. That's what I hope, too, if it's necessary, for the government to make contact with the Storting, and that we sit down and find solutions. But hopefully the solutions we found in 2015 are robust and good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e367	Thank you for the invitation. I believe it is a strength in Norway that we stand together in difficult situations, and that we – at least to some extent – have cross-political agreement on difficult issues. So I thank you for the invitation. The government will of course consider it, given that a situation should arise. Now we are doing everything we can to prevent this from happening, both through our work in NATO and in the EU and with the changes we have made in our own legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e372	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e377	In yesterday's newspaper, Norwegian health workers who have volunteered at the border between Turkey and Greece, about refugees who are being protected by Greek police, about children drowning, and about people who risk their lives trying to cross the border. The two health workers tell of children who have lost parents, parents who have lost children, and boats that go down, where no one is saved. They've seen this with their own eyes on the border between Turkey and Greece. On the same day, Erna Solberg – from a safe and warm NRK studio – says that there are no desperate refugees on the border between Turkey and Greece now. I wonder what's going on for the government to realize that these people are in a desperate situation and need our help?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e384	There is no contradiction between observing cruel conditions and finding that the people who are on the border between Turkey and Greece, who were referred to by the Prime Minister, are not asylum seekers from Idlib, but people who have stayed for a long time in Turkey. That doesn't mean it's a good relationship. There are cruel conditions, but the solution is not to open Norwegian borders and say: come to us! The solution is not to invite criminal gangs to put people into a bottomless debt and put their lives in debt by inviting them to sea trips in the Mediterranean, which, for many, end up terribly. So there's no contradiction. But describing what people we're talking about is pretty important. These are migrants who are looking for a better life. That, of course, is quite understandable, but it is not what the asylum institution is supposed to embrace.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e389	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e394	Then we hear a government that is blind to reality. Turkey opened the border against Greece in a cynical game – we agree – to get more NATO support for the illegal invasion of Syria by Turkey. Greece is on the verge. In the Moria camp, where there is room for 3,000 people, there are now 20,000 refugees – and yesterday 10,000 refugees crossed the border from Turkey. They're in an extremely tough situation in Greece, and they don't have the capacity to help those who get there. I wonder if Norway in such a situation, where Greece needs support from other European countries to deal with the influx, and not least to help more people, will consider relieving an overburdened Greece of extracting refugees who now live in crowded camps and who are becoming increasingly overcrowded due to the fact that more are now flowing across the border from Turkey. Is this what the government sees needed, both for Greece’s sake and not least for the sake of the refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e399	So Norway is making a major contribution to humanitarian affairs. It was just supposed to be missing. We're a rich country, we're going to help as much as possible, and we're going to help as much as possible where they are. Over the last few years, we've contributed 10 billion. kr to Syria to remedy a terrible difficult situation. A couple of weeks ago, we contributed 77 million. D to the UN Humanitarian Fund. Last week we traveled and contributed 350 EEA millions to help Greece deal with asylum applications, as well as providing staff and expertise. Norway helps. We have to do everything we can, and we also have to work with the EU to find solutions. What's the answer to this situation is getting a truce and ending the conflicts. But in the meantime, of course, we're going to help the refugees. And we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e404	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e409	If the answer to the problem is to get a truce and get peace in Syria, to prevent more refugees, it is a question of why NATO, of which Norway is part, now supports the international operations of Turkey and the invasion of Syrian territory. If it is that what creates refugees, are just Islamist terrorist gangs that wage war in Syria, and also wage war against civilians in Syria, why is Norway so little critical of our NATO ally, Turkey, invading Syrian territory to support the very last remnant of Islamist insurgents in the Idlib province, where one can get a million refugees out of war acts? Should not Norway, in such a situation – whose aim is, as the Council of State says, to have fewer refugees – stand up against the invasion of Turkey and also stand in favour of peace in Syria, rather than support this international lawless operation carried out by Turkey on Syrian territory?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e415	The President would just like to point out that the foreign policy issue is probably not within the constitutional sphere of the Minister of Justice, but it is up to the Minister of Justice to decide to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e420	Thank you for that, President, that's right, and I don't think anyone is worthy of the fact that the representative and I are beginning to discuss our relationship with NATO, which has ensured that Europe and we have lived peacefully since the war. I recognise that Red is against NATO, against the EEA, against international cooperation. I'm of the very opposite opinion. We're active in NATO, we're active in the EEA, we're active towards our allies, and we're active in both humanitarian and border control. Both parts are absolutely crucial if we are to help the people who need it, and of course we are to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e425	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e430	The governments of Erna Solberg have put the police in a very difficult economic situation. Both Troms, Trøndelag, South-West, South-East and Inland police districts are now flagging that they must save tens of millions of dollars in 2020 if they are not to run short. We have heard the same thing every year since the police reform was introduced. The near-police reform has sucked money into central bureaucracy and expensive leadership positions in the main seats. At the same time, response times have gone up in the districts, among people. In Finland, for example, response time increased for all sites with less than 20,000 inhabitants from 2016 to 2019. And so it's everywhere except for Hamar, which is the largest city. The government has carried out the largest centralisation in history of the Norwegian police. It is a reform that has become austerity and centralisation reform, not a near-police reform. The government has destroyed the police, who were to be present in people's everyday lives. Already in 2018, the trust elected in 11 out of 12 police districts in Norway on a police crisis. In 2019, there had been up to 12 out of 12 police districts. The government has not done anything to correct the course, which is that the police are being removed from people, even though former Minister of Justice Jøran Kallmyr promised long before Christmas that there would be a big message. We haven't seen anything else yet. The situation does not appear to be improving in 2020, with the signals we get from the police districts about large savings and a desperate situation. My question is: does the Council of State believe that the near-police reform is an appropriate name for the centralisation reform that the government has implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e443	I do not think it would surprise the representative at all that I believe that police reform is absolutely necessary. It's been important, and it's been right. There was an answer to a terrible situation in Norway on 22 July 2011, when we were undressed, and when we all saw how it was in Police and Preparedness Norway. We also see a crime that evolves, and methods that evolve. There are completely different forms of crime today than it was five and ten years ago. Then we can't, as the Center Party invites, have a police force today that's been spared for yesterday's solutions. We need a police officer to deal with today's and tomorrow's solutions. The truth is, in terms of money, that the police have been charged with $4.4 billion. NOK more and has got 2,800 more employees. They have improved their skills, they have improved their capacity, and they have improved their quality. And when we see that the proportion of cases relating to child abuse has increased by 160 p.m., I would be very worried about what happened to those cases before – even if I was in the Center Party. It's a very serious development, and we have to be rusted to handle that development. I mean, we are. So the question is, is the reform perfect? No, I don't think it is, and the bright light of the clock also gives us very clear answers. I will now deliver a police report – which has been notified for a long time, I fully agree with that. I would have liked to have delivered it before, but I must be allowed to do so in a proper way. It's coming pretty fast. It's coming, among other things. to sum up both what we've done, what we're doing, and what we're thinking in the future. But the police reform has not been completed. We've said we're going to evaluate it in 2022. Now we're in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e456	I asked a very simple yes/no question: Is the near-police reform a good name or not? It didn't answer the councils. Instead, she boasts that the police have been given so much money. We've heard that for years. But more use of money is not automatically the same as a better near-police. You have to look at what the money is actually going to do. As far back as 2012, the National Audit Office asked the police to slow down the use of consultants. In 2015, three years later, the police spent 1 million. kr on consultants every day. In 2018, three years after that again, that amount had grown even more, and was used among others. 1.3 million. kr every day only at IT consultants. In addition, central bureaucracy has exploded. The Directorate of Police, the ICT services of the police and the joint services of the police have been out-of-date; the number of employees has increased by over 144pst. Does the government have any control over the use of money in the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e461	First, I am pleased – for once – to agree with the Senterpartiet that more money is not always the solution. We don't usually agree on that. The answer to the Center Party tends to be that more money is the only solution. In the case of consulting services related to IT, I believe this is very sensible investments. We now see a completely different development, a technological development that the police must also be part of. In my weeks in the Ministry of Justice, I have talked to so many policemen that I know that the needs there for new skills and for new equipment are very great. So the answer is yes, I have full confidence that the police have control of this, that they are making the necessary investments, and that they are buying the necessary services. Before we warn our children against talking to strangers and accepting candy, the attacker can now be anyone, anywhere in the country and all day because it's happening online. So we have completely different challenges today than what we had before. The police have to be protected to handle it, and they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e468	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e473	I notice that Minister of Justice Monica Mæland chooses not to use the word ‘near-police reform’, that she keeps saying ‘police reform’. This is probably because the so-called near-police reform has become the centralisation of the Norwegian police. Through a broad review at the Police College, the main article just concluded that this was the centralisation of the Norwegian police of the time, and that a lie was actually put into the very name of the reform. So it wasn't a near-police reform, but it was the centralisation reform of the Norwegian police, and then you have to dry up for it. I notice that the Council of State no longer uses the word ‘near-police reform’, and that is a recognition that it has been a centralisation reform. My question is: now all the trustees in the various police districts have said that there has become less close to the police. At first there were eleven of the twelve police districts who said that there were crisis-like conditions, then there were twelve out of twelve critics. And now the police chief after the police chief says that there must be savings, at the latest in Troms, where a letter was sent out to all the rapporteurs and announced that there could be cut and poorer services and poorer local preparedness. Will the Council of State listen to the trusted and police officers, or will she continue to boast?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e480	I haven't met anyone, neither employees nor police officers, through these weeks that are against the police reform. Weaknesses in the reform are highlighted. The central party is opposed to the reform, and the question is, of course, what is the Central Party's response to the challenges we now face? What is the Central Party's answer that abuse of children is exploding? Where was the police before? Now they're there, and they're taking the attackers. This is incredibly important. Then I register that police officers want more money. They have that in common with most executives in all public enterprises. There is no problem to understand, and the money is definitely coming along well. But the police, including this year, have got more resources, more money. When it comes to cutting budgets, it's based on what I heard the police chief in Troms said: expected budget. But it's not called the expected budget, it's called the allocated budget. You've got more money, so you get more money both for investigation and for hiring more police officers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e487	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e493	In Dagbladet, the Minister of Justice and I have discussed a little bit about the problems of the near-police reform is a reputation or not. The councils challenge me to give an example of the agreements we made in Stortinget, were broken, and I thought to do so. Now it is also apparent from the questions raised by the Central Party that the near-police reform has undoubtedly become austerity reform. It would certainly not be – clearly underlined by those behind the conciliation. A promise to the inhabitants, that we gave to everyone, is broken, bit by bit. I assume that the Council of State is aware of the contents of that promise. And not least, the Storting has agreed that all remaining service locations should be strengthened. This will not be followed up by the government of the day. The seven predecessors of the Minister of Justice have not been able to answer any of these questions. So I ask the Minister of Justice if she can explain in concrete and precise terms the cause of the breaches of local processes, of funding, and why it is so wise to do what the Storting has said when it comes to strengthening the remaining service locations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e500	We disagree with the premise for the question, and then it will be very difficult to give the representative an answer that the representative is satisfied with. So I don't think the deal is broken, I think the police have been given a lot of resources in recent years. I believe that when we see that the number of employees has gone up by 2,800 – of which 1,700 are police officers, of which 1,500 are in the districts – that means that we have done something right. Then I fully agree – and I have also said that – that no reform is perfect, and that we can certainly work on strengthening the remaining office. It is that the service of the inhabitants is strengthened, and it shows the number related to children very well. These issues that have increased by 160 pst. are not children living in cities. These are children who live all over the country, in the countryside and in the city. The cases are now being investigated and the attackers are now being convicted. That's an important answer. But we're going to deliver a police report, we're going to explain to the Storting, and we're going to come back and have a good debate on these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e509	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e514	I notice that the Council of State is disunity in the premise, because it is obvious that the government has left the premise, which was agreed, which was agreed by us in the Stortinget on a near-police reform, and which the country has certainly not seen the turn of. If one thinks that the services for people locally have improved – then I think one must have been very much inside the Ministry of Justice, to mean it. It's just to talk to the first trust officer in the police, who has said this for a long time, but now also the police officers in the country take the magazine from their mouths. I'm experiencing a state council that almost cares about the need for increased capacity in the police districts. Inland police districts, the largest police district geographically in Norway, have to cut several million. There's going to be a problem with local preparedness. Will the Minister of Justice then explain how a concrete – according to the prime minister of justice who assesses it – has strengthened the local police?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e521	So I have repeatedly explained the fact in the matter to the representative. I understand that it disturbs the story, but the fact is more money and more policemen. So there's more capacity, there's more quality, and there's more competence. That means that very much in this reform is going very well and going in the right direction. Are we on target? No, no, no. Can improvements be made? Yeah, sure. We're going to get back to that. But the closest thing to call it, as the Center Party did, is that you have ‘raved’ police Norway – then I believe that you have not followed what has happened since 22 July 2011. Then we have not followed the methodology and the challenge we face in the crime scene. You just haven't followed up on what's going on. What I can answer for is what we've done in our years, and it's been about strengthening the police. I also feel that the vast majority of people I talk to in the police are saying. But there are weaknesses, and we have to take that seriously, and I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e528	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e533	It is a refugee crisis we now see in Europe and Greece – and a humanitarian crisis. The situation in Greece is disastrous. There are dangerous conflicts between the local population and Greek authorities because they want to place even more refugees on the islands. There is a conflict between the local population and the refugees, and the right-hand extremes rather gasoline on the fire. In the wake of major policy, refugees are now in a war zone. Many of them are children. Several thousand are alone. The council says we're going to help them where they are now. Yeah, what about the Moria camp where they're sitting? There is now attacking the right extreme. There are no help organisations coming in. Health care is over. The small offer to young people who sit there alone, all the way down to the age of four, is gone. The roads are blocked. We are in the process of reaching a bottom-up level of what the European authorities are doing to prevent some refugees from entering Europe. The situation in Moria cannot continue. The kids have to get out. Nothing of what we propose is going to solve everything, but Norway can do anything. We can evacuate children who are on their own, out of this hell. I know that the Council of State is going to attend an important meeting today. She's probably already almost black that she's not going to do anything. But this isn't going to solve itself. The humanitarian disaster for the children sitting alone will not be resolved until several European countries do as Finland, Germany and France do and take some of these children out of the camps. Will the Council of States put this on the table in contact with the other European leaders and perhaps get a little relief for some of these children?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e546	I am very much in agreement with the terrible description given by the representative of the situation in the refugee camp, but I do not agree with the solution to the problem. Do we want to help someone? We'll help as much as we can, and then we'll help them where they are. Bringing up someone makes a lot of people want to be back. We need to help Greece cope with the refugee situation, and that is my starting point for the meeting in the EU today. We have to get common solutions in place. We can help many more where they are, instead of picking up someone to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e551	There is no contradiction between helping more people where they are and evacuating some of the most vulnerable children, who are real refugees, who have been alone for several years and who now do not even have health care or general security. They haven't had school for years. Unfortunately, Greek authorities are unable to provide security in these areas. Norway has provided Greece with considerable financial resources over several years. We have got a lot of that money back. I have sailed down there and seen. It's an inconvenient place to be. Then my question is: how will the Council of State now ensure that these children get a minimum of security, schooling and health care where they are, when the Greek authorities are unable to prevent the right-wing extremities from attacking them, as they are doing now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e556	So Norway is contributing. We contribute humanitarianly – I have explained this – in Syria, Greece and through the UN humanitarian fund. And of course, we're going to keep doing that. We need to help Greece cope with an entirely unsustainable refugee situation, but the answer is not to open Norwegian borders. The answer is not to signal to international gangs, as we've seen in the last few days have said that they take half the price for people to put their lives on and put themselves in a bottomless debt, by bringing refugees to Greece, and then brings them into a completely unfamiliar situation. The signal power is quite important. If you look at the signal that was given from Turkey that they opened the borders, or the signal we saw in the media yesterday that there were boats ready to bring refugees over, then the refugees are looking for these places. They want to move to Europe, they want a better future. That is quite understandable, but it is not what the asylum institution is supposed to embrace. That is why we need to work with the EU to find lasting and good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e563	It opens up to follow-up questions – first the representative Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e569	I have to say that I'm actually getting quite angry to hear the Council of State stand and talk like there's someone who has suggested that you open all the borders, as if Greece is able to handle this, as if the children who have been sitting in these camps for years don't have the right to help and a human life. We can do something. Now the government sits and looks at, two hands, hiding behind other European leaders and waiting for the whole of Europe to agree. They're not going to be. There are right-wing regimes in several countries in Europe that are going to say no either, whether thousands of children die in the camps in Greece, or whether they die at the border between Turkey and Greece. Yes, it's a big political game, yes, many are now playing with the refugees, but Norway can help some of the children, and I react very strongly to the government not wanting to do what they can do, namely evacuate some children. Everything else we have very little power over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e576	I am quite provoked that the representative gives the impression that Norway is not doing anything. We're among the countries that do the most. The question is what is SV's answer? Who are we going to help? What children are to be brought out, and how many? And how long does that last? It sounds awfully simple, but this situation is not simple and does not invite for simple solutions either. So we've contributed 10 billion. kr over four years to Syria. We contributed 350 million. kr only last week to Greece. We've contributed 77 million. kr to the UN. I guess Andersen's pretty tired of numbers, but the figures are about money for humanitarian contributions to help people in need. That's what this is all about. However, we need to find solutions other than bringing someone to Norway, because it will not contribute to a solution. We have to have completely different answers to this very complicated conflict. It's an inconspicuous situation, and we have to do what we can. Then we'll help most of them where they are now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e586	No one has said that this is going to solve everything. There is no one who has said that there is one solution. There's a lot of hard things that need to be done to solve this. But what we can do is help some children who are in extreme distress, who are alone, and who have been so long. Just before Christmas, when Norway got back 600 million. With regard to the EEA funds, SV proposed to set them aside for humanitarian aid in Greece, in refugee camps and in the neighbourhoods to make it viable there. Then the government and the majority voted it down. So it's not in SV when it comes to helping someone in the neighbourhoods, but now the neighbourhoods are inconvenient for children who are alone on the run, and Norway can help someone. No one has said that it solves everything, but it solves the situation for some children. And I'm at least in the policy of trying to help some of those who have the most difficulty, sail if I don't think I can always help everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e593	I just repeat: we help many, not just some, we help a lot. Norway contributes a lot per capita — it should be lacking, we are a rich country. We're going to help, we're going to spend our resources on humanitarian efforts and on helping Greece to deal with the situation they're in. We do that, and we're still going to do that. What we disagree about is whether we should pick up someone from Norway. I'm saying it doesn't solve the problem, that there have to be other solutions. Then we'll get asylum seekers to Norway. We have a quota refugee program that we're following up on. So we're doing our part of the world -- it's just supposed to be missing -- and we're going to keep doing that. But this is not the answer to the conflict we see, and the inconclusive situation that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e603	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e608	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Today, 'Petter in prison' starts on TV 2. Is punishment working? Are they being rehabilitated? This is what Petter asks about in a big case in the newspaper today. That crime prevention and rehabilitation during the atoning period are no longer prioritised by the right-wing government, I think I'm wasting valuable time. Today’s right-wing policy and lack of interest in Norwegian criminal care, as well as reducing open prisons and implementing a prison cut policy, are very negative and give cause for concern. Bet on a soning content is a very central part of the punishment, and it is also very important for those on the outside of the prison walls. Those who are victims of crime, in fact, seem to be doing what we can to punish and rehabilitate criminals. Those who punish in prison should one day become our neighbour. Under Erna Solberg's eight Justice Ministers, a number of open-ended prisons have been laid down. The budget is a troupe, and my claim is that one builds down Norwegian criminal custody, as we know it. Programme activities that we know to function, such as a sense of urgency course, ‘Daddy in prison’, ‘Ruprogramm’, etc., will be reduced. My question to the Minister of Justice is: What will the eighth Minister of Justice do to make us not slow, but probably move us back to a time when water and bread were in focus? And what will the Minister of Justice do in concrete terms to reverse the negative developments we see in Norwegian prison and care?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e623	I understand that my invitation to call me ‘number eight’ has really won a resound at the Workers’ Party. I disagree – not unexpectedly – with the representative’s description of the situation. I dare say that we probably have among the best, not to say the best, criminal care in the world. I think you should travel far to find the equivalent. Of course, that doesn't mean that we can't always get better, but during this government's period, the number in prison queues has fallen dramatically. We have much higher penalties than the Workers' Party had in its eight red-green years. Criminal services have been strengthened by a budget of 1.2 billion. kr since 2013. Activity per prison day has increased. Then it is true that there have been changes in the programme activity, but it needs to be seen in a context. It might be a pretty small part of this. We've strengthened sleep-stressing programs, we've set up pathfinder programs – so that's what happens. I look forward to Petter outlying program. I had hoped to be at the premiere today, but I'm going to Brussels instead. We can probably get good insights into improvements further, but my starting point is that we have a solid criminal code in Norway. We have, and we're going to have. But it's punishment, and it's a situation you can avoid if you don't commit a criminal act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e638	Yeah, that's a good tip. It was also a long list of boasts, but I don't get any answers to what I'm asking for, because once again in the Labour Party we ask about the content of soning, about rehabilitation – it's that we want one to be less criminal when one comes out than when one comes in, hopefully. There is reason for concern. The councils have had seven predecessors, I should like to think she wasn't number eight, believe me, but since the council is, I have a little hope that maybe this council will care more about prison content, that we should do more to rehabilitate deployment. We are also waiting for a big message in this area. State Council will take a look at St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008, which Knut Storberget delivered? Will the Council of State ensure that the message coming to the Storting does something about the situation, which is unworthy in very many of the country's prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e643	Once again, I have to say that the description does not fit the situation. Prison queues go down, followed by rehabilitation, too. We are now opening a new prison in Agder in June – a new, modern, activity-based prison. So the activity per prison day has increased, not decreased. It's very good, considering the rehabilitation of the prisoner. So that's how low-risk prison sites are shut down. That's because this government has contributed to a lot more sons at home and can continue in work, in education, just in terms of rehabilitation. Then we need less space on low security than we had before, and then we need more security. I've also been to Bjørgvin and I've seen the places made for young people between 15 and 18 years of age. It's very resource-intensive, but very right to do, to put in place good deals for the younger ones who have committed very serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e648	There will be follow-up questions – first Lene Wagslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e653	Let me stress that there is a lot of good work being done in the Norwegian criminal justice system by those who work there. But the concerns we get from all those added and trusted, it doesn't seem to me to be a bit of a government. I don't get any answers to my questions, so now I'm going to try to be very specific, because the council answers me with quantity when I ask qualitative questions. If a person thinks it's important to work and rehabilitation when a son, we know that in Oslo prison only half of them are there, who have a job offer or education. This means that they're sitting on the cell or doing very little sensible things. Do the councils think it would be good for social security, for all of us on the outside of the walls, if we strengthened the possibility of inside prison for rehabilitation, work and meaningful activity, or does the council believe that being kept in a prison itself makes one think so carefully that when one comes out again, one does not do anything more criminal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e659	I have registered that the Labour Party has visited Oslo prison. Out of it it came that it was now more dangerous to have prisoners as a neighbour than before. Fortunately, the Workers' Party has no coverage to mean that. It's that activity is good, it's that education and work are good, and it's that more than ever now sons in a way that allows them to continue in activity, in education. It is also the case that the level of activity in prisons has increased. There have been changes in the programmes – that is quite right – but they are part of a larger debate. So I just have to repeat: we can constantly improve. I'd like to listen to good advice. If they come from a former Minister of Justice from the Labour Party, I must listen to them too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e666	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e671	This issue is also addressed to the Minister of Justice, and this is a point on the Granavolden platform, which is about a one-off solution for long-term, unrecoverable elderly asylum seekers. This was a compromise that had been negotiated, and it has also been broken in retrospect and has gone a little beyond what was really at the original point of the Granavolden platform. The whole reason why those who want such a one-off solution, or such an amnesty, will have it in place, is that these asylum seekers cannot be returned with coercion and that a different solution should be found. That's the argument. It is then that, in both the Granavolden platform and in all debates around this, this should be limited to ineligible asylum seekers. It has now been sent to the hearing, and what is stated in the consultation proposal is that the system should not apply to those who have already been returned. It would then sound as if it would apply to returnables that have not yet been returned. To the same extent, the Ministry was also able to issue an instruction to stop returns that could have been covered by the scheme. All that time the system should not include those that can be returned, it must be the greatest contradiction in any case I have heard of: stopping the returns of unreturnable. That is why I need to be informed about this. Can the Minister of Justice answer: Why was there a need to stop returns of irrecoverable? And is it so that the government has now extended the scheme to people that the government can return?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e682	It is true that four parts of Granavolden last year agreed on a one-off solution for the long term that had not been returned, with at least 16 years of residence in Norway. So on the last question, I want to answer very clearly: the government has not expanded the circle that was agreed on at Granavolden – on the contrary, the government has tried to bring this about. Thus, not all 16-year-olds in Norway are allowed to stay: they have arrived. It is the age related to the period of residence of 65 years. If you are convicted, if you have acted contrary to the individual rules of the Foreign Affairs Act, you cannot stay. One must also be able to prove that one has been in Norway for all these years. So it's hit compared to what was written on the Granavolden platform. What's unfortunate, of course, is that this rule hasn't come into place, that you haven't had this point squeezed out. We have now done so, and then it was my opinion that, while we were sending to the hearing a solution that was promised over a year ago, linked to the long-terms who had not let themselves be returned, we asked the Foreign Affairs Department not to give priority to this group, but rather to all the others who are staying in Norway and who are to be returned. That doesn't mean that the group is expanded. We still think this is about a few dozen people, as far as we know. So that doesn't mean that the group is expanded, and that doesn't mean that people who aren't being returned today have received a residence permit. But that means there's a concrete assessment that has to be made against a group that's been here a very long time and that's got a promise over a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e691	That, I think, was a very unclear answer to the question, which concerns whether this has occurred in order to apply only to undetectable. Because in the hearing, it doesn't say that. When it is so clear in the Granavolden platform that it only applies to unreturnables, it would be obvious that you don't have to do anything and instruct someone to stop returns, because in any case they are not to be included in the scheme. Now I didn't get any better at what the government was going to do at all, because it's quite clear that the government has stopped returning. Then I want a clear and clear answer from the minister as to whether she can guarantee that no one who could have been returned will be covered by this one-off solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e696	I understand that this is complicated. The word "unturnable" is not an exact term. It is, of course, a political concept, but it is not an exact legal concept. This means that people who can be returned because they have a return agreement cannot necessarily be returned. We have a return agreement with several countries, but we can't return people. This means that the group that has been here for a long time has not been able to get back for a variety of reasons. It's this group of Granavolden Platforms that meant to embrace, it's this group the government has now sent a proposal to consult on, and it's the people we're aiming at a one-off solution to. If there are persons who have not stayed for long, who are returnable, they will be returned. But it's an unpresist concept, and that's why it's not used in the regulatory hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e701	We move on to the next main question, which is asked by the representative Heidi Greni. The President may reveal that the Council of State may be able to go down and sit down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e708	I've become so used to standing here!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e713	President, the intuition is fine – my question goes to the district minister! If we are to maintain the settlement structure in Norway and slow down the increase in centralisation, we are dependent on a wide-ranging district policy both in terms of transport and broadband throughout the country, in terms of a decentralised education provision, and in terms of the presence of police, health protection, fire preparedness, etc., and that we have equivalent municipal services throughout the country. That's what I call broad district policy. However, we also rely on having a narrow district policy that works, and the regional policy instruments are important. Regional development funds are incredibly important to stimulate business start-ups in rural areas. They are now more than halved under today's government. But what is the most important means of regional policy, in my opinion, is the differentiated employer's fee. There are no other instruments that have proved to be equally effective in achieving business start-ups in rural areas and in preventing population decline. Lower employer’s fee helps to offset distance disadvantages for companies located far away from the market. This arrangement, today's agreement, expires in 2020, so the agreement must be renegotiated this year. Does the central government council share the view that the differentiated employer fee is the most important regional policy instrument we have? And can the Council of State guarantee that today's system of differentiated employer fees will continue after 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e724	First of all, I just have to be allowed to say that I am very, very surprised, because the Central Party went out in the paper 14 days ago and said that they never came to ask any question to any district minister in Stortinget. The centre party made it clear that they were not interested in discussing the opportunities and challenges for the districts with the district minister. So now I was kind of out of shape. But I have to say that I am very pleased that the representative, Mr. Greni, does not agree with his party leader, Battle Violence Vedum, and I am concerned that the government can also, together with the parties in Stortinget, do what we have the opportunity to ensure further growth and development throughout the country. Then I have to agree quite with the representative, Mr. Greni, that a differentiated employer's fee is one of the most important tools we have. But when the colleague of Greni, the county councillor of Troms and Finnmark, wants to reduce the employer’s fee down to 3 pst. for North Norway, for Bodø and Tromsø, I am first of all a little questioning about where to take that money from. What's the tax when the Senter Party is going to increase? And then you attack Kongswinger, because they have so low an employer's fee. Then I would like to remind you that Kongswinger has not had population growth in the last 30 years and has a low employment rate, while the opposite is true in North Norway. There's unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e731	I don't think I'm going to comment. But we can continue the discussion about a differentiated employer's fee. Predictability is important for business, especially in the districts, and especially for those who consider establishing themselves in the districts. We get feedback that there is now a great deal of concern about the government will give priority to differentiated employer fees in these negotiations, especially with the back cover we have from the beginning of the 2000s. I am very interested in hearing the Council of State explain what kind of goal the government has in the negotiations, and whether the Council of State can guarantee that a new agreement will be at least as good or better than today's arrangement. I do not expect to hear any percentages, but the position of the government in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e737	I can reassure the representative, Mr. Greni, that the system of differentiated employer fees is one of the government's most important regional policy instruments, precisely because it contributes, among other things. to reduce or prevent population decline in rural areas. Many municipalities in South Norway have, among other things: have experienced a negative development of the population, and we see how the differentiated employer’s fee works there. The government follows this matter very closely. Of course, I can't give any guarantees now, I can't do that until we see what's the end result, but there's no doubt that the government is very concerned that this fee is so important that we're going to be able to grow in jobs around the whole of Norway. I know this very well myself from my own country, from Orkland, where you are in the south, in Meldal, have quite different challenges than, for example, in the Hurricane region, and the importance of continuing to contribute to growth and development in the Meldal region.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e742	There will be follow-up questions – first Heidi Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e747	Then I would like to follow up with another concern that we have received feedback, and that is: Will the government continue to look at individual municipalities as an isolated area? We have many individual municipalities around us that may have municipalities around them without challenges, but these individual municipalities may have very special challenges and are now concerned that the government will also centralize the map in this area, so that large regions are seen together. If there is a large engine in that region, a differentiated employer’s fee is put on the outside side, despite the fact that the individual municipality has major challenges, both demographically and commercially. So my question is, what kind of position and goal does the government have here, and how do you see that this map should look like after these negotiations are concluded, if we get a pass? Is it going to look something like that right now, with the same entry points that are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e752	I can say that all municipalities will also be reviewed at the next audit, and there is no automation in that municipalities get the same rate or remain within the scheme they are today. I see that it is a municipality that, after being merged, is concerned that they should not keep their rate. This is something we are now following very closely, and I as a district minister am very concerned about, because I believe that this employer's fee is so important for the growth of employment, and for people to live and live throughout Norway. But then we see, for example. a municipality like Kongswinger, who had no population growth, and the growth of employment was very weak, despite being an hour away from the capital. So there is no automation in which municipalities should get a differentiated employer's fee. So we're going to go over all of the municipalities again at the next revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e757	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e771	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health and Welfare, has been withdrawn. Question 3, by the representative Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, is absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e785	‘Statistical Central Bureau published on 15 January 2020 new figures showing a trade deficit for mainland Norway of 275,7 billion. kr. In 2013, the trade deficit for mainland Norway was 152 billion. kr, and the trade deficit has increased markedly each year during the current government. Does the Council of State believe that this development makes Norway more or less dependent on revenue from the oil and gas activities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e792	We enjoy our oil and gas business. The demand for goods and services from the mainland economy thus contributes to employment and value creation across large parts of the country. In addition, it collects large income from the sector through tax receipts and income from its direct financial involvement. Norway has not become more oil dependent in recent years, rather on the contrary. The demand from the petroleum industry, which is the sum of investments, intermediate consumption and compensation of employees in the sector, has fallen from 13,5 pst. measured in relation to GDP of mainland Norway in 2013 to 8.8 pst. in 2019. Similarly, employment related to the petroleum activity, directly or indirectly, has also fallen. From 2013 to 2018, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, there have been 90 000 fewer direct or indirect employed in Norwegian petroleum extraction. The calculations show that about 5 pst. of total employment, close to 140000 persons, employment in industries directly or indirectly related to Norwegian petroleum activities in 2018. The corresponding figures were 230,000 in 2013. The sharp decline in demand from the oil industry and the decline in employment related to the industry illustrate that Norwegian industry has become clearly less oil dependent, a point the governor also made in his last year. Despite this decrease in oil industry, good growth has been achieved in the Norwegian economy and overall employment. It illustrates that the strong policy measures to convert the Norwegian economy have worked. Competitiveness has been greatly improved, as a result of both weaker dollar rates, wage moderation and significant relief in corporate taxation. Government finances have also become less oil dependent in recent years. In the last three budgets, the use of oil money has been kept roughly constant as a share of the value creation of the mainland economy, and in the 2020 budget, the use of oil money is thus reduced. More generally, Norwegian national wealth has also become less oil dependent. When we invest the revenue from the oil and gas business in foreign securities, we change the oil and gas assets on the ground into financial assets. It makes national wealth less sensitive to changes in oil and gas prices. The action rule relates the amount of the oil-corrected deficit on the State budget to the return of the fund. It protects the budget for fluctuations in oil and gas prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e807	As the Council of State began, Norway benefits from large revenues from oil and gas activities, and we should be pleased about that. It also employs a lot of people and contributes to the creation of value both on the base and on the land. But the question I asked was an ever-increasing trade deficit from mainland Norway. That means that in terms of the value of what we export to the value of what we import, the imbalance is growing. Then, of course, we become more dependent on the revenues we have had and still have from the oil and gas business. Can the Council of State confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e818	In my speech, I pointed out three important factors that determine how oil dependent we are, namely the state's revenues from the petroleum industry, the demand from the oil industry and the number of jobs associated with the oil industry. When we look at the three factors, we've become less oil dependent in recent years. Then it is true that the oil business imports many goods and services from abroad, and it is also true that the oil business buys many services from the mainland industry that could alternatively be exported if we had not had the oil business. I disagree with the claim made by the representative, namely that there are similarities between the trade deficit and our oil dependence. I think there are other explanation factors that are central to the question that is being raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e825	There are other factors that are also important to measure in relation to and that give cause for concern. One of them is, among other things: non-petroleum industry had a decline in production from 2018 to 2019. Industrial enterprises outside oil clusters had a weak development in exports in addition to a weak development on the domestic market — whereas the petroleum-oriented supplier industry went well because of large petroleum investments on the base and internationally, in addition to a weak crown. It is important to facilitate the strengthening of industry in mainland Norway. In this way, industry is committed to having good and reasonable electricity prices in the future – predictability. One is engaged in network rental costs that are on the way to increasing and one is concerned with charging policy. Finally, the State budget introduced new taxes for the process industry, both emission-reliable, which received double instruments and new taxes that were introduced. Is the Council willing to review the charges in order to strengthen the framework conditions of the process industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e832	I have noted the comments of the majority of the Finance Committee and will of course look at it. But what the representative jumps over completely is that the conversion has been successful so far. In 2014, we experienced the strongest fall in the oil price of 30 years, we lost almost 90 000 jobs in oil-related industries. Today, we can say that employment is higher than it was before the fall in oil prices, unemployment is the lowest in 10 years, and growth is good. It shows that the conversion has been successful so far. This also means that Norway has become less oil dependent because growth in other mainland industries has been higher. We are still facing some challenges, and that is why this government will keep the tax level down and ensure good growth conditions for private activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e846	This question is drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e860	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e868	‘To NTB on 9 February, the Council of State wrote: ‘A yes to the protection of LoVeSe will lead to the disappearance of tens of thousands of district jobs from the country.’ In a written question on 10 February, I asked the Council of State to present the calculation behind this claim and an overview of how many jobs have disappeared since 2013 because of the government’s refusal to consistently investigate the areas outside the Lofoten, the West Sea and the Senja for oil drilling. On 17 February the Council of State did not answer my question at all. That's why I'm repeating it. What does the calculation behind the claim of the Council of State look like, and how many jobs have disappeared since 2013 because of the government’s refusal to coordinate areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja for oil drilling?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e875	I want to thank you for giving me the opportunity to come to Stortinget and repeat my answer. It is the same thing that I gave on 17 February about the direct and indirect effects of petroleum activities in the long term contribute to creating and maintaining, and how the industry provides tens of thousands of jobs in the country. My estimate of tens of thousands of jobs is an illustration that the possible ringing effects of the petroleum activity are high. Petroleum activity is Norway’s largest industry measured in value added, state income and export value. The value added per directly employed petroleum industry in 2018 was around 25 million. kr. By comparison, the value creation per person employed for the mainland economy totaled about 1 million. kr. According to the SSB, approximately 24 000 people are employed directly in industry, but directly and indirectly more than 200000 jobs can be linked to the petroleum activity, according to Menon Economics. This includes the activity on our Norwegian base and to our export markets. A strong domestic market is essential for companies and their employees in Norway to maintain their technological skills and thus be internationally successful. I do not therefore believe that tens of thousands of jobs are directly linked to potential search activities – I believe the vast majority of those who have read this case understand – nor do they understand the operation of the fields that may be found in the areas outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. What I expressed first of all concern is that the protection of marine areas outside the Lofoten, the West Sea and Senja creates the impression that Norway will not invest in the oil industry in the future. The knowledge we have today suggests that it should be possible to conduct adequate petroleum activities in this area as well. Therefore, the primary point of view of the Right is that the area should be examined in a consistent manner, so that we can have a good factual basis. The oil industry creates jobs that are scattered throughout the country, especially in the supplier industry. These are jobs that largely depend on the demand for Norwegian oil and gas production to create according to their goods and services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e890	I thank you for the non-response, because I register again that I am not getting an answer to what I am asking for. When a government council sends a written message to the media that tens of thousands of district jobs will disappear out of the country as a result of the policy that today's government is also pursuing by not initiating oil activities outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja, then I expect the Council of State to actually have an account behind this, which documents that claim. But I can see that I don't get it. My question is whether the council will admit that she took a little bit of Møller's tear when she sent that message.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e897	I can tell that on the day the message was sent, I was at the annual meeting in Trøndelag Right. There was great tension about what more states in the Right would conclude with after debate on the protection of LoVeSee or not. I was very happy – as a politician from Trøndelag, as chairman of the Right Programme Committee, and as a State Council – that the majority of the counties in the Right did not go to the drastic step of adopting protection. As a district minister, I am concerned that there is a very close link between the important district work places and future activity on the Norwegian base. Most municipalities in Norway have workers working either directly or indirectly in the oil industry. And I'm really worried about the signal we're giving, that you don't want to bet on the oil industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e904	If it wasn't taken too much Møller's crane, perhaps the written message to NTB was written in euphoric rush over the Trendelag Right decision. I want to quote a report that came last year, Index Nordland 2019. It reads as follows: ‘Of the Nordic regions, Lofoten has the strongest growth driven by increased activity in aquaculture, fisheries, tourism and fishing. Since the end of 2015, Lofoten and Salten have experienced higher turnover growth than the other regions of the county.’» It also states that all regions are above the national average and that it is worth noting that Lofoten’s population development is ‘clearly stimulated by the increased activity’. The question is: does the Council not see that oil drilling in these areas is just going to threaten the industries that have been experiencing strong growth in recent years — travel and fishing, among others.?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e918	It's great to see how travel life flourishes in Lofoten, how seafood and aquaculture are important for growth and development, not only in Lofoten, but throughout North Norway. But I have to remind you that saying yes to more knowledge, saying yes to impact assessment, is not the same thing as saying yes to oil drilling. I have never said yes to oil drilling. The right has never said yes to oil drilling outside LoVeSe. We've said that we want more knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e926	‘In the Address Paper on 21 February 2020, the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation said that the municipal reform had to continue and that Norway still has ‘too many small municipalities’, which he exemplified by referring to how many Norwegian municipalities have less than 3000 inhabitants. In Trøndelag today there are 15 municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants. Does the Council of State think that these should merge, and in that case how does he intend to achieve this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e933	Arrangements for further work on municipal mergers include, inter alia: presented to Stortinget in the municipal bill for 2019 and the municipal bill for 2020. The size of the store has given its support to this work. It should not therefore come as a surprise to the representative Arnstad that I, as Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, write a chronicle that I point out that we have too many small municipalities in Norway. The issue of municipal size has been regularly on the agenda over the post-war period as the welfare state has been expanded. As early as the 1950s, Stortinget concluded that there was a need for a certain size of municipalities if they were to have the role of state welfare policy. The discussion is also ongoing in our neighbouring country, where municipalities, as in Norway, are responsible for large welfare tasks. Further work on the municipal structure is based on volunteering and local initiatives, in line with the Stortinge decision of 7 December 2017. It is therefore up to local politicians to consider whether they want to address the issue, and which of the neighbours they want to talk to. This also applies to municipal councils in Trøndelag. In their recommendations for municipal structure in the autumn of 2016, the county officials wrote that in the long term, Tøndelag should consist of 15-19 municipalities. I believe that all municipalities should regularly discuss whether the municipal borders are adapted to today's and tomorrow's challenges, and would like to now be in conjunction with the planning work to be carried out in all the municipalities of the country. It is a good opportunity to address the question of whether the municipality has the necessary prerequisites to meet the challenges they will face in the future. The assessment by the county council can then be a good starting point for the discussion. If the Storting wishes all municipalities to continue to have the same tasks and to have real democratic control over these tasks, this government is still of the opinion that several municipal mergers are necessary. No one should be surprised that I, as Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, am writing a chronicle that is actually a reminder that not all the challenges were solved in the municipal reform we have been through so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e946	I thank you for your answer. I am still a little uncertain and would like to have a clear response from the Council of State: does he believe that municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants should join forces? Well, does he know what he wrote in that comment? It would have been nice to get a concrete answer to that, because in my region almost all the municipalities in the inner parts of Namdalen have less than 3,000 inhabitants. The lines have 1,400, the Highlands have 2,500, Røyrvik has 600 and Namsskogan has 800 to 900. Does he think they should join forces?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e951	I think all small municipalities should take the discussion about the local boundaries is right, in order to meet the challenges of the future, but also in order to be able to solve the welfare tasks in the best possible way for their citizens. Where the centre party is most concerned with counting the number of town halls, I am concerned with counting teachers, home nurses and other professional staff who are going to help people get the services they deserve, expect and have requirements. We would like to think that the municipal structure as it is today should be preserved on a Norwegian glass. I don't think that's the answer for the future. I hear very little from the Central Party about how they intend to contribute to the ability of municipalities to meet the challenges in the future, other than to be against changing the local boundaries in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e958	I don't know if the council has been in Inner Namdal, but if you combine the Highlands, the Lierne, the Namskogan and Røyrvik, you get a municipality with an area of the size of Westfold. Then I have to ask: why should you do that, when the local authorities, with 1,400 inhabitants, have today a primary school that is absolutely amazing, and where they actually serve the kids a hot school meal every day and have a sports park near primary school? No one complains at primary school in Lierne, with 1 400 people. The highlands, which have 2,500 inhabitants, have cut almost the highest on the Municipal Barometer year after year because of the good welfare services they provide to their inhabitants. Because they have good kindergartens. No one's waiting in kindergarten. They have a good primary school, and they do not at least have a good care for the elderly. When municipalities with the number of inhabitants provide such good services, what should be the reason for them to merge? At least it can't be the number of home nurses or teachers that the council here refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e969	I am the first to rejoice that municipalities, whether small or large, provide good services to their inhabitants, and that the inhabitants are satisfied with those services. This does not mean, however, that the municipalities are necessarily well equipped to meet the developments we are now seeing, with a population development where fewer and fewer people of working age are to provide more and more people who are not in work. I'm busy listening, not only to the Center Party people who have offices in Oslo, but also to people who have their shoes on out there. The councillors have given clear advice that there is a need for continued community reform. Even local central party politicians do that, for example. Lise Marie Sommerstad from Sandefjord, who, in conjunction with the merger with Andebu, said: «We've got bigger relationships and larger and better trade unions in the merged municipality. It's some of the things that have mattered most to me." Perhaps we should listen to just local central party politicians in this process as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e981	People elected in Oslo, councillor!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e986	The next question is from the representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand and goes to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e994	The question is: ‘The Council of State writes in the Address Paper on 21 February 2020 that the municipal reform must continue in order to achieve coherent urban housing and labour market areas and that ‘120 municipalities have fewer than 3000 inhabitants. For many of them, the challenges are not a future scenario. It is a reality.» Which municipalities in large-scale electoral district Uppland do the Council of State think should be merged?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1001	I could in particular refer to my previous answer. We could have given ourselves there, but since there are now a number of questions about exactly the same thing in a row, I'm still going to take the opportunity to elaborate something on Uppland. As I said in my reply to the representative Arnstad, the work on municipal structure is based on volunteering and local initiatives, in line with the Stortinge decision of 7 December 2017. It is therefore up to local politicians to consider whether they want to address the question of who of the neighbours they want to talk to. This also applies to the local government of the former Uppland State. I think they should take this discussion. I do not want to point to specific municipalities in former Uppland that I think should merge, but I would like to remind the representative of the recommendation from the county office in the then Uppland in 2016 that shows that there is a need for structural changes there as well. The recommendation stated: ‘Based on Stortinget’s objectives with the reform, Fylkesmannen will recommend a municipal structure in Uppland consisting of eight to ten municipalities.’ The municipalities of the former Uppland County will also meet challenges in the form of, among others,: Population decline and population ageing in the future. These don't go over, and they'll be heavier to meet for the smallest municipalities. I'm not saying that community reunification will solve the challenges alone, but building stronger municipalities will make municipalities better able to provide services to the citizens and to develop their municipality in a good and sustainable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1010	The problem is that the general approach of the Council of State shows little local knowledge and also little interest in local conditions. The Council of State further writes in its statement: ‘The government has decided that local initiatives and voluntary action should form the basis for the municipal reform during this period. Of course, this is the government’. The municipalities of Oppland made extensive efforts to assess mergers and consequences and to conduct referendums. Freedom-based — what instruments will the Council of State use to force new initiatives? And when he refers to the State – is the State's assessment a local assessment independent of the government's centralisation tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1017	This is not about centralisation. It's about the opposite, that's to enable the municipalities to deliver good services to their inhabitants. I feel that the Centre Party is more concerned with the structure of the municipalities than with the services of the municipalities. I think that's very unfortunate. We can't stick our heads in the sand and ignore that as a society we're going to face some major challenges in the years to come. The question then is, is the structure well suited to meet these challenges? My answer to that will be no. It's not just based on my own reflections about this, it's also based on just local input, including. from the State, as you might say, well know the local conditions. The County Council made its recommendation in 2016, and it is clear. But I hear no response from the Central Party on how they thought the municipalities would meet challenges in the future, other than that everything should be the way it was before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1022	There is no doubt that, as a central party, I am quite concerned about enabling the municipalities to provide good services to the citizens, but unlike the Council of State, it is obvious to me that there are far more instruments than the municipal structure that need to be put in place to ensure that. As we look at the relocation and birth rates of North Norway and Sogn and Fjordane, for example, which are in the news today, national policies have everything to say. For example, if the Council of State thinks that housing and working areas should be merged, it believes that: The councillor that Lillehammer shall devour the neighbouring municipalities of Øyer and Gausdal, or shall Gjøvik join together with Gran and Søndre and Nordre Land? And what about the Valdres municipalities of Vang, West Slider, South Aurdal and Etnedal, which all have under 3,000 inhabitants? Will the Council of State merge these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1027	As I have said repeatedly – that is why it should be unnecessary to respond to it once more – community reunification will be based on volunteering. So I'm not the one that's merging municipalities, but municipalities that want to merge themselves. I believe that municipalities should assess whether the structure they have is appropriate to meet the challenges ahead. So the name of the representative is Gjøvik. I just made a border adjustment between Vestre Toten and Gjøvik municipalities. There the municipal border went through a building in Raufoss Industripark. These are areas that grow together and where the inhabitants do not relate to the municipal border because it is a coherent housing and labour market. I believe, regardless of that border adjustment, that the municipalities of the Gjøvik region should look at the possibilities of merging. It has to be up to them, but it makes sense on behalf of the inhabitants that they do it, because this has grown together into one area already.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1037	‘On 21 February, the Council of State in the Address Paper wrote that the municipal reform must continue. He believes, among other things, that the challenge facing local authorities is great because climate change is to be limited and sustainability targets are to be met. He writes: "120 municipalities have fewer than 3000 inhabitants. For many of them, the challenges are not a future scenario. It is a reality.» In what way do small municipalities prevent tackling the climate challenges, and how does the Council of State think that community mergers will save the climate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1044	I'm not saying that community reunification will save the climate. What I'm saying is that we have good evidence that many small municipalities have challenges in having sufficient capacity and competence to solve all the challenges they face. I have previously mentioned the documentation to the statesmen who are in the 2016 recommendations. Last year, telemark research conducted a study on how municipalities with less than 3,000 inhabitants play a role as a generalist municipality. The report shows that the smallest municipalities already have small and vulnerable organisations. Therefore, these municipalities do not have sufficient capacity and competence to operate the development of services in line with expectations and legal requirements of national authorities. Many municipalities lack up-to-date planning, which is both required by law and a prerequisite for good social development. For small municipalities it will be important, in my view, to pursue active and good social planning in order to achieve good social development. The report of Telemark research also has a survey of consultants in these municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants, and they say that they do not have sufficient competence for community and spatial planning. And the jobs are not considered attractive enough. The positions in these fields are allocated to a wide range of tasks and responsibilities, and if they are able to recruit, it is often the newly trained person who does not remain in the position for a long time. I think we should have municipalities that have an administration that has enough capacity and competence to deal with current and future challenges, inter alia. climate, preparedness and environment. We know that several of the small municipalities do not have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1053	That was a lot of nice words. That's often the way we talk about climate, that we take something that's the most basic thing we have, that's nature and how we use it, and make it a big question about plan, construction works, competence environments and a lot of good things. But it was the council that even brought the climate into the discussion through its chronicles, so if you're going to look at what actually matters to the climate and the environment in a municipality, it might be transport. If you have bigger municipalities, it could mean that people have to drive more, and that's probably not very good. The central party believes that the municipal structure is important, because if you combine municipalities, the services will often also be centralised, and it is not very good that you have centralised services, because then people have to drive more to get to the services. Is the Council concerned that increased transport needs would be negative if we were to support a large-scale community merger, i.e. in the context of climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1058	There is no natural law that says that a larger municipality has an increased transport demand. But the logical thing is that a larger municipality can easily have a more coordinated land policy, which can help to actually reduce transport needs over time. But there is no doubt that solving the climate challenges is also going to require that we have good competence in the municipalities of the country, and there is no doubt that many small municipalities already have problems attracting enough skills. I am concerned that the municipalities should be attractive, and that a basis should be laid for them to be attractive, and not least a basis for more people who may have left the municipality to study, looking attractive to move home because there are strong, good professional environments within the municipality that can offer two good jobs to a family that wants to establish themselves. I notice that several Central Party politicians around the country also see this point, but here at Stortinget, the Center Party does not seem to recognize this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1063	The Council of State points out that coordinated land policy is important in order to limit climate change and that this is an argument for community convergence. But if you look at what it's actually talking about here: it's small municipalities, which can be so small that it's less than 3,000 inhabitants. Then it's about municipalities where people live quite spread, there could be people with just a few hundred people, or maybe a few dozen. It is not those who are a threat to climate change. It is not that faulty spatial planning in our smallest municipalities is a threat to the climate, I believe. The only thing I can imagine you could achieve, it had to be – if you have an explicit goal about it – that you want to centralize people so that they live more closely, in the center, and don't live spread. It's the only thing that will make a positive contribution to the climate, if you're going to base the Council of State's argument. So my question is, is it a goal for the Council of State that people should move to central areas, that it should be a measure of spatial planning? Then you want to depopulate the villages.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1070	Firstly, climate change is about more than reducing greenhouse gas emissions, it is also about climate adaptation, and there is no doubt that many small municipalities will face major challenges with climate change in the future. It will require considerable competence to adapt to climate change and prepare for what is coming. It is also the case that half of the municipalities in the country state that lack of competence is a major challenge. In the smallest municipalities, this challenge is the greatest. If we're talking about climate, or if we're talking about other important disciplines, it's important that the municipalities are able to provide good services to their citizens. I hear no answer from the Central Party on how the municipalities will deal with the challenges they face in the future, other than turning the clock back and looking back. That is not the answer for the future. We need to look forward. If we are to maintain the qualities of society that we all appreciate, we must be willing to change. It's also at the heart of how we're going to solve these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1080	«In articles in the Address Paper on 21 February, the Council of State wrote that there are still too many small municipalities and points specifically to municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants. South of Trøndelag, the municipalities of Osen, Rennebu, Holtålen, Tidal and Rindal have fewer than 3000 inhabitants. Does the Council of State mean that these municipalities must join one or more neighbouring municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1087	First, I would like to say that it is positive that regional newspapers are read by representatives from all over the country. It's really honor to the Address Paper for them to reach everyone. That being said, it is not so strange that it reaches the representative, Mr. Greni, but she is obviously not alone in the Central Party to have read the Address Paper. As I have pointed out in previous answers today, we have many small municipalities in Norway, and this government believes that community reunification is the best solution for small and vulnerable municipalities to be better equipped to deal with today's and tomorrow's challenges. In order to repeat it, in the event that Mr. Greni did not get it, further work on changes in the municipal structure is based on volunteering and local processes. The County of Southern Trondelag wrote in its recommendation in the autumn of 2016 that Osen, Rennebu, Holtålen, Tidal and Rindal should join one or more of their neighbouring municipalities in the long term. Also in this case, the County Council's recommendation can be a good starting point for local discussions. The discussion about the municipality has the necessary prerequisites for addressing current and future challenges, should be taken into account in the individual local government and, as I have pointed out earlier, in the planning processes. I know that the Center Party is concerned about the loss of proximity and local democracy in the municipalities. I have a great deal of understanding and respect for the fact that changing municipal boundaries creates commitment and feelings. The municipalities that have now been through a merger have worked actively to maintain local democracy. In several places it is time to create more local selections than local authorities in the old municipalities. In all the new municipalities, I feel that attention is being paid to the fact that the local services are to be good in all parts of the new municipality and that participation schemes are being developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1100	After listening to the questionnaire, one would almost believe that the Council of State has not realised that there has been a municipal reform, that all municipalities under 3000 inhabitants have taken the next talk, and that they have made the adjustments that have given clear answers that bundling will provide poorer services to the population. That is why the local government has said no to aggregation. They were also very familiar with the County Council report before they made that choice. Of course, the centre party is not opposed to voluntary community mergers, where the initiative comes from below. The fact that small municipalities are doing well is at best naive, said the Council of State in its contribution. In the Holtålen, which is my municipality of residence, there has been an investigation and a population survey. The local government said no, against one vote. It was also a referendum there 80 pst. said a clear no to a community merger. The Council of State believes that 80 pst. by the hollows are very naive?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1109	I believe it is important that the municipalities are able to provide good services. I believe that the citizens of the whole country are more concerned that the services they receive are of good quality, and that they get them when they need them, than what the municipality is called and where the town hall is. That's what matters when everything comes to it. It is also worth listening to some of the Center Party's own in this matter, for example. Ivar Vigdenes, who said it very well to the NRK in 2016: ‘We must be constantly looking for ways to improve municipal services, and I am absolutely sure that a merger would achieve that for us.’ Does the representative, Mr Greni, disagree with the rapporteur, Mr Vigdenes, in his comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1121	I guess I was going to ask the questions, but I very much agree that a large municipality will gain benefits, and that the neighbouring municipalities will have great disadvantages with it. So that's where we fully agree with the Vigdenes. He is the rapporteur in a large municipality who wanted to keep the municipality house. To something else: Victor Norman is appointed chairman of the government-appointed demographic committee. Their mission is to get us to know how the wave of old age will affect District Norway. He has commented on this in several ways. He has said, on questions about how to meet the wave of older people, that the less each municipality is, the better – I repeat: better – the municipality has assumptions to get a good offer that fits the context in which they are. They have greater adaptability, they're more solution-oriented, they have a better interaction with volunteering and the relatives. This will not be achieved by larger municipalities to the same extent, and the ageing wave will be a major challenge for urban communities. Can the Councils comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1130	The fact that there are more and more older people is basically a positive thing. That means people live longer. At the same time, it means that there are fewer people in working life who need to provide more and more people who do not work. It also means that the fight for skills is growing, because fewer people need to meet greater needs, especially in the health and care sector in the future. This means that for both the city and the country as a whole, demographic development will be of great importance in the future and will be a challenge for many to deal with. I think that the demographic trend, especially in many of the smallest municipalities in the districts, is important that we contribute to these municipalities becoming attractive to immigrants and can facilitate new activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1140	«In a chronicle in the Address Paper, the Council of State pointed out that there are still too many small municipalities and that 120 municipalities still have less than 3000 inhabitants. Previous rounds of municipal merger have met with great resistance in Telemark. The municipalities of Siljan, Hjartdal, Seljord, Witteseid, Nissedal, Fyresdal and Tokke have fewer than 3,000 inhabitants. Which of these municipalities thinks the Council of State should be merged?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1147	It is up to the municipalities themselves to decide whether they want to join each other or not. As I have said before, I believe that all smaller municipalities, and also larger municipalities that are part of a coherent housing and labour market, should regularly assess whether they have a municipal structure that is suitable for meeting the challenges they will face and that can help them to provide good services to their citizens in the future. I think I'm going to give up on it to avoid repeating myself too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1154	Thanks for the answer. I think it's okay to repeat yourself, at least instead of hustling at the Central Party asking questions about this, when we've got a minister with clear statements in this area. To Telemark: One of the proposals that really raised a lot of resistance in the previous municipal merger round was to merge the whole of West Telemark. There's already very well-functioning intercommunal cooperation, not least in child protection, that I know well, but it's huge distances. Of the six municipalities, for example: only wine municipality much larger than Vestfold. I just wonder what the Council of State thinks about the proposal that has also been raised by his party traps: should you simply start a new process of looking at whether the whole of West-Telemark will be merged into one large municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1163	That's a question you have to consider locally. I believe, as mentioned earlier, that all municipalities should assess at regular intervals whether the municipal structure is suitable to meet the challenges they face. It is clear that intermunicipal cooperation is a way of trying to address some of the challenges, but it also contributes to shifting power from the local government to the management board, and it is demanding for the intercommunal companies to deal with the ownership structure of many of them. As Ivar Vigdenes said to the NRK in 2016: «As the manager responsible for an intercommunal enterprise, you become a little paralysed when you have to go for a round with five other municipalities before you can make a decision.» It's clear that there's not justends of inter-municipal cooperation. For example: Hallingdal, as I get questions about later from the representative Lundtigen, I think there is 30 intercommunal cooperation between the six municipalities. Too many people, it's starting to become a little bit of an unmanageable size.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1175	Thanks for the answer. Intermunicipal cooperation often works well. There are also other types of cooperation across local borders that enable the different municipalities to carry out the services they will have. I think it is funny and interesting – even though we in the Central Party read the Address Paper – that the Minister reads all the statements made by the rapporteur, Mr Vigdene. Then we're all concerned with Trøndelag, and so in the Address Paper, the Council of State wrote this about the need to continue the municipal reform in order to get a coherent, good labour market in cities. In Telemark, the attempt at municipal mergers fell on the previous crossroads of the municipalities of Skien, Porsgrund, Bamble and Siljan, although to a large extent they are already a large, coherent housing and labour market region. Shall we take that debate again? Does the Council of State think it would be a good idea for these Grenlands municipalities to sit down again at the negotiating table?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1182	As I said, I believe that municipalities need to assess this on a regular basis, and that is an absolute basis for the merger of several municipalities that currently constitute coherent housing and labour markets in the years to come. Norway is a country that is managed in many ways, but I think we could make better solutions for the inhabitants of coherent housing and labour markets if you, for example, were to: had merged into one unit with coordinated planning. So yes, it should be assessed at regular intervals, and I have faith that local politicians are going to do it. When I refer to the representatives of the Vigdenes and other Central Party politicians, it's because I'm busy listening to local politicians around the country, and not just those sitting on the Stortinget in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1193	‘The Council of State wrote in the Address Paper on 21 February 2020 that, in order to obtain a coherent urban and labour market area, local reform must continue and that ‘120 municipalities have fewer than 3000 inhabitants. For many of them, the challenges are not a future scenario. It is a reality.» What municipalities in the Grand Election District of Sogn and Fjordane my Council of State that should be merged?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1200	Let me first say that I have a heart beating for Sogn and Fjordane. I've been far from related to the county, and had the joy of being present during the opening of the film about the artist Nikolai Astrup in the fall. Then, of course, I was in Jölster and spoke with the rapporteur in Jölster, who comes from the Central Party. Now Jölster is part of a new large municipality. The rapporteur's initial scepticism was enough there, but now I feel at least that he is going into this with life and light, because he sees that the result for the inhabitants is going to be good, but also that Jölster is still going to be Jölster even though they are now part of the Sunnfjord municipality. So to the question – about which municipalities in the Sogn and Fjordane major elections district that I think should be merged. Then I would like to refer a little from the recommendation from the County of Sogn and Fjordane at the time, which assessed the situation as follows: Many of our municipalities will face challenges in securing good and equivalent services for the long term. We believe that a wider trade union environment will provide greater space for action and better conditions for better services to citizens and businesses. The same applies to planning and development tasks. Furthermore, the State also highlighted: The new regional planning strategy for Sogn and Fjordane also points to the need for regional enlargement and stronger centres to curb relocation and create greater attractiveness for relocation. A long-term development towards larger regional municipalities will support this objective. I am also of the opinion that larger municipalities will be more attractive to residents and businesses, and with greater attractiveness it will also facilitate growth in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1215	I thank you for your answer. It's interesting and perhaps a little eye-catching that the Council of State is more busy listening to a state bureaucrat in a Leikanger office than listening to the populace from Sogn and Fjordane and other states of Stortinget. He has now expressed this – that those who sit here on the Grand Council are not so important, but local peoples, and therefore a bureaucrat on Leikanger, are important. So it is interesting that he mentions the spokesman in Jölster, because at the county meeting this weekend he said something completely different to me. Then he said that in a radio debate in 2015 he promised that Jölster would keep the transfers you had before the merger, in a new big municipality, but they have not. It was exordinators Klakegg very dissatisfied with, and it's also the other spokespersons before the merger very dissatisfied with. Can the Council of State tell them why they have not retained the funds that they were promised in the NRK Sogn and Fjordane's radio debate, and what would he possibly do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1226	I am committed to listening to local politicians, and I am very pleased with the constructive role played by the Centre Party in the regional reform in Sogn and Fjordane and Westland, where Jenny Følling was an active driver on the part of the Centre Party. Of course, we appreciate that kind of commitment. When I spoke to the former rapporteur in Jölster, he did not mention this matter to me. Now it is clear that I was there in my capacity as Minister of Digitalisation – or really a distant relative of the artist – but we talked a lot about the merger of municipalities and the future of the new big municipality, and this did not come up in his conversation with me. I do not know the circumstances surrounding what was said and not said in 2015, so I should perhaps be allowed to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1233	Governments have asked several representatives what the Center Party will do. I can tell you what the Center Party did when we were in government. We created a new income system that benefited all the municipalities, including the smaller municipalities. It has destroyed this government, so that the income of the smaller municipalities is ruined. We had municipal food funds, because when one had much more regional development funds, the municipalities got food to build jobs. We had an active district policy for the smaller municipalities, and we stabilized the population – now the population of the districts is raging downwards. But to be quite concrete: Kinn municipality was supposed to be the great rescue for the coast of Sogn and Fjordane. One should be rich and get a lot of resources and more tasks. Now is the fasit: No new tasks, they've lost Bridge, 16 million. kr less in income, they fear the employer’s fees after 2021, and the costs of operating the municipality have increased dramatically because of all the travel costs they have now received. Is the Council of State saying that this is a successful municipal merger in the municipality of Kinn?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1240	I think it is necessary to continue the municipal reform, and then I think it is too early to pass judgment on municipal mergers that have just entered into force. That there is a need for larger and stronger professional environments that make the municipality better able to solve the problems and are also more attractive for relocation, I think it's the way to go. And I'm not alone in that perception, fortunately. With regard to the Central Party's regional policy, it is clear that where we want to invest in building the country by facilitating good roads, competitive tax conditions that make it attractive to invest in research and development, the Centre Party has had a different approach – there is no doubt. But when we see the result now, with record low unemployment in all districts and good growth in the economy, new activity, I think the judgment of our policies is quite good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1250	I just need to make it clear in the introduction that the questioner is also a local public authority when he does not act as a wholesaler. So the Council of State now gets a question from one that also serves as a spokesman in the district. The Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation made a clear statement in the Address Paper: «There are still too many small municipalities». ‘The compulsory reform of the municipalities in this country should continue clearly under this government. After an enormous use of resources to merge municipalities, the Council of State of the Address Paper in February states that the municipal reform has not been completed. Did the government party warn their respective spokesmen in Tysnes, Fitjar, Fedje and Masfjorden to start a merger process with their neighbouring municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1259	Unlike the representative, I believe that the sense is evenly distributed in this country, so I do not have to tell the rapporteurs from the Right what to do. They can decide for themselves whether or not they want to talk to their neighbouring municipalities. Then I'm a little surprised that the Center Party is as structural conservative as they turn out to be here. The most important thing must be that municipalities are able to provide good services, that they are equipped to meet the tasks ahead. But it seems to be completely absent from the Center Party's argument in this case. They're most busy looking back. You can wonder if the Center Party really is for a municipal map that looks like what we had before 1965 – now I don't remember the exact number of municipalities that were then, but it might be the president, it was at least over 700 – because small is good and everything was better before. But it was a different time, for example. Aurland had no road connection until Oslo Lysverker built Hol-Aurland in 1967. That's when the municipal structure from before 1965 was adapted. Now we're in a digitalized society that's just going to shoot speed on the technology front, giving completely new opportunities to solve these problems in new and better ways. The interest in how to use new technologies to deliver better services to the population, to better solve the problems, to extend the money, to provide greater security to the community and to create greater attractiveness has been completely absent from the Centre Party. The year I was a Minister of Digitalisation, I had at least no questions about it at all. I think we need to show a lot more interest in how we can help municipalities drive innovation that makes them attractive and can provide even better services, and then the debate on municipal structure cannot be what's at stake. We need to structure this in an appropriate way, but the structure itself cannot be an objective. I have a very pragmatic relationship with how to organise the municipal map. I have no goal for the municipality map to change it. However, the point is that Norway has changed, and that means that we politicians, too, must keep up with the changes and change the structure as time has changed. Just to answer the question, it is up to the individual local authority to decide whether they want to join municipal mergers in their area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1272	I record that the state councils set out a voluntary line, and the voluntary line was really tried in the municipalities not so long ago, when all municipalities in this country with Right in the head – Right with Prime Minister and Government – were forced into a municipal structure debate. In order to take the municipality of Tysne, which is one of the municipalities in the target group of the state council, which is too small, i.e. under 3,000 inhabitants: In 2016, the local government of Tysne's case of municipal reform ended up wanting to continue as they are today. What has changed, and what, if any, are the means by which the State Councils will implement the inclusion of the municipality of Tysne in the list of merits of merged municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1279	All the financial incentives that led to the municipal mergers we've had so far continue. There is an economic incentive both to investigate and to merge municipalities into larger units. Then it has to be up to the individual local government to decide if they want to do it. When it comes to the question of what has changed, I think it's time to work anyhow that there are larger units because the municipalities already notice that it's demanding to solve the problems on the basis that they have. The councillors gave a very clear advice to me in January, where they also said that the municipal reform must continue. It is clear that they are aware of the responsibility, that they are required to provide statutory services which, in many places, are not fully capable of doing. I think we'll take that into account in this room as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1286	I choose to listen to the elected representatives and the local government who make decisions. In this way, it is also the responsibility of the advisers. That being said, Tysne's municipality is just, despite the size and not least the number of inhabitants, a municipality with particularly good results and a good financial balance. For example, they are better off with key figures at the SSB than most other municipalities in the country. The municipalities of Tysne will face major challenges in connecting to a common bus and labour market because, for example: depend on ferry to get to and from e.g. town hall on Stord. So it's very clear that you don't have to generalise municipalities and state that all municipalities with less than 3,000 inhabitants have to join someone, as the Council of State does in the play of the Address Paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1291	I have not said that all municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants will merge, but I have said that we have 120 municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants. So I have said that many municipalities are too small, and that many municipalities are struggling to attract skills in order to solve their problems in a good way. Earlier this week I read the last edition of the Municipal Report. It said that in Berlevåg you could report that you have announced the position as a growth manager three times without anyone having missed. This illustrates the challenge faced by many small municipalities. Community aggregation is not the answer to everything, but being dogmatic against community aggregation in the situation we're in, at least that's not the answer. Here we have to be pragmatic and make sure that we organize ourselves in such a way that we achieve the goals that we are all committed to achieving, namely, good services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1302	‘The Council of State has stated that the municipal reform must continue and that many municipalities are still too small. The six municipalities in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen have previously carried out thorough investigations that resulted in a referendum, and it ended up that the municipalities were not merged. Among these are municipalities that score high on KS’s municipal barometer, especially Lom and Dovre. At the same time, these municipalities have fewer than 3000 inhabitants. Do the councils of these municipalities not believe that they have the right to life and should initiate new studies on aggregation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1309	One thing is what I mean – another thing is what they mean. I would like to show that Dovre was one of the municipalities that decided in 2016 on their desire to merge with their neighbouring municipality Lesja. In a referendum, a majority of the population said yes to aggregation. I am pleased that the municipality is doing a good job on the KS municipal barometer. However, it does not have to mean that they do not want challenges in the future. So I know that there is now a new local government in Dovre, but I feel quite certain that the challenges that led to the decision in Dovre, and the 2016 intention agreement, are not completely gone. The population is also largely the same as in 2016. In the case of Lom, the then local government decided that they did not agree to merge with Skåk, but that they were at the same time positive to new assessments of the change in municipal structure. Here too, of course, there have been local elections, but I believe this can provide a basis for today's local government in Lom to consider taking the matter up to a new discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1318	As the Council of State certainly knows, I was rapporteur in Dovre at that time, and none of the assessments we made had anything to do with whether it was less than 3,000 inhabitants or not. We solved that mission by engaging in a good dialogue with the inhabitants. We made an intentional agreement that was very detailed. We streamed all the people's meetings, and we described a municipality, a decentralised municipality, where many of the tasks that two independent municipalities are doing today were to do. We said we'd listen to the people. In Dovre, there was a majority. In Lesja it wasn't, and we respected it. What's the whole thing is that referendums are going to mean something. Does not the Council of State have respect for referendums, and does the Council of State believe that the decisions of local governments on regional and intermunicipal cooperation are a poor solution for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1323	I am very pleased that the representative and former rapporteur in Dovre had such a proactive approach to the issue of community reunification that he took as rapporteur in Dovre. It is clear that it must be a bit strange for the representative to hear the speeches from his party traps, which are so unequivocally negative to mergers, when he himself was one of the rapporteurs who actually worked for a merger on behalf of his citizens. I think it is good that we have rapporteurs around the country who are not as dogmatic as one can often stay when sitting in Oslo, and that one is concerned about finding good solutions for its citizens locally. So I'm concerned that there was a referendum four years ago, not to prevent you from having new discussions if the challenges persist and the situation changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1330	I want to go back to the Commune Barometer, which I actually started with in my first question. The two municipalities I mentioned, Lom and Dovre, have actually been at the top of the Municipal Barometer – Lom even twice. The barometer addresses 141 key factors in the field of child protection, kindergartens, primary schools, health, cost level, culture, environment, resources care and care, proceedings, social services, water and sewerage, economics — all that has been debated here in the Chamber today. Child protection, kindergartens, primary schools, care, health and economics are weighted 85 pst. Examples of some of the 185 key factors are teacher competence requirements, national test results, vacant flats, child protection treatment periods, operating performance, economic performance, municipal housing, pedagogical staff, costs of administration per capita — ‘you name it’. What should these municipalities do better to ensure that top political leadership is satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1337	As I said, I am very happy that both small and large municipalities are doing well on the KS municipality barometer. I do not believe that the KS municipality survey, which now measures the results of its citizens, is a good indicator of future developments. I think it is good that we have rapporteurs, on whom the representative is an example, who are looking forward to seeing that changes in municipal structure can actually bring positive results, as was the case for Dovre. Then there was no aggregation, but these are questions that I'm sure will come up again as time passes, simply because today's municipal structure is not particularly well suited to over time to solve the tasks that we as society face, and where the municipalities are an important welfare provider.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1347	‘Why is Oslo not part of the Viken when the government defines Hallingdal in former Buskerud and Enningdalen in Eastfold as part of the same residential and labour market area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1352	It has not been an objective of regional reform that the counties should consist of only one housing and labour market area. The aim of the regional reform is to provide a positive social development in all parts of the country based on regional advantages, assumptions and priorities. Oslo, with both municipal and county tasks, is in a special position. Many public investigations and survey reports have pointed to the governance challenges in the Capital Region and, in particular, the challenges of developing a comprehensive land and transport policy for Oslo and Akershus. At the same time, the government believes that Oslo has advantages of being able to see municipal and county tasks in the context. This applies within the training cycle, and in the case of land and transport, where Oslo has an advantage of being responsible for the public transport and territorial authority. In urban areas, it is important that land use, housing, parking and operation and investment in public transport and road are closely linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1357	It is always interesting to hear representatives of the party defend a reform that is really opposed. It gets kind of hollow, and the explanations rarely hang on. Former State Council Sanner was very clear that a merger of Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud was about seeing common housing and labour market regions together, also in view of regional advantage. Then I can inform the Council of State that when we worked with that reform in Østfold, we concluded that it was about. 90 pieces per day as commuted between the labour market regions of Eastfold and Buskerud. The Community is that we meet over the lunch table in Oslo, or when we go to the theatre in Oslo and use the cultural experiences here. The truth, even now, is that the County uses Oslo as the meeting venue. The county uses Oslo as the meeting venue. The question remains: why is Oslo not part of the Viking Empire when it is clearly part of the common regional area?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1364	There is no secret of the primary view of the Right on the reform of the region. However, it is natural for me, as the Council of State, to tell what was the aim of the reform, which the Storting has actually adopted. I really feel that I have answered this question, because it was not an objective in itself that there should be one coherent housing and labour market within one region. If so, the Week is not alone in having more housing and labour markets within the same region. There are a number of the former counties as well as the new regions which have more housing and labour markets, but which nevertheless form part of a larger unit. Then I have already explained why Oslo is in a special position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1371	I hear the council say that Oslo is in a special position in terms of land planning, public transport, road, etc. But it's actually like Oslo's public transport is managed by the company Router, which also has a large share of the route into old Akershus and Viken, and you're absolutely dependent on this being coordinated. The same applies to road and extension projects through Oslo, because the Vikings are constantly moving through here. And in terms of land-use planning, it's like Oslo essiers out, and into Lørenskog, Bærum and Asker. Is it also that the Right does not want to help Oslo merge with these states to get access to these regional advantages, which I do not see as a regional advantage for Oslo? You have chosen to join the County of Oslo and Viken, so you obviously have to see things together, but you don't do it at the political level, and to me it seems a little strange. I wonder why the Council of State does not see the same advantages at county level as he does at county level.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1378	There's a lot of good arguments that Oslo could be part of the Week, but there's also a lot of arguments that it shouldn't be. One of them is that Oslo already has two levels of government in the municipality, that they have both municipal and municipal tasks, and that it would be very difficult to get the City Council to agree that they should give up tasks for which they are currently responsible, among other things. in the field of higher education. Then it is quite clear that there is a need for coordination between Oslo and the Vikings when it comes to land and transport planning. This coordination is already taking place today. There's no doubt about it. There is close interaction between these two counties, and it still has to be in order for transport and land planning to function properly in the future. It is not easy how to solve Oslo structurally in this, and I believe that we have found a solution that is working.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1388	This question is from the representative Geir Adelsten Iversen, and as long as the Council of State writes chronicles in the Address Paper, the question goes to the Minister of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1393	‘In a chronicle in the Address Paper on 21 February 2020, the Council of State refers to a two-year-old girl from Berlevåg who is one of six children in her year-old life in the municipality. The nearest neighbor to Berlevåg is the municipality of Båtsfjord, 90 km away. If the girl went to school in Båtsfjord, this would involve a travel time of approx. one and a half hours each way. Which municipalities do the Council of State Berlevåg think should join in order for the girl to receive a better school offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1400	As I mentioned earlier today, changes in the municipal structure are based on volunteering and local processes in line with the Storting decision of 7 December 2017. The County of Finnmark wrote in its recommendation in the autumn of 2016 that the municipal structure in the county should in the long term consist of five municipalities, where Berlevåg joins six of the neighbouring municipalities of Varangerhalvøya. I am well aware that there are large distances in the county, and it can be a demanding climate in the winter months. But I also take it for granted that the County knows. For this reason, the recommendations of the County Council may also be the starting point for local discussions. Society has changed, and there are heavy trends that are taking place. Urbanisation is taking place worldwide, including in Norway, and this has not been new in recent years. This has led to major challenges for the smallest districts to maintain the population. In addition, ageing is greatest in the smallest districts. These developments also exist in our neighbouring countries, which also discuss solutions to organise public services, so that they are good and accessible to all. Then it is important to say that there are no simple solutions, but I believe that the municipalities must work actively to attract more people and a more varied local business. It is also important to bear in mind that bundling municipalities does not involve the relocation of services. Most local services like schools, hospitals and health centres stay where people live. However, a larger administration with greater capacity to drive the development and innovation of services could lead to a better school both in Berlevåg and the other municipalities in East Finland. My wish is that Mina get more classmates when she starts school in Berlevåg, regardless of the name of the municipality in which she lives. If this is to happen, the municipality must also be able to attract more people who find attractive, exciting and good professional environments, with two jobs that make young families want to live there. It's not a challenge that's solved overnight, but it's definitely something that we have to work with in the future, because we have a desire to live, work and live across the country. But we're not going to force people to live anywhere in this country. We're going to make sure that it's attractive to also live in Berlevåg. So homely is what we have to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1413	Berlevåg school is a school with approx. 90 students, according to Berlevåg's website. Currently, areas of activity are assessment work and accounting in all disciplines. The vision for the school is: «Berlevag school creates good team players for the future». Berlevåg also has a very good LOSSA offer, which means that you have youth in the countryside all the time until high school. Does the council think Berlevåg Municipality should be scrapped?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1418	I mean what I said instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1423	The municipalities in Finnmark have spent a great deal of time working with municipal mergers. The municipalities – at least most of the municipalities, I guess there was one municipality that meant something else – have said that there is no desire to merge. You want development, not liquidation, and you want laws to be followed, so that the fish come back to the coast. Everyone in Finnmark is sorry that state councils tell us that we are not robust enough or big enough. What does it take for the Right and the Government to understand this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1428	My goal is for municipalities like Berlevåg to be attractive, for an attractive community to attract new citizens, and for more citizens to move back home and contribute to building their community. I think that's a goal that the representative and I share. So the question is, how do we get it? Now there is a new project among several municipalities, where Berlevåg is also included, where there is a division of functions between different municipalities rather than a combination of municipalities. I think it's interesting to see what results it can give. But seeing them have to do it – this is a local initiative – is also a sign that we have to notice, because that means that as we work today, it cannot continue. The only people who seem to believe it are the representatives of the Central Party in this room. It's not an alternative. It's just one option, and that's changing. And then the question is, how are we going to change to be attractive in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1438	‘It is liberating when the leaf is removed from the mouth by the right. Right-wing Secretary-General – now State Secretary, John-Ragnar Aarset, said at the Hallingdal Conference on 27 January this year: – The Future Municipality of Hallingdal is the municipality of Hallingdal. Does the Council of State work to realise this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1445	As mentioned, work on municipal structure is to be based on volunteering and local initiatives, and I am aware that there are politicians in Hallingdal who believe that this is a good idea in the long term. It is a debate that I am absolutely sure the politicians in Hallingdal are able to take for themselves and that they will come up with the solutions that they think are best for themselves and their own. Then I had the pleasure of, many, many years ago, visiting the seat of the representative. Then I asked the representative if he had ever considered voting on the right. Then the representative said, "No, until that I'm too conservative." I think the representative was in on a good point there, that he was too conservative for that, because we need to change. My definition of conservatism, I think, differs from that of the representative, because my definition is that we need to change in order to preserve. And what we're going to preserve is the ability of municipalities to provide good welfare services. We have to keep local democracy, decisions close to people, but to make it happen in a society that needs to change, maybe politics also needs to change, and then we have to be willing to look at municipal structure. If local politicians in Hallingdal want to look at the possibility of merging their municipalities into one and becoming a large municipality with 20,000 inhabitants, perhaps with municipal councils, well, then I think it should be possible for them to discuss it. And not only that – maybe it can also provide better solutions for the coordinated land and transport policy in Hallingdal. Just as the rapporteur from the Central Party said that Andebu is still going to be Andebu after they are joined together with Sandefjord and Stokke, Hemsedal will continue to be Hemsedal, Ål continues to be Ål, Gol continues to be Gol and Nesbyen still to be Nesbyen – regardless of which municipality they belong to. But as I said, this is a discussion that I leave to the local politicians in Hallingdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1456	I well remember the visit of the council of state on the setra; it was not in Hallingdal; it was in Numedal. What was the point then, was to learn about photosynthesis, and it didn't go so well. I can assure the Council of State that I am conservative in the sense that I will change to preserve. But what's happening now is that the Right is using the state power to centralize Norway. One uses the state power to change Norway so that Norway does not become Norway, in the sense that it is activity, power and authority throughout the country. The center part is said for change, because it's just dead things, stone and metals, that don't change. The question is how. What has been the Right and, in the past, the Central Party's line on this issue is that the County Municipality was the municipality's cooperative body. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1467	I am a strong supporter of local democracy, therefore I believe that the tasks should be solved close to the inhabitants, and therefore as much as possible in the municipalities. They're the ones who have the shoe on, who know where it's printing, and then the municipalities have to be able to do those problems in a good way. Therefore, it is necessary to look at municipal structure in the years to come. We're not changing Norway. Norway has changed. That means that we also need to have a discussion about how we organize ourselves in order to provide citizens with the services they expect, deserve and have a claim. So, of course, the government is concerned that there should be activity throughout the country. There is, of course, record low unemployment in many of our districts just because we have contributed to facilitating increased activity. This must also be the case in the future, but then you have to be willing to change policies too in order to facilitate activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1476	The problem is that the right does not dare to tell that one wants to change Norway in the sense that one wants to concentrate power, and that one wants to concentrate activity. People get a sense of it and they get a sense of amputation. Those who get over the amputation react with cursing, and they react by using better tools, which in this case is the Center Party. What is now adopted in the Great Britain, against the Right, the Advance Party and the Left's will, is voluntary, and that one should not use the economy to force people. What is then the Central Party's option is that we use the County Municipality to take up the tasks that municipalities are too small to solve. The county must be the co-operative municipality of the municipalities. It's been the previous line on the right. It is an organisational change that preserves municipalities as a basic organisation, providing safe welfare services in the health field, good schools and everything. Why doesn't the Right agree with that line today? They were in 1995.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1483	The right view of the county municipality has not changed that much since 1995. But what's interesting about the answer from the representative is that the Central Party here is calling for more tasks to be moved out of the municipalities, away from people and up to a higher level of government. I think that is perhaps one of the most eye-catching with the answer to the representative Lundtigen. This is – you can say – new tones: that you want to defuse local democracy in the way the representative Lundteigen here speaks of. I'm not of that opinion. I believe that we should ensure that the municipalities are able to solve the tasks that the inhabitants are most concerned about, almost where the inhabitants live, and that they are at municipal level, not at county level. So these were new notes from the Central Party, but absolutely interesting for the further debate. I think a lot of local politicians, not least from the Central Party, will notice that the Central Party here is calling for a large-scale transfer of tasks to the county because the municipalities are too small to solve them. And that the Center Party admits that the municipalities are too small to solve them. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1492	Ordinary brawl from the Council of State!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1500	‘In its debate in the Address Paper on 21 February, the Council of State said that the municipal reform had to continue. Reference is made to the fact that the Storting has decided that local initiatives and voluntary action should be based, but if the local authority structure does not change in line with society over time, other measures should be considered. In the case of southern Greece in the Nordic countries, it was considered that the municipalities of Bindal, Sømna, Brønnøy, Vega and Vevelstad were merged. This will provide a municipality with 13,000 inhabitants. Is this municipality the Council of State believes should be merged?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1507	I agree with the representative Lundtigen that many municipalities have challenges in solving their tasks. So my answer is not to move tasks to the county council, but instead make sure that the municipalities are able to do the problems in a good way. Yes, there will be municipalities also in Northern Ireland that should discuss whether the municipal structure is suitable to meet the challenges of the future. But then, as I've said before, it's a local responsibility to make those assessments, and it has to be based on volunteering. But the County Council's recommendation can be a good starting point for the discussions that municipalities should have at regular intervals, including in the Nordic region. With that, I think I'm going to avoid repeating myself further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1516	In these five municipalities, there are, among other things: five nursing homes. In general, residents and relatives are very satisfied with good care, good time, warm hands, proper food and short lines – that is, good services in practice, which is what the Centre Party believes is most important. Reforms and robust trade unions have so far meant centralisation and larger units, and the Council of State says that there is a need to learn from merged municipalities. But the ending of what's going to be the edges is the experience we've seen so far, even though the statesmen and the Right say the opposite. This has been referred to earlier today. In the same municipalities there are four ferry links, one has six points of call, there are four speedboats, one of which has 14 different points of call. We have to remember that the removal of the municipal border does not change the geography. What does the Council of State think about the closure of e.g. nursing homes will mean for these communities that both parents will be able to use their skills, and what does he think is acceptable travel time for that type of service provision in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1525	The aim of the community reform is to ensure that municipalities are able to provide the citizens with a good offer, and it also includes health care facilities. And then it's not that even if a municipality is large in area, the services are not to be provided where people live. So that's a prerequisite. So the question is, are you still able in a larger unit to attract more expertise, larger and stronger professional environments that can make municipalities even better able to provide services and precisely coordinate land and transport planning in an area in an even better way, to ensure that attractiveness increases, and to be able to maintain housing in the future? I believe yes – that many municipalities should make that assessment, and would like to take as a starting point the County Council’s 2016 assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1532	The fact that few people live in a municipality should not be confused with local politicians, for example. from the Centre Party, not rates of digitisation and welfare technology, which are also mentioned in the post. Of course, state councils know about the Digital Helgeland project, a collaboration between 18 municipalities that do not require aggregation. Then I have to mention my home municipality, where it is completely uninteresting to expand broadband. Now fiber is added to the entire municipality, but it's done on its own. Half of the municipalities in the country have less than 5,000 inhabitants, and they deserve our respect. The fact that some of us from the Center Party don't want to create greater distances in all sorts of ways is not the same thing as looking back longingly. It's also not the same thing as being anxious or dogmatic, as the Council of State likes to call it. What new political action will the Council of State take to ensure growth and positive development where much of the value creation takes place and will take place in the future – in our districts? Finally, I would like to add that low-freedom is due to the fact that there is no movement, especially in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1543	It is gratifying to hear that there is also a focus on digitisation in Helgeland. I think that's going to be very important to contribute to just growth and development in the years to come. Although this is done without merging the municipalities, digitisation efforts are not a barrier to the bundling of municipalities. Now we just heard the representative Lundtigen say that the smallest municipalities might have to move tasks up to the county council. I'm more of a fan of enabling the municipalities to solve the problems near people. Digitisation is also an effort to ensure that services can be provided close to people. It's not going to be any closer than when you get the services on the mobile phone or the PC in the living room. I am sure this debate is not over with. However, the fact that the municipality structure of the Helgeland coast has to be discussed in the years to come, I feel quite convinced that they should be able to provide the services that the inhabitants deserve, expect and have the right to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1559	‘Stavanger/Sandnes and several municipalities around are to a large extent a coherent bus and labour market region. Does the Council of State consider it desirable to merge these municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1566	The representative Pollestad asked me if it would be desirable to merge several of the municipalities in Northern Ireland. Now there have been two major mergers in this area, and I want to praise the municipalities that have been through a merger and built new, strong municipalities. The challenge in this area is to achieve overall and balanced social development through good spatial planning, public transport and industrial development. A survey has been carried out by the county office of Rogaland among elected officials, administrations and trustees. At the base of 60 pst. responds to difficulties in efficient services in multi-municipal urban and residential areas. Near 60 pst. is also of the opinion that, to a very large extent and to a considerable extent, the combination of municipalities will be an action to address these border problems. In a chronicle in Stavanger Aftenblad recently points out the County of Rogaland: ‘The national soil protection strategy points out that changing municipal boundaries will help to strengthen soil protection where several municipalities form part of the same urban and labour market region. Especially because fewer municipalities give a more holistic and coordinated planning. Probably land had been saved in Rogaland with fewer municipalities.» There is now a danger that the presidency – not the President, because the President has just arrived – and at least the representatives are getting tired of me repeating myself. But let me add that with the device that the questions have, it is difficult to avoid repeating itself. Let me therefore state once again, to be quite clear that I am answering the question: The Storting has decided that the municipal merger during this large-scale period should be based on local initiatives and local decisions, and this is of course the basis of the government. Then I'm pretty sure that in the case of Northern Ireland, the time for several municipal mergers is working – simply because both business and residents see that the municipal structure is not appropriate over time, and that it will be more effective to organise the municipalities differently. But this is a discussion that I feel pretty sure you're going to take locally in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1582	Interestingly, the Council of State is taking County as a revenue for its vision, all the time when the County is the Council of State and the Government is its representative in the county. There's something wonderfully democratic about this kind of truth witness. But my question really goes more at a basic level: Is it that the government and the Council of State think, from a principle point of view, that when there is a common bus and labour market area, there should also be one municipality, or can a bus and labour market area be divided into several municipalities? That's what I want to get an answer to with my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1589	The question is whether one housing and labour market can be divided into several municipalities, and the answer is yes. We have a lot of that, so it's quite obvious that it's possible. The question is: Is it more efficient and better for both residents and businesses to consider aggregations in what are already coherent housing and labour markets? I believe the answer to that is yes. But I think this is probably going to continue to discuss in Rogaland in the years that are coming, because even if you've had two big contractions, it's not going to solve all the challenges that the region has. I feel quite convinced that there are many residential and labour market areas in Norway that could have assessed aggregation to the benefit of the population and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1596	In Rogaland and North Jären, there are almost two groups that are interested in municipal mergers. They are right-wing politicians and they are the government's local representatives in the county, that is, the county's representatives. But based on what has been said before, this is a question. In Sandnes, for example, we wonder whether the government will sit still or whether there will be new initiatives. Governments have repeatedly said that it should be based on voluntary and local initiatives. Then my question is: can local politicians and citizens in e.g. Sandnes is confident that no new initiatives will be launched by the government or by the State to impose processes, conversations or pressures with the aim of contributing to municipal convergence – that they should actually be voluntary and based on local initiatives? Is it possible, then, that there will be initiatives from central authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1605	This is the fifteenth question I answer about the same thing, and in all my fifteen answers, I have stressed that it is the government's policy to follow the decision of December 2017, which says that mergers should be based on local initiative and volunteering. That is why I feel in many ways that I have answered the question. It is clear that sometimes things have to be done with tweezers, but I think the representative Pollestad has got the answer to the question. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1610	Pinsett or not – we now move on to the next question, from the representative Nicholas Wilkinson to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1618	‘Person traffic on the northernmost part of the Main Line, the Dal-Eidsvoll route, was closed in 2004. From then on, the population and an overall political environment in Upper Rome have fought to re-establish passenger traffic and thus put in place the fastest and most environmentally friendly link between Eidsvoll and Jessheim. The rails are there, but repairs are needed at Eidsvoll station. SV has previously asked written questions about the matter. Will the Council of State take the initiative in finding a solution to this matter and ensure that the question of resumption of passenger services on the Dal-Eidsvoll route is included in the KVU?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1625	As the representative Wilkinson here clearly says: SV has raised the same and important issue in a written question in the autumn of 2018. In the reply of the then Minister for Transport, Jon Georg Dale, it was called: ‘It is currently not possible to extend the Dal train to Eidsvoll because there is insufficient capacity to reverse the train at Eidsvoll station. Turning the train there would lead to reduced capacity for running freight trains because they cannot cross Eidsvoll, either at the new or old station, when standing passenger train material to the platform.’ So that was the answer from Dale in 2018. The rolling stock at Eidsvoll station is unchanged from 2018 until now. This means that there are no train tracks available with a platform at Eidsvoll station that can handle an extension of Dal-Eidsvoll without any significant restrictions on freight traffic on Dovrebanen. As of today, the Dal-Eidsvoll section is therefore lit by bus route 430 Jessheim-Eidsvoll. It is also important to note that by 2024 double-track work will be carried out on the Venjar-Langslet route, including Eidsvoll station. During the construction period Eidsvoll station will be closed for periods, which in any case requires alternative transport. The representative also refers to the ongoing work on the concept currency exchange, KVU, of the Main Railway Nord, Lillestrøm-Eidsvoll. The assignment is an order from the Ministry of Transport of the Directorate-General for Railways and must be the basis for assessing whether and when action on the Northern Main Railway is necessary or whether there may be other measures to address the needs of society. In connection with the KVU work, an assessment of the pendulum extension from Dal to Eidsvoll will be carried out, in line with the representative's wishes. So in that KVU, a pendulum extension will be considered, which will be important for what we can do with this distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1637	All the games at Eidsvoll will have the passenger traffic on the route between Dal and Eidsvoll. I am a little disappointed, since the head of the Transport and Communications Committee, Helge Orten from the Right, said in August 2019 that the government was conducting an investigation on trains between Dal and Eidsvoll. Was it optional bottle, or is there an investigation of the passenger traffic on the route between Dal and Eidsvoll? If there's an investigation, when will it come?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1642	So now we have a KVU going on. That is to say, we are now making a statement about a pendulum extension as a requirement for us to also have passenger traffic on this route. That is why I feel that with the answer I give here today, I come to the meeting that I experience is the representative Wilkinson's wish here. If we are going to have passenger traffic, we need to know if a pendulum extension is possible. So I'm asking in that KVU. I can also say that the Railway Directorate will arrange a new workshop for stakeholders on 24 March, where the possibility study and concept selection are the subject. So we have a click on real terms, but we're not going to do this if we can't do that study, and that's part of the KVU that we're now working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1649	People at Eidsvoll use cars a lot, because it takes 50 minutes between Dal and Eidsvoll every way if they use buses. The train from Dal to Eidsvoll will take 10 minutes. I understand that it is difficult for people to lose 80 minutes every day when the train does not go. SV is constantly working to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Then people in Eidsvoll should get the government on board and get trains between Dal and Eidsvoll. Will the government have the passenger traffic on the route between Dal and Eidsvoll? We're waiting for the investigation, but does the government want it, or are we going to postpone the matter again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1654	I share the disgust representative Wilkinson has in this matter. Then we have to do that first, and just to be able to reverse the train is an assessment that we are now doing in the KVU. That assessment must come first. I don't want to answer that until I have that assessment, but what I can say here at Stortinget is that in order for one to turn the train, we have to do a pendulum extension. It's part of the assessment that's now happening in the KVU. When we have that KVU, we have to decide what we do. If this is the case, it may allow for passenger traffic on the Dal–Eidsvoll route, but I can only give that answer when we have the KVU.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1662	‘In the debate on taxi industries at Stortinget on 25 February, the Council of State stated: ‘... it is a challenge in the transport sector that we have had an increase in directorial positions. That means I'm an udder. This trend and trend must be reversed, even when it relates to salary levels. On 19 June last year, the NRK revealed that the number of directors of the railway companies has almost fivefold, from 11 to 49, and that the six top managers serve an average of 3.2 million. krones. What will the Council of State do with this omission, which is a direct consequence of the policies of its predecessors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1669	Let me stress that I mean the state not to be the wage leader in the wage development, but to show a wise and moderate line on this issue. I would also like to stress that I think it is important that the state be able to recruit good leaders in our companies, leaders who are to inspire, motivate and carry out important tasks for the development of society in Norway. Wages and salaries should not be the only motivation for that kind of leadership job, in which case it is not the right person for this type of important leadership job. It seems to me that some lease payments have been challenging for just re-emphasizing the sector, the sector that I am now looking at renting. The new organisation of the railway sector is a reindeer of responsibility and of the various tasks to be done in the railway sector, so that those who are best placed to do so are actually the ones who work with them. On the one hand, this means that the number of operators in the sector has increased. On the other hand, the new organisation in the sector contributes to increasing openness about which actors are responsible for what tasks. This means a greater openness around the level of leadership by making more explicit the organisational chart in the new activities, which was previously integrated into the major activities of the Railway Agency and the daring NSB AS. As owners, the Ministry follows up the organization and resource management of companies, and it is our job to challenge whether the resources of the company are being used as efficiently and efficiently as possible. When it comes to determining the remuneration of the lessee, this is the responsibility of the board of directors. However, owners have clear expectations of the Board’s work in the area of rents – it applies to the setting of salaries for the tenants and is expressed, among other things. in the country’s guidelines on remuneration and other evidence for the appointment of a lessor. Governments' authority in the companies in the transport sector is exercised by the General Assembly, where I, among other things, is responsible for examining the Board’s remuneration statement. In this context, I am busy that the board is open about how the fixing and adjustment of evidence has been designed to ensure that it is competitive, but not wage-leaving, and how the care of moderation is handled. There's something I'm raising at the general meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1680	At the end of the debate on Norwegian taxi industry, I think the Council of State Hareide began to say what he really felt in the heart, when he said that he thought it was a clue that the number of directors in the railway sector had exploded. To take the old NSB, which had 11 directors: now that you've split up the company, there are 49, from 11 to 49 directors only in the split-up of NSB to Vy. We have the Railway Agency, which has been split up to Bane NOR and the Directorate of Railways, and I saw in a news article that there were ten communications managers only in Bane NOR, that is, a violent explosion. The average salary among the 49 – from NSB to Vy – was 3.2 million. kr, i.e. a heavy salary, a double salary from the Council of State. And the council then said it was a udder. Will the council do anything, or will he just talk and let it happen? If he thinks it's a udder, he has to get the number of directors down and get the pay down. What action will Hareide take in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1687	I'm very clear and say we should have moderation. The state should not be a payroll leader. I mean, naturally, when one gets more companies, one also gets more leaders. It's a natural development. But I'm busy with just moderation, and that evolution should be moderate. Then I say that it's my intention to bring this up at the general meeting, that's my tool – just when it's about the renter's wages. That's my lead, and it's my tool in this case to bring this up at the general meeting. That's what I also said in my answer. There is a reason, and it is my intention to address this when I come to the General Assembly. I challenge the director of the board, who is responsible for the salary of the company's rent, and just say that moderation must be taken care of when the rent discussion comes to the general meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1692	We read earlier this winter about Wenche Bye, who until now is a cleaner on the Nordlandsbanen, and who loses his job because of competitive outsourcing. We know that those who are conductors on the train have had a worse pension, that cleaners in general have had a worse pension, and that those who do the practical job have had a more demanding working day. In the middle of this, we see a director-bonanza. We need to get the number of directors down. We have also seen that the salary level has exploded after the railway reform that the Christian People's Party was with and supported. Does the Council of State Hareide think it has been a good consequence of the rail reform that the director's wages have been going on, and that there have been many more directors, while those who actually do the job lose retirement and get a more demanding working day? And the Council of State will dry up in the General Assembly to really rule, to oblige the board to bring down the number of directors, and to say that it is voluntary to work as Director of Norwegian Railways, and that pay is going down, right?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1697	As a general meeting, I can give leadership in terms of salary, and I say clearly here that I want moderation. The state shouldn't be a leader on a payroll, and I say that very clearly. Then, naturally, I won't go and say something about the number of directors, also because when we've split up, it also leads to some more leaders. The competition we have seen has now cost us a lot. But yes, I'll follow up moderation. I mean, as I also said, that a development that has been challenging for the sector's reputation, I've got it under way, and I'll deal with that when I come to the General Assembly. That's the neat way for me to do it, and then I'm expecting moderation in this sector in the future when it's on the payroll.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1705	‘The power companies behind NorthConnect claim that the cable will result in a CO 2 reduction of 2 million tonnes per year. Others claim that NorthConnect will increase CO 2 emissions by two million tonnes per year, given that the same amount of electricity had instead been exported to the continent, where the CO 2 content of the electricity mix is twice that of the United Kingdom. What is the view on the CO 2 effect of NorthConnect that the Council of States is right?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1724	I share the representative of Moxnes' commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. That's why I'm a little surprised that Red's position is saying no to all the new power cables. Power cables from Norway to our neighbouring countries strengthen our security of supply and help replace fossil energy with clean, renewable electricity. It is an important contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and clear climate targets both in Norway and in Europe. NorthConnect is not an exception in that context. Nevertheless, it is a bit difficult to quantify the climate effect of a single cable, which, after all, is only part of a large and complex system. The European mains power grid is still evolving as a result of changes in power generation. I also believe that the numbering of the climate effect of a single cable is of limited interest, precisely in view of the energy conversion reductions as a whole. NorthConnect is now in the oil and energy department. I have noticed that there are several views on how the reduction of CO 2 emissions is to be assessed for actions in the power sector. Common to all of them is that they are associated with considerable uncertainty and that they depend on the assumptions taken into account. One way to estimate the CO 2 effect is to use modelling. In this context, fundamental conditions such as demand, supply, support schemes and policies must be made in the run-up to today and decades to come. A different approach could be to assess the CO 2 effect taking into account the allowance market in Europe. The quota market places an overall ceiling on emissions in the quota sector, including the power sector. The EU has introduced a quota market deletion mechanism and measures can therefore under certain conditions have a positive impact on policy makers’ ability to lower the quota ceiling. For me, there is no doubt that increased power exchanges are positive for Europe's common ability to replace fossil power generation with renewable energy sources. So this is red. The representative of Moxnes and Red stands for an industrial policy which, in my view, is reactionary and which will lead to the loss of jobs and income if it is implemented. Red's prescription is to say no to power exchange, in the long run shutting down the oil industry, gambled with the oil fund on green technology and, in my view, have an activistic state ownership. I'm going to warn you about that. We've seen enough ghastly examples of how politicians are going to decide which technologies and industries we're going to bet on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1744	I guess that wasn't a direct answer to the question. We know that we have more than enough capacity to export any conceivable surplus of power long before we build NorthConnect. The Council strongly argues that the climate effect is an important reason for building NorthConnect. In the answers to my written questions about the matter, the Council of State replied that neither the Department nor the NVE have assessed the climate impact of NorthConnect. We have one number, and that's the alleged cut of two million CO 2, which NorthConnect itself is spreading. When the government does not have its own calculations, can a claimed climate effect – presented by the applicants behind NorthConnect – be stressed at all during the current concessional treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1756	First of all, the estimate referred to by the representative here is based on a report by the British system operator National Grid. It's not like it's just the owners of NorthConnect who have come up with these numbers themselves. I think there's something strange in the way the representative asks the question, because in my view it seems that he is very engaged in the possibility of reducing more emissions through the cable to Germany, and then I think: is it so that the representative Moxnes actually accepts the premise that cables contribute to cutting emissions, since through his question he seems to think that it is better than the planned cable NorthConnect? I think it's an inconsistent argument from the representative around these questions. I also react to the fact that it seems that the resistance to cables seems to be built on a clean, old-fashioned notion that our power is only an input in other industries, instead of also seeing that this is an innovative and important industry in many other ways and in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1765	This is the point: if NorthConnect cuts emissions in England and Scotland, the construction of it will lead to increased emissions on the continent, which will reduce energy exports to Poland, Estonia and Germany. Now the cable for concessional treatment is in the department. The hearing period shall be 10 March. On 12 March, the Stortinget Committee shall make its views known in several cases concerning NorthConnect, including a Red proposal that NorthConnect should not be built. On 20 March the matter shall be referred to the debate and to the vote in the Grand Duchy. The government is in a minority, but can still decide to grant NorthConnect concession, even if the majority of the population is opposed. Can the Council of State guarantee that the government will not grant NorthConnect concession until the Stortinget has dealt with the matter and made its decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1774	As I said, this case is now under concession in the department. I can't stand here and now decide what the outcome will be, but I can assure the representative that the matter will, of course, be dealt with thoroughly in my department – also in the light of the agreements reached in Stortinget, and the leaders that are there. It's in the bottom. I don't think I am getting any answers to the questions I put back to the representative either. I still believe that it is a very positive thing that we have a power exchange between Norway and our neighbouring country. I believe it helps to strengthen our security of supply, and it helps cut greenhouse gas emissions. I am so pleased that the representative seems to think this is a positive effect, but again I do not understand this consistent resistance to all new cables. It is part of me that wonders whether the representative might have been more positive if a new cable was planned for e.g. Germany. Now there's one coming to Germany if not too long, and maybe there's a chance for more in the future if Red changes its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1783	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-04.ana.ud555e1797	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
