ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e47	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Per Espen Stoknes, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e69	Per Espen Stoknes is present and will take the seat. The representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e76	On behalf of Kjersti Toppe, Bengt Fasteraune and myself, I would like to submit a proposal for a representative to ensure continued capacity for the treatment and rehabilitation of lung disease in the further operation of Granheim lung disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e81	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e101	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the debate will be divided into two sections to deal first with the budget chapters of the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation and the Ministry of Finance on common and minority policy, public administration, privacy and housing policy, transfer to municipalities and district and regional policies, and then with the budget chapters of the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection and the Ministry of Knowledge on immigration and integration. At the request of the Committee, part 1 of the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and the speaking time will be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 25 minutes, the right 25 minutes, the progress party 15 minutes, the centre party 10 minutes, the Socialist left party 5 minutes, the left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Red Party 5 minutes. The number of part 2 of the debate will be limited to 70 minutes and arranged as follows: the working party 15 minutes, the right 15 minutes, the progress party 10 minutes, the centre party 5 minutes, the Socialist left party 5 minutes, left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, in each part of the debate – within the allocated speaking time – there will be up to three lines with replies from the main figures of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e114	Community functions. We've seen that now when the corona hit. The municipal sector has been crucial for people's everyday lives, but it has also revealed that it was too crowded. There was almost nothing to go on. I'll come back to it. SV is involved in the municipalities, and we have ambitions on behalf of the municipality sector. We want more teachers who have time for all the kids, time to see them, time to follow them up, so that all the kids get out of school with good narcissism, good knowledge and faith in the future. We want all the kids to be in the game. That's why we're now proposing that the SFO be free of charge for all first-rate ratings, and then we want to kick it up. We know how important it is. We want more care and health workers. We've seen that under the pandemic: there's a lot of people who've become lonely and scared, and who haven't got the help they're going to have. Many of the employees are exhausted and apply for other jobs. It can't be like that. In the future, we know that we need more of this. We want those who need user-driven assistance to get it and live a seagoing life. We want a cultural life that thrives and makes life rich and the place attractive to those who live there, and those who can imagine moving there. We want a community sector that helps business with good service, modern societies to work in and also support and help if it's not working. SV will have a local authority sector with knowledge and competence about nature, the environment and climate, in order to take care of nature, the food soil and our free areas. We want a municipality that can take good care of those who are struggling in everyday life. That is why we are also proposing large increases to enable the local government sector to take up the burden of economic hardship, both in its everyday life and in the future. The municipal sector is the security of our everyday lives, and now it's under test. SV believes that there is much better use of money than we are proposing, namely to increase the municipal sector by over 7 billion. kr, if a settlement has been entered into here, to use NOK 7,5 billion. kr on cheaper snuff and sugar. I think the population agrees with SV in this. I want to thank everyone who's been in the first line, but they had too little to go on. Children lost their special education, the elderly and the disabled lost help, and it is not over. The priority is to have enough teachers, enough staff and sufficient competence in the municipal sector in front of tax incentives and in front of cheaper snooping and snooping. The county is important. They have dental health, public transport, secondary school and industrial development. That is why SV has also strengthened these areas. SV has ambitions on behalf of the local government sector. I was sitting and listening at the Political Quarter today. Then I heard the Labour Party, which had little money – a little more, but not enough – and then I heard that the Right had no ambitions. They didn't want anything more for the municipal sector. But SV will! These are other areas we are now discussing, for example. housing. The housing sector has become a difference machine. Boutines have increased a lot. The incomes of those who have little, have remained silent and have fallen, and the housing support has been greatly reduced. I have received a reply from the Minister of State about what this calculation looks like. Swallow if someone in the kroner has got a little more housing support, yet those who have received have gone into the minus, and that is approx. 30000 fewer now than a few years ago. It really doesn't matter. There are also very many other changes that need to be made in the area of housing. There is a great need to increase the House Bank's framework, to increase the House Bank's instruments, so that everyone can live safely. Then the housing allowance is one of them. Getting other ways of living, so that people can get into the real estate market, as SV has suggested many times: opening the start-up loan scheme to those who have the ability to pay, but not to parents, will help many more. If the differences go down and the emissions go down, we need a new government. Then I will address the suggestions SV is behind in the setting, and I will resolve the proposal that has been submitted after the setting was completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e152	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e159	SV says in its comments that the government has not improved since 2013. It's true that fewer people get the bumps now than eight years ago, but this decrease is 16.7 pst. is because the rules have been changed in 2017. They are now assuming monthly income instead of two-year-old tax returns. Will it not be possible for SV to agree that it is good that this change has come, which really means that it was discovered that people had been supported for a long time without any longer needing it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e164	I record that the thing that worries the right most is that someone who doesn't need it has been given housing support. What's good is that now you've changed the housing support, that it's being adjusted – that's good. But there is still a large gap that is not dense, where housing support has fallen in value for many years, and so the reality is 30,000 fewer. We've become almost half a million more people. Many fewer sheep, and those who receive, are less covered by their housing costs while their income has fallen. It's a difference machine. It's unsocial not to raise the living quarters and make it at least cover what it did before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e171	Right is completely in agreement that supports are important, and therefore it is so unlikely that those who really need supports are given supports. So it's also important that we go through the system and make sure that it's just those who need the most, who get this supported. Since 2013, there have been more than 22 billion. kr in the supports. That's good. For an average children's family with bumps, building costs have increased by 34 pst. since 2013. In the same period, the average buffer for the same category has increased by 38 pst. Is this a cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e178	In nominal terms, Norway is now spending less on housing aid than we did in 2009. Bout poisons have increased enormously, and the income of those who earn the worst has fallen. I have asked the Minister of State and got the numbers that are referred to in the proposition. There may be a few families that have received a little more — that is good in that case — but on average, household income is now 130 000 kroner a year — household income. It's so small that I almost don't understand that it's possible to live on it at all. On average, the few who now get housing support have less. They're left with a minus to the end. I think the Right is doing, in this area that they're doing in other social fields, targeting so much that in the end there's almost no one left, because there's no one in the Right's eyes who obviously needs support from the State, except the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e183	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e188	Some of the most important things we can spend money on are kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly — yes, on welfare that gives us a good life and security. Then the local economy is one of the most important things we can bet on. The Labour Party will have growth and development throughout Norway, and there is a need for political governance as a counter-power to the centralisation we see. Work and well-being are the pillars of rural policy, and a country with work and housing across the country is the foundation of a strong community and our common identity. Future faith locally makes Norway better at national level. That is why the Workers' Party is also a party of both cities and districts. Over many decades, we have shown Norway’s best success when we stand together – city and country, hand in hand. A successful district policy requires efforts in a number of areas, such as good health services, education, research, business development, transport and climate. At the same time, the Labour Party believes that there is a need for a well - fed district effort. It is about jobs and value creation, well-being, security, education throughout the country and not least a district-friendly infrastructure. That is why the Labour Party has given priority to this in its alternative budgets. The Labour Party has promised a new direction in district policy when, after the election, it becomes a government change and an Labour Party-led government. We want to build up the contradictions between central areas and districts, not strengthen them, as we see that this government has done. Cities and smaller agglomerations in the districts are interdependent. We have put forward proposals for 60 rural policy measures for a better and more comprehensive rural policy. As a few examples, I can mention: broadband funds: 236 million. kr more than the government Slip protection: 150 million. kr more than the government grants to fishing port facilities; highways Rehabilitation of county roads for timber transport FOT Route Purchases eco-friendly boat and ferry transport charging bet All of this gets a much stronger bet than the government has made. The main instrument of good welfare is a good local economy. It is a prerequisite for the provision of welfare services across the country, and in all its budget proposals – year by year – the Labour Party has proposed strengthening the local economy with more than the government has proposed. In these years we're talking about large sums in different ways – about 23 billion. kr more to the municipalities over all these years. It doesn't work because we're going to have more than the government. We do this because it has been and is necessary to prioritise more money for the municipalities than the government has been willing to do. We believe that kindergarten, school, elderly care and healthcare are important services in people's everyday lives and the most important thing we can spend the community's money on. We need to expand and strengthen these services, and then you have to put more money in the pot than the government has been willing to do. For 2021, we propose an income increase for municipalities of 3.15 billion. kr. 2.5 B.C.E. NOK 650 million of this goes to the municipalities. kr goes to the counties. In addition, we strengthen the top-level funding mechanism for resource-intensive services by 300 million. kr, which the government and partners were unable to do, even after many and long negotiations. We also have a number of other initiatives that will help to strengthen and improve the service provision that municipalities will provide to their citizens. We know that 2020 has been marked by considerable uncertainty in the municipal sector. Municipalities entered into 2020 with the worst financial framework for the free income of 15 years. Then came the coronary apathy on top of it, and that crisis is not over yet. The municipalities have managed that crisis in an excellent and good way. We also see that we are facing great needs in the future. There are demographic challenges, there is a need in school, there are climate change — and everyone requires major investment. Unfortunately, the government is not arming the municipalities to deal with the big problems we see them facing. There will be no increase in municipal economic space in 2021. All the so-called growth is more than eaten up by the increased costs we see as a result of demography, pensions, making resource-intensive services more expensive by the state, and under-funded by the kindergarten reform. In addition, the possibility for municipalities to receive the income from property taxes, as they received earlier. This weakens well-being, and it increases differences. The working party has other and greater ambitions for the municipalities. We are talking about better quality in well-being, care and school. Teachers, nurses, health professionals and all the others who work in the municipality, which is the first line in our welfare services, must be given priority. The time has come to strengthen the community and common well-being, not weaken it. As I said, in 2021 neither do the municipalities escape restrictions and impose restrictions as a result of the corona. I think you could say that this is reality. There is uncertainty as to the cost of the different restrictions and infectious diseases. This is where the municipalities must be given security. They must be fully assured that these costs and lost revenue will be covered. They must be fully assured that this will be fully covered. It is absolutely necessary that the government be clear and clear and give these guarantees, because the last thing we need now is insecurity in the municipalities around this. This could make the situation much more difficult to deal with than it needs to be. To the key words «forecastability» until the end: When the municipality of Bø, following a bench proposal from the Right-Rapporteur, decided to cut the property tax, the government was out and said that Bø municipality had to take full responsibility for itself. That's right. That the municipal politicians in Bø used their right under the law to make decisions, I don't really criticize, but that the government is now turning around, from saying clearly that this experiment of reducing municipal income makes Bø stand for himself, to say no, now Bø will of course have much of the loss covered by the state treasury, I think I'm tired. I get quote VG, which wrote the following: ‘But the government makes a non-backbone exception and coughs up a one-off solution to get a batch trap in Bø to be rescued.’ VG continues: ‘The government itself amended the rules in order to avoid several municipalities doing so. However, when the government injects emergency aid into the tax haven, it is still subject to the reservation that no one else will receive this help.’ VG concludes: ‘For we are generally opposed to tax havens. In addition, where they have to be subsidized by Norwegian oil money, it is worse than worse.’ The newspaper also had an analysis of this stunt. They wrote: ‘Sture Pedersen has been proclaimed by District Minister Linda Hofstad Helleland to District Policy Adviser to the Government. He is promised despite the fact that the tax proposal he has launched has triggered chaos, and has threatened to put the economy in control. He makes his career on a grip that the government itself admits cannot be copied. This is evidence that both the government’s fiscal policy and district policy are in the process of being traced.’ I can only say that VG and Dagbladet hit the nail right on the head. It was a very short, clear and clear political analysis of the situation we have seen in the last few days around that matter. I bring up the proposal that the Labour Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e263	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e271	In the statement by the representative on the budget, we heard nothing about the cuts and under-funded measures that lie there. Only the removal of state-funded care for the elderly in Lillesand, Björnafjorden, Selbu, Stjørdal and Inner Eastfold involves a cut of 295 million. kr. Or take the funding of the school meal, which has been important for the Workers' Party's education policy: it is funded by 300 million. kr, but simple school food from 1st to 7th grade for half a year costs about 517 million. kr. That means that there are the municipalities that will be left with the rest of this bill. Does the representative not believe that it is both right and important that the measures for the municipalities be fully financed so that they are not subject to costs for which they do not have the funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e278	It is good that Benestad's representative cares so much about the municipal economy, but then she might have voted in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal, which actually strengthens the municipal economy by over 3 billion. kr. What Benestad and her government are doing is they're weakening the municipal economy, and they're doing it piece by bit, and they're doing it year by year. Year after year they go completely surgically into the community economy because the representative Benestad would much rather give tax relief to those who have the most from before. We can only look at the budgetary proposals that the Right and the Government have made in recent years. The fourth year was the worst in 15 years, and what is for the next year, which we are discussing today, follows closely the proposal that was last year: it is a minus budget for the municipalities of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e283	When reading the Workers' Party's Alternative State Budget, I believe many of us lack the responsible line of Jens Stoltenberg, who was former leader in the party. He would probably never accept that a drive with such paper money as a do here. For example, one cut that one has is 2.4 billion. kr for consulting in the country. It sounds very popular, and it probably sells out, before one goes to the depths. We've tried to go to the depths: what would such a cut mean? Within Bane NOR's territory, for example, it would be meant that one had to stop the plans of the Ringerix Railway. Within the state road system, which is also a major consumer of consulting services, one had to stop the planning of E6 Oslo East, E39 Hordfast, E39 Sulafjorden, E39 Vartdals- and Halsafjorden, E39 Ålesund-Molde, E16 Stanghelle-Arna, to identify some projects that would be at risk of that policy. Is this just a political game from the Workers' Party, or is there something we'd like to see if they're going to be in the government of the House, that one should cut the consulting in the state of the size currently proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e290	On Friday we will discuss the transport position in Stortinget. I am pleased to be able to join it with the representative Njåstad. Then we're going to discuss all of the Es that he brought up here. What is the matter is that if there is someone who cares for the municipalities and the well-being that the inhabitants should have, it is the Workers' Party's draft budget. I record that the representative Njåstad was not at all interested in telling us what priorities he has done for the municipalities, but then I get to help him and say that there is no particular reason to rejoice in the municipalities when they read the alternative budget of the Progress Party. There is also no reason to rejoice when they see that the Progress Party has spent the day and night for several weeks negotiating with the government, but they could not even put 300 million back. kr to resource-intensive services, as announced by the Progress Party before the negotiations were under way. That is what we are recording from the Progress Party in this budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e297	When the Workers' Party is against municipal tax havens, I expect the Workers' Party to vote for SV's proposal in the Chamber. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. What I was going to ask was that in June, in the spring, the Workers' Party, the Senterpartiet and SV agreed on a proposal that the state should take full advantage of the additional costs of climate change in the states' boat and ferry traffic. In this setting, the Working Party is not included. The Swedish authorities now have a proposal to ensure that the necessary conversions to zero-emission solutions in ferry and boat traffic are financed by the State and that the requirements must now be set. It will also mean great opportunities for the shipbuilding industry along the coast when they are assigned. What is the reason why the Workers' Party has changed its mind since June?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e304	Now I do not agree with the premise that we have changed our mind. It is important that the state helps to convert to more climate-friendly solutions in municipalities and counties, and the representative Andersen knows very well that the Workers' Party is very much in favour. That is probably a reason, which SV would rather consider for themselves, that they have suddenly become alone on their proposals in some areas here. We have put funds into the budget to strengthen the possibility of taking that transition. Then, of course, it's about priorities. And that's how, as Andersen's representative is also aware, we've seen that counties and municipalities have been down-prioritized for eight years, and it's not possible to reverse that trend in one year. But when we look forward to it, I think that Andersen and I should be able to agree on how to strengthen the commitment she is calling for here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e311	With that, the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e316	Koronakrisa has had a major impact on the Norwegian economy and is a framework for all industries and sectors throughout the country, including the municipal sector. Throughout the Koronacris, the Right has been very clear that we should set up for the municipalities. We have done so through several economic action packages that the government has produced and has supported them. The local government sector is strengthened by approx. 20 B.C.E. kr, plus that they have a gain on lower cost and price increases resulting from the pandemic in 2020. In addition, we will be working on the new aging on Thursday, with even more money coming to the municipalities in the current year. The economic situation in the local government sector has accumulated well and the operating performance is at the level of TBU’s recommendations and large available funds, which have almost doubled since the accession of the government of Solberg. The municipalities have a buffer of approx. 60 B.C.E. kr, and it is in quite a contrast to this uproar and the crisis maximisation carried out by the Workers' Party in the fall. Rana Municipality, a municipality that was at the head of this, has over 0.5 billion. kr on book. So it doesn't have any credibility, what the Labour Party signals in its budgets. Most municipalities have a good economic base at the entrance to 2021. The municipalities, as an organisation and together with very good contributions, have shown a tremendous commitment and great flexibility this year. Municipalities are well equipped to deliver good services to their inhabitants. The good operating results in recent years have caused the number of municipalities on the ROBEK list to fall sharply. At the beginning of October 2020, there were only twelve municipalities on the ROBEK list. In comparison, there were 46 municipalities on the ROBEK list when the government joined in 2013. In the budget for 2021, the municipal sector is compensated for by a special addition of 1.9 billion. kr due to expected tax failure. We get a growth in free income of 2 billion. And we're now up to 412 billion. kr in free income. This is approx. Mr. 36-37 Mr. kr more than in 2013, when Erna Solberg took over as Prime Minister. Of the growth of free income, the municipalities receive SEK 1.6 billion. kr, while county councils receive 400 million. kr. This growth is in line with what was announced in the municipal bill. From the growth, something is going to bet on children and young people's mental health, and something is going to bet on low-emission ferries in the counties. In addition, the county councils will receive a further 1.25 billion in the following year. kr in compensation for lost ticket revenue in the public transport sector, which is in addition to the free revenues. The frame bill will also increase by 100 million. kr as a single entry permit for the provision of habilitation and relief for children and young people with reduced function as a result of increased load under the coronary crisis. Taking into account demographic and pension costs, the real space for action in the sector will be 700 million. kr to next year. It is significantly higher than what we have experienced in the last few years and significantly higher than what the Labour Party delivered both in 2011, in 2012 and in the setting they gave in the autumn of 2013, before they left the table. The growth in the period Erna Solberg has fallen, has been 0.7 pst., against 0.6 pst. in the eight years preceding the accession of the Solberg Government. So the difference between 0.6 and 0.7 is going to be a little bit smaller, but it's going to be several billion dollars. Now it's not just the growth of free income that matters. It's the municipal sector's total pot of money that means something, and there was growth bigger with the red-green. It owes it to the escalation plan within psychiatry, and there is a strong commitment to the development of kindergartens. I was the spokesperson myself at that time. It was underfunded reforms, and it didn't have our competences that we could use to help us escalate within psychiatry. My municipality was greedy of both recruiting, adopting and not least following up on these reforms. We also see from the Labour Party budget that there are still new reforms, in the middle of the pandemic: scholastic food, free SFOs, new environmental workers. So the local authorities are not given the opportunity to focus on the challenges they themselves face. Indebtedness in municipalities has increased, much of which is due to the fact that merged municipalities have recorded large debts in connection with and before the merger. It warned the government against, but we were pushed down into the size of the opposition. They didn't want this to be slowed down. We wanted an arrangement where the County would approve borrowing. Oppositions said no. I finally take up all the good suggestions that Right is on. That's very good suggestions, so here we can be consensual in the hall, hopefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e337	The representative of Ove Trellevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e344	We want it to be 'light in the house' throughout the country. Therefore, we will use the House Bank more actively and facilitate housing in the districts. Arrangements need to be put in place to reduce the risk of housing in rural areas. We want start-up loans to be available to ordinary young people, and we want to facilitate more roads into the housing market. We believe that municipalities should be encouraged to use from-rent-to-ownership as a principle in local housing social planning. How will the Right ensure that the housing market does not continue to be a difference machine?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e351	Right, we want to live all over the country. We want municipalities to bet on vibrant and good communities. If we are to achieve growth and development in our districts, it is unlikely that municipalities will have greater autonomy in municipal planning. It's about building attractive agglomerations, good communities with great housing development, where one provides for low costs by creating construction sites and those of the kind – and also that those who want to live more widely on their backyards will be allowed to bust their way there. It is a little bit about getting municipalities to grow and develop, and if it is to make it easier for them to live in communities, municipalities themselves must be allowed to do more than they have done in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e357	I can sign that there are many good suggestions from the Right in this case. At least we support them, as the representative spoke out from the pulpit. I also want to show you good media lookups. The last time in NRK Westland today I was able to read a media release about the regional reform where the red-green sayings they're going to reverse it, costing what it's going to cost. There the representative Trellevik has a very good statement that it is then much better – he thinks – to say that Right thinks it is better just to put everything down. It sounds like good progress party policy. The representative knows that if he has the government with him on this point of view, there are multiples in Stortinget by coming to us. I wonder how the representative intends to follow up on the good intentions he had in this matter. There's a multiple in this period – so we're ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e362	Thank you. The chosen one comes from the fact that the county of Westland spent 0.5 billion. kr on the merger, and it was initiated by a member of the Central Party and a member of the Labour Party. When the Labour Party and the Center Party are so clear that they want to do this again, there are also forces in the Western County Municipality that want to do it again. I mean, when we've spent 0.5 billion dollars. If we want to merge two states, we have to give it time to evaluate it. If it turns out that this is wrong in the future, we have to discuss it. But I think it's far too early to break this up now, as the Center Party and so far as the Workers' Party in Westland is concerned. We have to give them time, and then we have to evaluate and evaluate. If it turns out that it is wrong in the future, I am not in the foreground that we can discuss whether we need the county council – once in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e367	The centre party has a strong strengthening in its alternative budget, in particular strengthening the small and medium-sized municipalities in order to correct the re-priority made by the government from small and medium-sized municipalities to large urban municipalities. To West News, representative Trellevik says that the Centre Party's alternative budget will give less money to merged municipalities. He pulls out the Bear Fjord, which will get 4.5 million. kr less with the budget of the Centre Party. It's a direct untruth. With the Central Party budget, Björnafjorden would receive a net of 4.2 million. NOK more with the impact we have on the municipal framework, SEK 11 million. kr with what we have in the crisis package. This applies to all municipalities throughout Norway. Where does the representative take these numbers from when no municipality loses with us? What is the purpose of spreading such lies about the Central Party's alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e374	I think she's going to have to read West New again, because there's nothing to say about what the municipalities are going to see in total. It says the Center Party will remove the region center proposal. The municipality of Bearnfjord loses millions of dollars, the municipality of Eyegard loses millions of dollars, and the municipality of Alver loses millions of dollars. Removing a region-centred option reduces the size of the merged municipalities. The prize goes to Oslo and the biggest cities. 26.6 million. kr more gets Oslo when a removes the region centre proposal and runs it on the frame. Writes the central part of the page in the settings. The Labour Party did not write it, but the Center Party wrote it in the setting, and so it is. It is totally wrong that this does not have any consequences for municipalities that have been merged, because it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e379	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e384	First, I want to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation, as usual, on the budget, and I would particularly like to thank the Committee Secretary, Marianne Bränden, and the apparatus around her, who in a hectic time has helped us with very good work to get the vote ready. I think everyone can be some that 2020 has been a special year. Norway, its households, its businesses and its municipalities have faced major challenges with an unrivalled everyday life. Like many others in the past, I would like to thank the municipalities and municipalities for their efforts in 2020. 2021 is also going to be a demanding year, with the management of the pandemic, plus that the municipalities as a social developer have to make sure that there is a well-functioning society again when, hopefully, we get back to normal soon. Many have lost their livelihoods. The safety net of the welfare state has not been large enough for all businesses to survive. In the years ahead, a more focused focus is on how to better equip and maintain Norwegian businesses and jobs. We politicians have to listen more to the companies themselves when we meet them. Therefore, I am pleased that the Progress Party has had a solid budget impact in order to strengthen jobs. We received tax incentives that create jobs in Norway and do not sponsor jobs in Sweden. When we travel around, there is one thing company owners tell us very clearly, and it is that they are concerned about the competitive conditions of Norwegian local owners compared to foreign owners. That's the birthright we get when we're out talking to the business community. It's just so strange that the other parties, on the other hand, don't get the same birthright and take over the same situation. We're actually having a strange situation, because if a local and foreign owner is going to compete, it doesn't look like the starting line. When you run a hundred meters, it's actually an advantage to start at the same time - not let the Norwegian local owner start ten meters behind the foreign owner. The party of progress has recently stressed the importance of removing the unfair taxes on wealth. We are pleased to see that some municipalities are leading the way in making the tax cuts that businesses are asking for. In our alternative state budget, we have introduced substantial wealth tax laws. In addition, we have proposed to cut the state section, so that municipalities can further compete to cut their wealth tax. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the right-wing spokesperson in Bø, Sture Pedersen, on having seen the national agenda. In a matter that has been debated for a long time, there is a district spokesman who is able to lift the debate and get something done about it. He has really seen this on the agenda, so he ignites so absolutely to get the title of this year's municipal profile, which he got from the Municipal Report. I visited him in September. Vocabulary is a long time to search for. He stands on behalf of the municipality 24 hours a day and arranges for the municipality to grow. I think it's positive that we have such spokesmen. I thought it was great fun to visit them. So I'm a little concerned when I see that the left-hand side parts seem to be a good idea to increase the wealth tax instead of reducing it. It is this tax that harms Norwegian-owned enterprises. It's very strange that both the Labour Party and the Center Party are followers of increasing this tax. The central party says they're a party that's occupied by district policy and districts, but they're to increase a tax that's the most district hostile tax we have in Norway. All of us from the districts know that one of the reasons the districts are going well is that we have local owners who are occupied by the community, who have a generation perspective, and who burn for their community. One would think that it hit the Center Party in the middle of the heart, but in their alternative budget they suggest increasing the tax. I am equally surprised that the Labour Party is so critical of the wealth tax that they will weaken the equity of the companies, which is the job of the employees. It is in the name Workers' Party that a worker's workplace should be busy, but having a property tax that negatively affects the bottom line means that a person loses the capital of the companies in the districts. I am surprised that the Labour Party has the enemy hold and is standing here, as the representative Lauvås did, and almost mocks the government that acknowledges that Bø has gone before, and that one has actually got a debate about the fact that the wealth tax is unfair to the districts, unfair to Norwegian owners. And then one in a political game makes fools of it. One should have traveled more and met the companies that create jobs. We in the Progress Party thought it was great that municipalities competed for being most attractive. I was the spokesperson myself from 2003. We had as our motto to be a yes-municipality. That means that one should say yes to everything that is not a good reason to say no to. I think it's great to see that Sture and others have the same attitude, that one should do what one can to help people move to the municipality and create jobs and optimism. And it works. Only the sample gain that Bø gets, which means that the municipality is seen on the map, is worth a million dollars, and will place Bø on the map in a completely different way than the municipality was before. Therefore, I am very happy that more people have been asked to copy Bø. I have dialogue with several of my colleagues in different municipalities. Young Monrad in Tvedestrand will propose it. Boris Groth in Waksdal is working on the cause. Spokespersons in Sveio, Ruth Eriksen, are also working on a proposal to look at this. And I just got a text message from our group leader, Petter Korneliussen, in Strand, who has a good suggestion, which he will try to air in that municipality tomorrow. It's great to see that there is creativity in Kommune-Noreg, and that one tries to do what one can to facilitate an optimism. Then it's nice to see that there are some other parties locally that can think of those thoughts – I've got Vestnes in More and Romesdal, a central party-driven municipality. I'm glad that there are centre parties with civil facilities, even though there's a long way between them in this room. Luckily, there are a number of people out in the municipality of Norway who think like us, that one has to settle the situation. If we move on, other things are also important. Transportation is always important. I am pleased that we have strengthened the loops for the county road network, and that we have agreed with the government party to distribute the ferry money, so that it goes to those who have gone to implement new technology. But here we should do more, and I hope that in the years to come, we can do more to ensure that business and people do not suffer the most because state politicians do not give enough priority to ferries. Therefore, we should control this more centrally and set a ceiling on prices, so that business is not penalised by priorities in the municipalities. The holiday solution has been a matter that we have been busy since 2013. Those arrangements are still being improved. In the municipal bill, we got additional improvements in place. The government would come back with the details of how to make improvements in life. They did, and they said they would come with the details in the autumn of 2021. Fortunately, the government party is with us in the comments that this is going to come into revision. This means that the county councils and the fire souls who are on the verge of replacing the ferries with a bridge know that there will be improvements, and can work with it in sight. We're busy creating results. We encourage all municipalities to assume that the scheme will be improved in line with the signals given in the municipal bill. The local economy must be mentioned. The debate about him is reasonable. That's what it's been for eight years. Every time we've debated this since 2013, they've said red-green that it's a little too little money. It is well known that there is more money than it was under the Stoltenberg government, and that there is more money on the book in Kommune-Noreg today than when different bourgeois parties – I was saying – took over and came into the government offices. Today there is more money, actually twice as much money on the book, in Kommune-Noreg. Then it is impossible to have a serious debate when one says that there is little money in Kommune-Noreg. We see very clearly that the results disprove it. Of course, municipalities always want more money. We have a great deal of understanding for that. But I think we should be honest and say that the municipalities have received more money, and that the municipalities have never had more money on the book and never had better results than they have during this government and this growing majority in the last seven to eight years. The municipal reform has also landed in these two periods with this plurality. There have been several and more robust municipalities. We still have challenges with municipalities that have too small a professional environment, which means that they need to assess their own situation. Resource - writing services have also been mentioned. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party has wanted to go even further. We got a budget label going in the right direction. We make sure to increase the sum that is allocated to the small ones. In particular, I would like to present the Vice-Presidents of the Advance Party in Fitjar, Sigurd Andre Maraas, who have been very supportive of the arrangements for the small municipalities. He's been pleased that we've changed the number from 3,000 to 3,200 and added more money, so that Fitjar and other small municipalities, like the Mosques and Lødningen, meet a slightly lighter budget house, by making sure the Stortinge give money to the little ones. I would like to see that the property was not changed, but that was one of the things we didn't like in the negotiations. Next year we will have many exciting debates. The one we care most about, applies to the law of planning and building. We have a proposal on the power of the State. I was delighted to hear the representative Trellevik in the change of line. He said that the municipalities should be allowed to decide for themselves. When the Stortinget gets it for debate, I hope that we can reach out with common policies that the municipalities should decide more and that the County should decide less. We also get a matter from the government about exemptions. We hope that local democracy will be recognised more than it is today. Property tax is also a matter for the Progress Party is very busy. We look at property as the house, the home of people -- while the red-greens look at him as a treasure item. We've tried to make changes that lower the prom, but we're struggling with politicians locally who do what they can to still tax their inhabitants. Although the bulk of the population is clear that the tax on property is going down, for example, politicians locally still turn around and tax their inhabitants harder. Hence, our fight is not over. Even if one has gone from 7 to now 4 percent in property taxes, our fight against property taxes is not above. We're probably not going to give until we get the property tax completely removed. But we're glad we've done so much. So we're sorry that there are local politicians who don't catch the signal that the Storting wants the property tax to go down, and not up. There is no reason to have property tax. He's just going to be 1.6 pst. of the income of the municipalities. It's pretty small. We have many examples of large - surplus municipalities. Oslo and Trondheim are examples that have greater surpluses than they have in property tax revenue. It would have been possible to remove the property tax and still go with excess. So our view of property taxes is not that there are signs of poor municipal economy, but rather poor governance. We will also work for the next year to strengthen our ownership rights. We recognize that people have a right of ownership. We do that by going through protective equipment. We will discuss whether County and State Road Administration can intervene in land-related matters. We want to end the overrides. I have no faith in centralization. I believe that values are largely created along the coast, in mountain homes or in central strips. I want more people to keep their own, created values. Then, as politicians, we must have stomachs. We must bind ourselves in the field of fiscal policy. It's only when we achieve a district policy and a policy for the whole country that creates values.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e428	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e433	I'm recording that the Progress Party is concerned about the consulting industry. Now it's like the public sector has become a dairy cow for the consulting industry. I can also reassure the Progress Party that the Workers' Party is providing the necessary means to ensure the progress plan for the Ringeriksbanen, which the Advance Party and the Government do not. But back to the matter. We see that today's government, with the support of the Progress Party, wants to cut the welfare state, privatize and centralize. The Labour Party wants to strengthen the welfare state and implement a trust reform. We want to build our own skills. That is why we cut in consultants, with notice of spending money on regular employment. What we see in Nav is that they save millions on having their own employees. The police are doing the same now. Why does the Progress Party not have greater respect for taxpayers' money, so that money for welfare actually goes to welfare offers, and not to fill up the wallets for the consulting industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e442	It's a direct mistake to have a cut in the public sector. I don't think any other parliament in the world has the potential we have to spend so much money under the corona pandemic. If you look at what disposals this accumulation is making these weeks, and then you have a rhetoric that we're cutting in the welfare state -- I think we're going to go wild in the rest of the world if you look at the money we have. Only in the local government sector do we use extra billions to an extent that we have not seen. I think it makes sense that we rent services before specialized things, such as. planning Hordfast and all road projects endangered by the Workers' Party. One does not need to have that top competence in all areas of your own organisation. It'll be expensive. Then it is better to rent him in when one needs him. But to cut 25 pst. in consulting, as the Labour Party does, is directly unprofessional and would probably never have happened if Jens Stoltenberg had been the leader of the Labour Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e449	Several representatives have drawn up their right-wing spokesman in Bø and his fight against wealth taxes. The vast majority knew that this had an impact on the income system. But there's something special when you can decide in a municipality that one can take away 5 million. kr of the income, that one should receive a new move of 10 million. as a penalty for the removal of the real property tax. It actually reminds me of an inheritance from a planned economic thinking. We don't think this way when we think about the Maritime Fund, when we think about ownership taxes, and when we think about concessional incomes. How does the Progress Party view this when we now hear that the government is going to bring down an income equalization selection? Does the Progress Party consider that the property tax should be part of the income bias in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e456	It'll be a little difficult to use one minute to answer such a complicated question. The representative said it was an income-sampling selection. In the word income dithering, all these mechanisms are to smooth out differences between municipalities. The Progress Party and I are probably more interested in living more of their own income and not just of these. So the Right is definitely getting multiple numbers with us to go in the direction that one has a less complicated system, which allows one to keep more locally of what happens to local value creation. So the selection to look at the income system should, for our part, come up with good suggestions on how to get a part of the corporate tax back to municipalities, for example. When it relates to the property tax, I would like him to disappear, so that he was not part of either the income bias or the income of the municipality or state, because it is only when we had had a level playing field between Norwegian and foreign owners. So I'm completely in line that we should make arrangements to get rid of the wealth tax, and then he doesn't have it as part of the income bias of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e468	Now we've at least made it clear that when the government parties and the Progress Party talk about that they're too small differences, that's not true. Now we are shown that both the Right Party and the Advance Party want the differences between municipalities to increase, and that the differences between people should be increased – that is, the rich should become richer and the poor should become poorer. The representative Njåstad spent almost all his time arguing why it is right to sew cushions under the arms of the richest and freshest in this country. But when I'm out, the Progress Party sometimes talks about, for example, user-driven personal assistance, resource-requiring services and other conditions that people are very dependent on, for example, are disabled. Why does the Progress Party always choose the freshest and richest when they sit at the negotiating table, leaving those who need the most community in the loop?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e477	It's not right that we don't give priority to those who need the most public when we're at the negotiating table. If you go in and look at all the changes we have in the budget, it's not a pattern that they don't go to those who need it the most. Older people, for example, get 400 million. kr more through the conciliation. They were also given the revised national budget. I was able to raise money to the elderly. What's regrettable there is that there are extremely many municipalities that don't search, which actually don't take the time to search for a state system that's lying there. I think they should rather use the time to search for money that exists in the country, and help those who need it, those who are lonely, older, than writing reading articles and complaining and creating vocabulary uprisings. Instead of complaining that they have too little money, they should use the time they use to create these insurrections to actually search for the money that the Progress Party has received. And now they have a new chance because we got more money into the state budget, for example. the elderly. When it comes to resource-requiring users, we have engaged in it. User-controlled personal assistance has us legislating and engaging us very much in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e486	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e491	The center party prioritizes spending money on what matters to people in everyday life. We will ensure that children and young people have a safe and educational environment every day in kindergarten and at school, and that older people can live an active life and have a dignified care towards the end of life. We put the most important thing first: services for the inhabitants and security of people throughout the country. Municipalities and county councils provide these basic welfare services to all those living in Norway and are those who ensure living communities. They are becoming more and more responsible for tasks and increased costs to secure services for the inhabitants, without looking at it again in the government budget for 2021. At the same time, we are still in the middle of a pandemic that further reinforces the problems of many communities, businesses and people throughout the country. The Government and the Advance Party are still making new demands and a claim that the economy of municipalities and county municipalities has never been better. It's almost as if the government parties and the Progress Party believe that local politicians kiss on offer because they want people hurt. Not since 2004, so many municipalities have announced difficult budgets for the next year as at present, and it does not take into account corona expenditure. The action space presented by the government is 700 million. kr for municipalities and counties until next year before efficiencies – yes, that is, you have to go down or jump faster. The cashier becomes lean when a number of costs are reasonably excluded from the government's calculations. The level of property taxes is historically high and record municipalities have introduced property taxes under the government of Solberg. The government and the policy of the Progress Party have a large part of the blame for that. The background to difficult decisions in many municipalities is that they have experienced a significant increase in the cost of care services in recent years, far beyond price increases, while requirements have increased. The change in the redundancy system means that more people need social assistance. This should be covered by the municipalities themselves. Once again, municipalities have been given increased responsibility for financing resource-intensive services – 300 million. kr – this at the top of the government bill for almost 1.5 billion. DKK in extra costs for municipalities in the last four years. Too many municipalities, and for people who are going to provide and receive services, this is an unsustainable situation. That means you have to cut into other services. In its proposal, the centre party proposes to both reverse the cost increase of the 300 million. kr for resource-intensive services and introduce a scheme for municipalities with the highest expenditure, as the government has not carried out an investigation, as the Stortinget requested in the spring. The centre party will continue to have an overall review of the mechanism of resource-intensive services and ensure that all relevant costs are included in the basis of municipal ownership. The government chooses to keep increased pension costs out of telling about the room for action and does not compensate for the nursery code. In these days, many families are struggling financially. We are already seeing a growth in the need for social assistance, and volunteers are reporting an increasing number of needs. In sum, this means that a lot of municipalities and counties see less when budgets are to be created. It means worse services. One of the lessons from the financial crisis was that municipalities and counties are important in maintaining activity in Norway. I mean, it's true now, too. The centre party therefore proposes a significant additional allocation to the municipalities and counties as a result of the coronary apathy. The funds are in addition to the ordinary strength and are proposed for activities promotion. The municipal sector has a key role to play in maintaining activity in order to avoid unemployment and further economic decline in relation to the pandemic. Then we need to enable them economically to implement important projects for employment in the construction industry in particular, but also to strengthen the service provision near people across the country. The centre party has an offensive attitude to raising its competences. It is now necessary in a time of crisis. In-company training resources are an opportunity to keep up with their activity and to make them qualified for what comes after the crisis. The system has been a great success. The centre party therefore proposes an increase of 250 million. kr. The central party proposes in its budget overall, including the corona package, to strengthen the transfers to the municipalities and county municipalities by over 7 billion. kr. This will make it possible to maintain and develop the provision of services to people and to counter unemployment throughout the country. I'm not going to get away from the Right Reader's War against the Center Party's cut-off proposal of the pointless regional centre grant. The regional centre grant goes to new merged municipalities with more than 8 000 inhabitants joining the municipal reform, and not to municipalities that were regional centres before 2014. That doesn't make sense. The central party's financial approach to local communities means that all municipalities, in total, come out better, both small, medium-sized and large municipalities. The basic principle of the Central Party is that state transfers to municipalities and counties should ensure that everyone has the opportunity to provide equivalent services to people throughout Norway. The problems for some cannot be solved by making it more difficult for others. We believe that it should be able to live in people throughout the country and that it is a good thing for Norway. The natural resources are scattered. Then people must be able to live well. In order to achieve this, the big community must provide security, services, education and jobs wherever one lives. There must be services close to people across the country – a fight the Center Party is willing to take. No, it's not possible to blame for megatrends, such as some later to believe. If it is political will, there are also opportunities. The counties don't get the money they need in the budget deal to make good high school, ensure good dental health, build better roads, secure against race and pace, and not least provide a good collective offer, especially for ferry and boat. The fall in county roads is growing, the counties are forced to drop out of higher education and schools, and the ferry and boat prices are increasing. The Central Party is therefore now proposing, in its alternative budget, to increase the framework of the county municipalities both as a general strengthening of the basic services and through its own targeted corona package. The size has decided that all public transport by sea shall be zero and low-emission transport by 2025. This has led to enormous extra costs for the counties, which have not been compensated. That is why we are proposing 200 million. kr in particular for those counties which have large costs for ferries and boats. In sum, we're proposing $1.6 billion. kr more for the counties outside the corona package. The government quarter is Norway's largest and most complex construction project, for which Statensbyggen is responsible. The size has not been presented for any final cost framework before in the draft State budget for 2021. The government proposal for 2021 therefore invites this hall to adopt building stage 1 with a cost framework of 20,5 billion. kr without a larger description. It's alarming. The centre party is therefore opposed to giving a clear signal to the final cost framework for the government quarter. We believe that it cannot be defended to re-use as many tens of billions of government quarters as Right wants. It's a shame to see the party's kneel. The centre party believes that housing is a well-being in line with work, health and education. A safe and stable housing situation is a necessary framework for all human lives. It is a measure of the Centre Party that it shall be possible to own as much as possible its own dwelling. The development of the housing market contributes to increasing the economic differences between urban and built people in a way that is unfortunate. The centre party therefore wants to strengthen and expand the role of the House Bank in order to enable more people to realise their own housing. In addition to asking for this to work on, we're increasing the lending framework by 5 billion. kr in our option. Summary: With the Central Party's proposal for a State budget, Norway would thus have a stronger social and geographical cohesion, greater security for people, better services close to people throughout the country and not least more Norwegian jobs. Norway would have more teachers, more kindergarten teachers, more senior care staff, better ferry and boat services, less dangerous county roads and have secured Norwegian jobs with the Central Party's proposals for state budget. In short, our proposal is a budget for the whole of Norway that shows a different direction — one that believes in Norway as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e531	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e536	Now the left-hand side has been very busy by the chairman of Bø in his posts here today, but I didn't hear anything from the representative of the Center Party about what's happening in Bø and this property tax. The right and the centre parts share the same values in many ways: we want to strengthen local democracy, we want municipalities to have their own choice, and we want more local self-determination. We don't want people in Oslo to sit down and decide if the municipalities should be allowed to do that or not. I would like to know if it is such that the Center Party supports the Center Party locally in Bø, which was for the spokesperson's proposal to remove the property tax in Bø. Does the Central Party now support what is happening in Bø, where a local wishes to remove the property tax and the Central Party locally supports it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e543	It's no secret that the Center Party is skeptical about property taxes on working capital. The centre party in Bø, on behalf of its citizens, has voted in favour of the proposal launched by Høre's rapporteur in Bø, a proposal which is now becoming an ideological experiment in which the state and the government must come to Bø running because they were unable to overlook the consequences of reducing their own income. That's what's the fascist of this proposal. There should be no surprise as the income system works, that this would lead to less income. At the same time, I fully understand the Right-Rapporteur in Bø, who says that the state has left us, and comes up with good, creative suggestions in an attempt to create the bleakness of and activity in its own municipality. He's supposed to be famous for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e550	I notice that the representative Nordlund didn't spend a single second talking about the marine communities, despite the fact that he wrote a lot of posts and got very involved in it a few months ago. I engaged myself a little for the aquaculture communities at the time I was rapporteur in a municipality of aquaculture. Then, by chance, it was a red-green government. We float a lot of lobbies to get more income for aquaculture communities. The answer from the red-green government was no. We didn't get any of the world's things. It wasn't until there was a civil government. The center part tries to create an idea that they would overwhelm the bet we got, and even had tables that showed how much more one would get with the center part. Those who think about the Central Party in the Ministry of Local Affairs think that the sum was zero. But now at least we had the ability to take the central part of the word when creating tables and telling us how much more. I wonder: would you like to create tables based on the alternative budget proposal for 2021 on how much more marine communities get with the Senterpartiet? I have a problem finding the rhetoric you had earlier this year, in the alternative arrangement for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e557	What's the result of the sale of new concessions this year is probably 7.1 billion. kr, if I remember correctly, so a little over a billion over what the government estimated would be the income for the year as a whole. We in the Central Party also have a different distribution in our alternative state budget, and we have also launched proposals to increase the proportion of municipalities and county municipalities at the expense of the state. It's now that you don't cover all the issues in the debate, and then I think the representative agrees with me on the reason that you might have to read the setting to see the whole scheme and not least the respective parties' alternative state budget. Then you get a different picture of both the facts and the totality of what the parties want to go into, which points to a direction where the services are close to people, and a larger local democracy is decisive for our part to create activity throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e564	The SV and the Central Party are the parties closest to each other in terms of local economy, and also in terms of regional policy instruments. It's good, sail if SV is probably hacked better than the Center Party in these areas. But I'm going to ask the same question to the Center Party as I did to the Workers' Party, because I'm a little surprised at this turn of events that both the Workers' Party and the Center's have on how we're going to finance emission-free boat and ferry traffic. There we agreed that we would ask the government to put forward proposals for financial instruments, which would mean that the State would take full advantage of the additional costs. Now SV has made a proposal saying that this must be included in the income system, so that it is fully financed. The centre party is not involved in this, but in its post it sounded as if the representative Nordlund meant it. Does he think that there should still be some kind of outburst in the state budget with a sum? Or is it true that this will be part of the income system, so that there will be permanent arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e571	There is no secret that the undersigned knows the area well – I have worked a lot on it in the past. It is also the case that the proposal referred to here by the representative Andersen, to which SV is promoting the vote, is not the same as the representative has previously been. This proposal goes further and shorter than the original proposal. While it is all right to agree on the need to obtain a financing solution to meet the costs of zero and low emissions, Andersen's proposed representative is that the government's criteria for new letters of invitation to tender should, without exception, require zero emissions. There's no technology today, but the Center Party has great optimism about getting there one day, and it's going to happen quite quickly. But the proposal drawn up by the representative, Andersen, is a proposal that goes further and makes a greater claim and goes further in the standardisation process, of which the centre party cannot be a part, even though we share the ambition that the cost of transition to zero and low emissions must be borne by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e577	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e582	We're about to put behind us a historic year, different year 2020. It has taken a lot of many, and in Stortinget we have negotiated solutions that face the crisis, but that are not least equiping us for the time being. While it is important to deliver what municipalities and businesses need now, we must have looked at the attachment of time to come. I hope and believe that 2021 will be a year with more positive news than 2020 has given us. It started promising, with a good municipal budget and state budget for 2020. Before the pandemic came upon us in March, things didn't look so bad at all. Over several years, the government has delivered good transfers to the municipalities. The municipality economy in Norway is well above good. Business in the city and built experienced growth, jobs were created, and unemployment was low. The arrows pointed upward. That's why it happened to us so ruthlessly when the world was turned upside down in March, and I'm glad that the municipal minister was early out with his assurances that the municipalities would be compensated for corona-related expenses. This gave the municipalities the security that was important to ensure the necessary protection of infectious diseases and good kindergartens, knowledge of schools and quality of health and care services. A small cross in the sea was the opposition's desire to create confusion. Although the municipal minister repeated several times his insurance for compensation, there were attempts to doubt how the government was going to deliver. It came from both the opposition on Stortinget and co-ordinated workers' party rapporteurs who called out a warning about both their own and others' local economy in a free fall. Political discussions are always welcomed, but there was noise and unnecessary uncertainty at a time when several municipalities were desperately searching for clear answers. Extra appropriations and action packages for the current year, as well as appropriations for next year's government budget, show that the Minister of State and Government kept their word. The money has come and will continue to come in 2021. In the past, I have stood on this pulpit and argued against the fact that it is closeness to the municipality house that determines whether you live in a municipality that meets the needs of the inhabitants. In the debate where distances are used as an argument against larger municipalities, I wanted to focus on much more important things. We need to know that kindergartens, schools and health services provide services that are to be trusted, and for the Left, the inhabitants of Norway are equally important, regardless of whether you live in the city or in the countryside. Social-liberal ideology extends all over the country. The freedom of self-determination is not restricted by whether you live here in Oslo or at home where I live, on Verrastranda. The restrictions arise when municipalities are no longer able to provide good and stable services to their inhabitants. Our modern age has given us many opportunities to communicate widely, and many can work where they want to. From gloomy pandemic isolation, several of us received a course in online meetings. In the past, networking meetings could provide association to poor engineering with selective implementations. Now dozens of colleagues can wait to meet in a few minutes' notice, just a keystroke away. Some distances have decreased in 2020. That is, we can see lasting changes in the years to come. Such a revolution in the way one conducts meetings and events has bound the country together. Of course, we'll go back to physical meetings in several contexts, that's absolutely necessary. As often as I've had contact with people all over the country this year, it's almost hard to copy with travel. To continue to expand broadband and ensure coverage to the maximum possible extent in Norway is and must be high on the government priority list. We've got our eyes up so that proximity and the provision of services don't necessarily need to be measured at physical distances. Many argue against community mergers and believe that large, allegedly cruel counties such as the Vikings are a weakening. Perhaps it is time to discuss the realities of the positive effects with large municipalities and fewer counties. Next year we are going into an election campaign where the opposition prepares for war against a supposedly centralizing government, a government that has reformed large parts of the country with regional reform, municipal mergers, police reform, judicial reform, etc. Where these are parties that are making reform as progress, there are also some in the Chamber who are making it as negative. I don't have numbers on how much is going to be reversed with the opposition in the driver's seat. We have been given a beautiful promise that we are at risk of getting a government that wants to reverse us into the future. I don't think that's the solution, I don't think it'll bring the country forward. I believe in parties and a government that dares to adapt to changes in society. The budget thus responds well, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Progress Party for its good cooperation in the negotiations on the municipal part of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e605	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e610	It has become a tradition that I take lines with the representative of Skjelstad, and we must continue with traditions. Social democracy made an important choice in the 1970s – an active state policy aimed at ensuring the basis of life and well-being throughout the country. This is different from what we see in neighbouring countries and many other countries in Europe, which provided for centralisation. But what we've seen with today's government is a centralization we haven't seen of: a state that's running away, tax offices that are being laid down, a remote police reform – the examples are many. The left has been a champion of regional reform and municipal reform. Can the Left deepen what kind of new centralisation reforms Norway can see, if the right-wing government continues?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e619	There was an interesting introduction to the premises for the question from the representative Gharahkhani. To take a look back at that representative called the Greatness Time of the Workers' Party: I remember quite well – and I, as a trouser, remember very well – when Hans Rotmo pointed out here in the middle of the 1970s that we should centralize and centralize. Then it was the Workers' Party that was clear and seated in the driver's seat. The system state has, in many ways, been a characteristic of that batch, and still is. When I see today's version of the debate, you go completely open and want to reduce it, among other things. was awarded in the previous period, with regional centre grants, which are a strength for the districts to just counteract what Gharakhani calls a centralising effect. So that's where I think you'd have to read a little bit of the books that the Workers' Party gave back in the 1970s, where you'd get more centralization, if you wanted to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e626	The representative once again suggested that the combination of municipalities was the solution to everything. There's nothing new that we really disagree about it. The centre party is concerned that we should have a differentiated municipal structure adapted to geography and believes that it is a prerequisite for us to be able to reverse this centralisation policy that today's government has implemented. What's interesting is that the government-designated demographic committee, led by former Right-State Council Victor Norman, has now issued its report. They clearly state that bundling the municipality is an obstacle to a decentralisation policy. He says that clusters of small municipalities with good intermunicipal cooperation are a much better solution than this urban thinking, which leads to increased centralisation. We have to stop the merger if we're going to be able to stop the centralization. What is the comment on Victor Norman's conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e635	I have great respect for much of what former State Council Victor Norman has done and has come with. It has not been said that you need to agree with absolutely everything that comes from the NOU committee that the representative points to. I do not think that the combination of municipalities is the solution to everything, because we have far too many geographical variations here in the country, and I think that is to the extent that Greni is also aware of that. I believe, on the other hand, that in many ways this is also the fight for skills, and to a greater extent the fight for youth and their skills. 70 pst. by our young people today taking higher education. If we don't rig it so that we have attractive jobs in the countryside as well, as in the one I live in, I think we will quickly lose that fight. That's why it seems that the Center Party has moved away from looking at diversity, as they stood for earlier. There's a new policy where the Center Party wants less diversity, it wants today's government to have more of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e640	Municipalities are large managers of land and the environment, and now we are facing a major crisis, not only in terms of climate emissions, but also in terms of natural loss. There I perceive that the Left has been a good partner, at least before. What we see now is a government that will give the local authorities greater scope than before for building down nature, and the coastal zone and the open spaces, too, without having in place the map that should be able to map biodiversity or competence in the local government sector, which can give the local government representatives good advice not to put our important natural basis at risk. Therefore, SV in this setting promotes the need to set the necessary requirements for competence in the municipal sector in terms of environment, biodiversity and climate. Why is Left against it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e645	Much is good in what Andersen comes with here. As I used to say to the representative, I'm not religious when I say that I don't believe that community reunification is the solution to everything. However, I am reasonably sure that it will be possible to meet the demands that are being made at the end of the day, there is also a need to have a broader competence in the municipal sector. The representative, Andersen, has some memory; she was in favour of all sorts of proposals to make the local authorities able to take care of this in a better way, that is. some degree of community merger. So it's a little bit amazing. This is a little special, and I agree with Andersen's representative that we need to focus on biodiversity in the municipalities. I have been one of the local champions, among others. to avoid local wind turbines, which take a great deal of nature and biodiversity. I have unfortunately been a little alone about that. So yes, the Left insists that we have to keep the tab high in terms of biodiversity and nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e650	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e655	It's anti-choice, and it affects the tone of this hall. It's quite natural in an open democracy, but we're not going to watch out for black-and-white coloring and history stories about other parties ruining some of the things that are so fine with Norwegian democracy. We are also democratic leaders, and we are the country's elected national leaders, who must be expected to speak the truth about politics. By speaking the truth about, I mean not just the absence of direct lies, but trendy claims and absurd simplification of complex problems. Why do I bring this forward in a budget debate? It is simply because I seem to notice a more unfortunate trend in this area, and because we in the municipal committee are responsible for much of the democratic framework in the country, and because I am burning for good democracy. It doesn't come of itself. We have to live it. The way we live it in this room, it's labeled, and it's normative. The Stortinget must then not only play municipal government and be too detailed. We're going to talk about politics. It's like the opposition's going to be black-painting. And to be honest, the government parties would like to paint a beauties. When I've been a municipal politician for a lot of my adult life, I know that local politics is about rigid priorities – all the time. I was the rapporteur under varying governments, and the main picture remained stable. There were protests no matter who was in the government offices. I therefore feel a little uncomfortable when it is exaggerated with black paint and similar with a beautiful paint. Politics is serving leadership and housekeeping by the community's means. I've always tried to be a working politician with this in mind, but I'm not a prophet. Let me try a prediction of the future: no Norwegian government will ever promote a budget that will create unison jubilee in Kommune-Norway, and no government will ever promote a budget that the opposition, whether it is blue, red, yellow, green or violet, can boast of. To this budget was – and I will continue to try to be honest – my first reaction when I saw it: Yes, that's okay, but tight, sober, predictable and without room for big bets. The challenge number one may be that an increasing proportion of older people suggest that massive efforts need to be made, and this is also very important in the debate on district policy. How is the demography in the districts? We're in the middle of a pandemic management with the municipalities in the first line. The most important thing now is that the municipal wheels get to roll as much as possible as normal, even if nothing is normal. The predictable is even more important when the rest of life is unpredictable. That is why I am most pleased that the government provided predictable budget frameworks, and that the promises from this year were followed up. Municipalities shall be compensated for exceptional corona-related expenditure and for loss of income. I don't know how many times the government and I said it during the spring, summer and autumn, but it was repeated on the pulpit here today, that uncertainty. I am pleased that the government delivered at this point, and that Stortinget delivered it. I am pleased that the compensation scheme was based on the participation of the KS, and that it was in line with the leadership we gave in the municipal proposition treatment in our – a real compensation without being a redistribution between municipalities. In the municipal field, the government parties have a good dialogue with the Progress Party. Perhaps it is because the representative Njåstad has had the municipal shoes on, and did not completely forget them when he changed to big shoes. In any case, the municipal scheme was fine when we agreed on the distribution of the holiday funds, so that county municipalities that have gone ahead in the green shift are rewarded for it. It's both fair and forward-looking. The green shift must be stimulated by state financial instruments. It's worth going ahead of the green shift. We have no more than the time and the way, and then such schemes must stimulate correct and necessary investments. The continuation of the additional allocation to the ferries shall be so arranged as to allocate one third according to the ferries criteria in the cost key and two thirds for the ferries used by 2020. It is Christian People's Party pleased with. I am also pleased that we have strengthened specific schemes such as the top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive users in small municipalities with relatively many such services. The Christian People's Party's primary position here is that we should have preferred to reverse all the cuts. The rest of my post I'll come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e683	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e688	The Christian People's Party has had a good dialogue with the Advancement Party. It's interesting to hear when the Progress Party otherwise in public has broken up with both the Christian People's Party and the Left. But look up to all the billions – there were quite a number of billions of Christian People’s Party participated in spending extra in the budget negotiations that they in a good tone, I understand, have led with the Progress Party, as among others. reduction of alcohol taxes and others: why did the Christian People's Party not find any opportunity to reverse the system of resource-intensive services for municipalities, which costs about 300 million. kr, and which very many municipalities reported back would be a very tough challenge for them to solve in a otherwise very tight financial arrangement, which the Christian People's Party is involved in?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e693	It's not a very big public secret which is the primary point of view of the Christian People's Party in this matter. So in several previous budgetary negotiations, we have managed to reverse the cuts. I am the first to regret that we failed this time, but we fulfilled what we signaled in the revised national budget – that we should do something for the smallest municipalities. That's 55 million. kr. I'd like to have $300 million. NOK so I could reverse it. I would like to hang up, but I think it's done well with 4.2 pst. to achieve so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e698	The centre party has long been concerned that more and more people are becoming dependent on help to get the ends to meet. In particular, we are seeing a growth now after families have lost some or all of their income because of the corona. Local authorities report that more and more people are in need of social assistance, and volunteers operating food centres, etc. report significant increases in attendance. In the evening post of the harvest several central peoples of the Christian People's Party moved out and called out a warning for the local economy. They called for a local economy and schemes to provide families with security. The Christian People's Party rapporteur in Fromand, in the representative's own county, was among them, and he stressed that the local economy had been significantly weakened in the last two years. The opposition here today has a strong strengthening of the local economy. What is the Christian People’s Party’s message to the many municipalities that are now forced to reduce their services to the inhabitants as a result of the Christian People’s Party’s government participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e707	The message of the Christian People's Party is, of course, that we take what comes from outside, very seriously. One of the main concerns of this ongoing coronary apathy is in fact how this affects children and young people, and the situation of the people who are now losing their jobs. Yes, the Christian People's Party is part of government cooperation and has to deal with the framework of government cooperation. It's also about focusing on this, and I feel that the government does. And I feel that the Center Party is pouring out of a Sarepta jar, which the government unfortunately does not have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e714	Sarepta's jar is the government that has. There is no previous government that has ever had as much money at its disposal as this government. In addition, this budgetary agreement has chosen to spend more than 7 billion. to reduce the charges on sugar, snuff and alcohol. 7 B.C.E. kr is about as much as SV spends on strengthening the community economy – that is, for the elderly, for user-driven personal assistance to the most resource-intensive, and for children to have enough teachers, and that there are cultural opportunities and good communities. What makes the Christian People's Party think it's a good coalition to be in, where you choose cheap alcohol, snuff and sugar in front of more money to hire absolutely necessary staff in, among other things. care and schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e721	It's a statement that we like it. It is no public secret what the Christian People's Party believes about reducing various charges. But it's a price we have to pay to keep the aid rate, to keep the number of quota refugees. And everyone in this room knows what it's like to negotiate. This is no Christian People's Party can go high on the track and say is a victory. The representative of Andersen is very right about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e726	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e731	2020 was a challenging year. The corona pandemic has affected us all and has had major consequences for the Norwegian economy, industries and sectors throughout the country. As we return to normal, hopefully, we will see that the coronary crisis has helped to strengthen the major and long-term challenges facing Norway and the world before the crisis. We are becoming less and less active per pensioner. Oil revenues are going to go down. The budgets will be tighter. We need to achieve ambitious climate targets and sustainability targets. The inhabitants live longer, and that is good, but they also expect more – naturally enough. We need to finance more for less. To take Norway out of the crisis and at the same time meet the challenges of the future, we need to create more and include more. The State budget for 2021 will contribute to this. In the budget for the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, we give priority to measures that facilitate living local democracy, strong districts, modernisation of Norway and safe and good housing conditions. In order to enable municipalities to provide good services both during and after the corona crisis, the government proposes that the local government should generate a growth in free income of 2 billion. NOK 2021. This means that the free income of the local government sector will be around 412 billion. NOK 2021. Of the growth of the free revenues of 2 billion next year, municipalities will receive a growth in free income of SEK 1.6 billion. kr, while county councils are growing by 0.4 billion. kr. The growth is in line with what was announced in the municipal bill. The government will include more, giving everyone the opportunity to participate in working and social life. That's why it's 100 million. kr of the growth of the free income of municipalities based on child and mental health concerns of young people. The government will also create a greener future by facilitating business to create more green jobs. That's why it's 100 million. kr of the growth of the free income of county councils, justified by the use of low- and zero-emission solutions for ferries and speedboats. When we take into account demographics, pension costs and investment in growth, there will be an increase of 700 million action spaces. NOK 2021. It's higher than what's been in the last four years. It has been said several times from this pulpit that last year was the worst municipal settlement in 15 years. So that's not right. We're not going back any further than when the red-greens crashed until there was negative growth in the free income of the municipalities. The government's proposals for the government budget next year are based on government policy over time. The free revenues of the local government sector have been strengthened by about 35 billion. kr in the years 2013 to 2019, which shows the government’s clear prioritisation of municipalities over several years. The number of municipalities in ROBEK is now at a very low level. When we took power in 2013, the number of ROBEK municipalities was triple. Moreover, throughout the pandemic, the government has been very clear that we are going to set up for the municipalities. We have done so through several action packages with additional transfers and financial measures this year of more than 20 billion. kr. Of this, 18.5 billion is. kr justified by the outbreak of the virus. At the top comes increased room for action as a result of lower price and salary increases. It is impossible to determine the exact impact of the outbreak on municipalities, but the government is following developments closely and will continue to take action when necessary. The government has also set up a KS working group to identify the economic impact on the local government sector. There is agreement between the KS and the State that the compensation provided by the State corresponds well to the additional expenditure of the local government sector and the minor income resulting from the corona. I'm glad. However, careful monitoring of the situation is important, as there are considerable differences between municipalities. It's going to be paid closer to 1.8 billion. First Friday to the municipalities, mainly in beauty treatments, to cover up the local variations as well as possible. Government acquires goods and services for 560 billion. kr every year. How we spend that money is very important to how innovative, green and digital we become in the public sector, and it also affects what kind of business we get. It has something to say if we only buy goods and services from established suppliers, or if we also dare to invest in some new start-up companies. The government continues its efforts to digitise and modernise Norway by facilitating start-up enterprises to contribute innovative solutions to the public sector. The government therefore proposes 7.9 million. kr – a small but important amount – for a programme that will facilitate the purchase of innovative solutions from small entrepreneurs. The government has put forward a government budget to take Norway out of the crisis and at the same time meet the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e761	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e767	Let me start with today's good news, which I read in my local style, Avisa Nordland. It says that there is zero infection in Bodø. So it's day number 18 without infection in the county capital, which is an important ‘travel hub’ for both the Nordic countries and the whole of Northern Norway. It's not random that there's zero infection. There is a result of hard work and a strong and clear follow-up of health care policies and local efforts to test, isolate, trace and use quarantine where necessary. We have done well in Norway because we have had both a government and a big one that has been on, professionally good advice from health authorities and a strong local effort, which many speakers here today have put forward – the efforts of the municipalities under the pandemic. The councils have previously said that he wants to stand up for the municipalities, he repeated it even in his post today, to fight the corona. Bodø Municipality applied for a refund of 37 million. NOK 5 million. kr from the county of beauty products. Is it to set up for the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e776	Yes, we have been clear that we are going to set up for the municipalities, and that still applies. There is no doubt that, as I said, we have followed up that promise by over 20 billion. kr in aid to the local government sector and various measures up to this year, plus wage and price increases. In October, when the working group we have with KS presented its report, the government's compensation was significantly above what KS itself thought was the real cost. But there's a lot of variation, and that's why we have beauty products. As I said, it's going to be paid closer to 1.8 billion. First Friday in just a few beauties to the municipalities in order to remedy the local differences, as there are considerable differences between municipalities. I am very happy to hear that Bodø has managed to keep the infection down for 18 days. Then, of course, it's incredibly important that people don't come billing from Oslo and bring them up there. I hope, of course, the representative will bring it with him now that he is going on a Christmas holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e783	I guess the Council of State now thought I wouldn't bring me the infection when I'm going home on Christmas holidays, because I'm going to go home on Christmas holidays. From a joke to a serious point of view – I agree with the Council of State that there are major local differences. I've used Bodø Municipality as an example now, not to knock political coins on it, but because it's an important test piece. I and the Council of State have stood on these interlocutors several times during the year, and we have discussed, and the Council of State has been very clear that you have to stand up for the municipalities. Now there's a test piece. This was a case where there is quite a difference because there is an extraordinary effort in an important ‘travel hub’ in Northern Ireland, where there is a great risk of significant infection if you lose control, as I have seen in some municipalities. If it is now at the beginning of the budget procedures of the local authorities that the first test piece, when the money is paid, shows that you cannot cover the documented expenses you have, it will be very serious – not only for the municipality of Bodø, but also for the nation. Can the Council of State guarantee that the Municipality of Bodø will be reimbursed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e794	We've always been clear that we're going to set up municipalities to cover the additional expenses and the minor income they have as a result of the corona. Of course, this also applies to the municipality of Bodø. I think we should recognise that this is a difficult situation for the municipalities, but also for the county officials, who have direct contact with each municipality about the actual costs they have. There are also large differences in what the different municipalities consider to be additional costs and what they do not consider to be additional costs. Here there are great variations around the country. We're trying to hit as best we can. The working group will work on 2020 until April next year, so there will be plenty of opportunity to come back. But we're trying best to meet the needs of the municipalities, in the current year, of which the large payment that comes first Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e803	A lot of posts today have been about Right's spokesman in Bø, Sture Pedersen. It's a saying that a fast gets excited to meet, and it creates extraordinary results. He has managed to shape two big debates just this cottage with Korona – it is well done – both the district debate and the municipal budget in the state budget. It is impressive in itself to be able to set the agenda from Bø in the Vesterålen in the way he has done. I've recorded that his party, Right, has an engagement, that sometimes it tries to say that this must not be done by others, that it creates arrangements that are such that it applies to Bø, but not to the others. I note that the Progress Party applauds much more strongly, visits him, applauds this grip more clearly and encourages other municipalities to do the same, because we want the entire wealth tax to live, and we believe that this is a good way to get the debate on a track where it is about facilitating private ownership. So my question is: does the Council of State think this is a good idea, something that others should do, or does it hope that only Bø will carry this out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e808	I think it is positive that rapporteurs around the country are creative and try new approaches to creating activity and growth in their municipalities. The grip that Sture Pedersen has done in Bø challenges our income system. This system has been stuck for a long time, and there are no municipalities that have done anything like this in decades – I think we need 30-40 years back, at least, before we find any examples of this. Therefore, it was very difficult to understand the consequences of that decision when it was taken in December 2019. What is obvious was that Bø himself had expected a loss, and that loss they must bear. With regard to the loss caused by the lack of clarity of the legislation and the framework, we are helping to set up, while at the same time reducing a sample to look at the entire income system for the municipalities, including this issue, so that in the future we will have a system that I believe is clearer and more predictable than what we now have, because it is difficult to understand the consequences of this system. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e813	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e818	The Central Party fully agrees with Kommune-Norge and KS that it is hard for local politicians to finance all services and create good communities. The council repeats and repeats that it's the municipal economy of the time, but that won't be true for that reason. The starting point is changes in tax access and other elements that have saved many municipalities, including when financing new standards and requirements. When the five largest municipalities are taken out of the accounts in 2019, the figures are quite different for the other municipalities. There it is very bad. The government's budget proposal was different. So you're having fun. And we're deeply concerned about the possibility that local politicians have of providing good services, especially now that we're in the middle of a pandemic. Indebtedness growth has never been as high as it is now, and therefore, unless you are happy again, the operating result is likely to be well below the recommended level next year – corona or one. What makes the Council of State think that municipalities should use up funds to cover the lack of transfers from the government, because that's what you're bragging about, that you have so much on funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e827	It is not that the municipal sector only has a lot of funds, they have also had good operating results for many years. If we go back to the last year when the representative's party was in government, the operating surplus for the municipalities was 1.2 pst. It's never been so low with this government. On the contrary, there has been solid operating surplus. So the representative is absolutely right that some of it is due to increased tax revenue. That's absolutely correct, but increased tax revenue is also income, I just remember it. So I think the description given by the situation for the local economy is not correct. Yes, the municipalities always want more money, but it is such that they have had solid profits. They now have 67 billion. kr on book in the municipal sector, against 30 br. kr in 2013. They've been able to build up this buffer just because they've had good results, and that, of course, makes them better off in uncertain times. But there's no doubt that we're going to set up for next year too, and we're providing a large room for action in free income for 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e834	First, it is the Stortinget that has pressed forward these major action packages to the municipalities. The council says he's afraid the coronary crisis is reinforcing the problems, and so am I, especially the increased differences, and one area that people are totally dependent on, is having a place to live and to live safely. And I've asked the Council of State if, among other things, The housing support scheme, and I have received a response from the state council that is quite unambiguous: it concludes that fewer people get, and those who get get, get on average less of their boutes covered, and they have less income now than in 2013. Then my question is, will it reinforce the social differences, or will it increase the social differences when the boutet poisons increase, the incomes of people go down, less housing support and they get paid less of their own housing costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e843	For an average family of children receiving housing support, the boute poisons have increased by 34 pst. since 2013. In the same period, the average housing allowance has increased by 38 pst. It is therefore not right for the representative to make it clear that, when it comes to housing support, everyone has suffered worse from this government. Then we fully agree that everyone deserves a safe home, everyone needs a safe home. We have just put forward a new social housing policy strategy to look at how we can contribute to helping more disadvantaged people enter the housing market. We are particularly concerned about how families with children living under poor conditions can get safer living conditions. We want to help as many as possible into the ordinary rental market. So starting loans are still going to be a very important tool, and we've set a loan framework of 13 billion. kr on start-up loans next year, which will be important to help them. But in terms of housing support, we've also set up a separate selection, an expert committee, to look at housing support and look at how we can make it even better and hit the people who really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e853	It was recently known that the company Schindler, which has fired two principal trustees, has been awarded a contract worth about 90 million. kr for lifts for the new government quarter. 27 of 44 lifts are part of construction stage 1 which is being processed today. The LO has encouraged Schindler to cancel the termination. Can the Council of State guarantee that the new Government Quartet will not let sub-contractors engaged in trade union snuffing and who use detachment as an instrument against trustees in a conflict, cf. the special protection against dismissal of the chosen trustees?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e860	I can guarantee that state-building will follow the rules of public procurement law, and we are, of course, very concerned with having the seriousness of all state-owned construction projects, and that, in particular, the State has a responsibility to ensure that there are clean conditions. With regard to this specific case, State Building was not aware that there was a work dispute at the time the contract was awarded, as far as I know. However, as far as I remember, the representative has also asked me a written question about this, so I guess he will then get a more detailed answer from me on this particular matter. But as far as I remember, it was not known that there was a work dispute at the time of the agreement on this delivery, in March 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e867	Then the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e872	The government wants living communities and growth throughout the country. We're working to create more and include more. The industry in District Norway has been doing well for several years, but the situation of the corona puts many companies under heavy pressure. The State budget for 2021 will strengthen the districts by giving Norwegian business life more legs to stand on and ensure that more people return to work. Government rates on growth-enhancing tax relief and good health care. We focus on education, research, digitisation and innovation. We have almost doubled the budget for transport in our government period. Both people and goods come forward faster and safer than before. Overall, the government proposes 46 billion. kr to instruments to be specifically supported on developments in District Norway. This is a growth of 3 pst. An important measure is the differentiated employer’s fee, which amounts to 16.7 billion. kr. The government has proposed 1.3 billion. to targeted regional and regional policy schemes. Over 1 billion. kr are for schemes designed to contribute to the strengthening of the growth and development capacity of business. It hits both the tourism industry and other vulnerable industries, and it contributes to the creation of new business ideas and the development of jobs. The government has already started follow-up to the District Message that Storting has been dealing with. We follow up on pilot projects around the country with local variants of the State House. We set up systems of competence pilots, which link business needs to regional training provision. We have announced that the government is now developing three new strategies for coastal, inland and small towns and agglomerations, respectively, to strengthen districts’ ability to secure settlement and create new jobs. Good broadband and mobile networks are fundamental. That is why I am very pleased that Norway, together with Denmark, was recently nominated by the European Index to have the best networks in Europe. Nevertheless, the government is proposing 264 million. kr for the development of broadband, where we particularly want to give priority to the scattered areas. In order to contribute to sustainable welfare societies for future generations, we must continue to modernise and streamline the public sector, and we must facilitate the creation of value in the private sector. Here digitisation has a key role to play. Therefore, the government is now taking a force on the digitisation field. We're proposing a record 1.5 billion. kr to new, and to further develop existing digitisation measures for next year. We facilitate private value creation and measures to promote efficiency and quality in public service production. Together with KS, we launched the first digitalisation strategy of history for the entire public sector. Here we are now giving priority to the work on the seven life events. The establishment of the Data Factory shall contribute to the development of new business opportunities by small and medium-sized enterprises, and Norwegian participation in the European digital programme will provide Norwegian enterprises and research environment with access to skills and resources in artificial intelligence, supercomputers, ICT security and advertised digital competences. The government aims to facilitate the development of language, culture and society. Total appropriations for Sami purposes have increased steadily over several years. The draft budget for next year includes, inter alia: funds for newly built Saemien Sitje, for Beaivvás and for Sami secondary and reindeer schools. We know that these projects mean a lot to the Sami community. Norwegian policies towards national minorities are based on the principle of equivalency and non-discrimination. The new high-density report on national minorities is now being presented at every moment. It will be the first major issue of national minorities to be presented in Norway in 20 years. The government budget proposal for 2021 facilitates living communities and growth throughout Norway. We support our ambition to have the best digital services in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e893	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e898	Now the government has decided to cover the loss that Bø kommune receives and that they receive as a result of their own decision to cut their own income. At the same time as the Council of State approves and supports what the municipality of Bø has done and the rapporteur in the municipality of Bø has fought through, the Council of State states that no other municipality will be able to receive the same assistance. I would like to ask the Council of State: what is the reason why no other municipality will get the same help as Bø gets, if they deliberately cut their own income?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e905	As a district minister, I am very pleased with the rapporteurs who are engaged and who are trying to turn every stone to make the municipality their best possible for its citizens. Facilitating investment, facilitating people to move to the municipality, is important. That's why I'm very happy that the Workers' Party in Bø and Tom Tobiassen say that removing the property tax is a good working party policy, because it leads to creating more jobs. Therefore, the Right and Government also have a slightly different approach than the Workers' Party. I see a message coming out from Youngstorget about what the party is going to think: that one should go out and be against the property tax. Then we see that the Labour Party locally does something else. I also find it interesting to see how the Workers' Party uses every opportunity to overcome local self-democracy, which we also see in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e912	Yes then, Youngstorget and we in the big group of the Workers' Party are in complete agreement, and there was no special message either. But it's good to see that VG, Dagbladet and some other commentators actually agree with both the Youngstorget and the large-scale group of the Workers' Party that the government is now involved in this emergency aid for tax havens is very unwise. Then it's just that I'm also very happy with all the rapporteurs and regional and municipal politicians who are fighting for their municipality and who will do the best for their citizens and the best for their business life. But I don't get the answer to the question, so I get to ask again: what is unclear in the income system when a municipality chooses to cut voluntary income? What are the mechanisms here pointed out by the Council of State, which means that Bø will get emergency aid, but that no other municipality can get the same help?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e919	The representative, Mr Lauvås, also presented the responsible Council of State for Astrup, and I am here to defend the budget of the district minister. But I want to say that I am surprised that the Workers' Party is not more concerned with raising ideas that come locally to strengthen the districts. I know that Youngstorget is an effective electoral campaigner, and the fact that the Workers' Party is more concerned with what the commentators in Oslo write, than with their local politicians around the country, says well about the situation the Workers' Party is in right now. From the Right and Government side, we are very busy talking to local politicians of different colors. On Friday I was with Isaac Veierud Busch from the Workers' Party, who is rapporteur at Røros. We had an unusually interesting conversation about proposals he thinks we can help to strengthen Røros, strengthen the mountain communities, strengthen the interior and the rest of the Municipality of Norway. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e926	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e931	According to the Prime Minister, the Council of State has overall coordination responsibility for the government's regional policy and responsibility for the impact of the various departments' proposals on opportunities throughout the country. In particular, the State is responsible for the location of state jobs. One of the proposals contained in the State budget is to organise a national office for the House Rental Committee, i.e. those dealing with disputes between tenants and owners. This office can be put into practice anywhere. The government's objective is to place state jobs outside the largest cities as far as possible, even if the statistics so far show the opposite. What is the Council of State’s assessment of the majority’s proposal that the National Bureau of the House Liaison Committee should be located outside the main press areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e941	It's quite right, as the representative says, that it's my job to coordinate that the district concerns are taken care of by every department and every state council. It's a new grip that the government has now taken. In terms of both the composition of samples being set up and also in every case that may have a negative – or, to some extent, a positive – impact on the districts, it is my government's task to coordinate it and to illustrate the overall impact it can have on the districts. The government is concerned that government jobs are to be located outside Oslo and the large central eastern municipalities. There are more state jobs in almost all states today than it was in 2013, and we now also see from the SSB that [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e948	My question was whether you would make sure that this Houselord Committee would be located outside the big cities. The government has moved out jobs to Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger, and that's important and correct, but it's not district policy. Now it is time that we also use the relocation of state jobs in district policy, and therefore my question is: can the Council of State guarantee that this new office will at least be left outside the largest cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e953	I can't stand here and guarantee where it's located. As I said, we are concerned that new jobs should be located outside the big cities. That's also why we now come up with our urban and urban strategy. We want to build power centres outside the big cities, which also have skilled jobs, which have public jobs and jobs in the private sector, and which it can be attractive to receive jobs both in the private sector and in the public sector. That is why we are also testing pilots with local sizes of the state's house around Norway now, precisely because the state's workplaces where you sit alone – often there are very few – are going to get together, have a working community, work together and become stronger, both in terms of their skills, and also in order to attract more jobs to those places outside the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e960	The last time I had a line to the council, it went on ferries. Now I'm going to move over to something that's not that far from here, easy boats. In the county income system, there is an own system for how to deliver money to county municipalities for boats. In the past it was that one gave money close to what expenses one had on the boats, but then left one about a few years ago. When the county councils leave boat routes, they get a hold of the money themselves, but we now see that many red-green county councils are district enemies and set off boat routes. Fortunately, the government has announced that they will look at a new model and submit it to the municipal bill that comes to spring. My question is: Will the district minister take the initiative that it will no longer be profitable for county municipalities to shut down boat routes and thus weaken the supply in the districts? We see this, among other things. in Rogaland, where there is a major problem when the county takes such initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e967	This is also a matter that lies under the Council of Astrups, but as a district minister, I am very concerned that we need to have effective transportation in the districts, because if not, it is impossible to work and live there. That's why I'm very pleased with the sky-high bet that's been in the last few years, when the government, not least thanks to the Progress Party, has had a huge investment on both the road and the track, but also on the boat. I am very pleased that we in this state budget support and make proposals of 100 million. kr for the phase-in of low and zero emission ferries. I think it's important to make it possible for the county councils to invest in green boat transport. We put funds on the table so that the Hurtigruten can have several sailings from Bergen up to the Kirkenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e972	I thank you for your answer. I am aware that the details are with the Council of Astrups, but the district challenges are absolutely with us all. What's a little ironic now is that we're being criticized for centralizing from Oslo, but we see how the Center Party rules in the different municipalities, no one centralizes more than they do. In Rogaland they set down boat routes, as we see. In my home country, Westland, one with the Center Party in the head has gone in to remove a boat library that is very popular, very decentralised. In addition, you can see that they set school lines. Are the state councils concerned about the centralization policy one sees, with the Central Party at the head, in Norwegian county municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e977	Yes, it worries me that there is at least a very long way between life and learning. When you listen to the Center Party and what they say, it's often the opposite that happens in the municipalities. As a district minister, as I said earlier, it is absolutely essential that we have good infrastructure in the districts. That is why we are many who work closely to ensure good transport services in the districts, both the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, and not least the Minister for Transport, of course. We are more from the government working to ensure that both people and businesses have good and efficient transport years and means of communication to get to and from work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e982	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e987	Strong communities and small differences make Norway Norway Norway. The municipal sector, the municipalities we have, and those who work there, are the very foundations of the small and large communities that exist all over the country. It is the municipalities that are responsible for some of the most important services that exist in people's lives. It is the municipalities that are responsible for services as large and small in the city and the built user every day. It's the kids who go to school and kindergarten. It is the elderly who depend on being able to live in a nursing home, or need help so that they can stay at home as far as possible. Newly-baked parents use the services at the health centre. Businesses and residents want to develop their communities. Everyone needs a municipality that provides good quality services for everyone. For this reason, the Labour Party strengthens the budget of the municipalities in our alternative draft state budget by 3.15 billion. kr, because we have ambitions to create an even better society. It is the Stortinget and the government that provide the framework for the development of the service offer in the municipalities. If we see the municipal economy last year, in the year and next year in the context, the bulk of the population's contribution to the greater well-being of municipalities is quite poor. If we go to the government's own number, they show an average growth of 0.3 pst. for the period 2018 to 2021. The tight financial structure for the municipalities we've seen in recent years will continue for the next year. The course is the same. The financial structure of the municipal sector for the current year is the worst in the last 15 years. The system for the next year continues in the same direction. This government does not equip the municipalities for the challenges they face in the age of change. It is climate change, which requires considerable effort, urbanisation and demography, which poses major challenges either for the municipality of growth or for the municipality of relocation, and there are major changes as a result of the digitisation of society. On top of it all, we've got a pandemic they're going to deal with. When I hear the representative Trellevik talk about the growth of the free revenues of 2 billion. kr as a fantastic strengthening of the well-being of the municipalities, so it is not at stake. One hundred million. kr is, as explained by the Council of State, justified by a specific commitment to mental health. That's good. That's 100 million. kr to low-emission solutions. It is also good, but the Labour Party has twice as much money in our proposal. What the representative doesn't take with him is that it's 1.1 billion. kr which is the additional cost of changes in demographics, but not pensions, as the representative said, because it is added. In the government's table, there's a What you didn't include there are the pension costs, which increase by 600 million. kr next year. Then all of a sudden we're down in a 100-million-dollar action room. kr. Then the representative elegantly jumped over the fact that the costs of the municipalities were tight enough to limit the amounts of resource-intensive services by 300 million. kr. There are several examples. Then you're on a minusbudget, not a growth budget. I am happy, and I have said that several times from this pulpit, because it is record few – now I heard the Council of State so very few, so it is possible that we have had a small increase – municipalities on the ROBEK list. That's good, because that means that several municipalities have control of their own economy and development. The problem is that you can't spend money you have on books to hire people. The representative, Trellevik, is talking about that it's 60 billion. kr on book. Is that a lot of money? Yeah, isolated is 60 billion. NOK 60 000 million. kr, a lot of money – that is, for example. half of a North Norway runway — but only two months of operation of Kommune-Norway. One cannot hire a nurse for money that way. Not only is it bad and a little wise policy, but with the new municipal law it is also directly illegal. It cannot be that the representative Trellevik believes that Norwegian municipalities should finance their operations for the money they have saved. There are also large differences between municipalities. Who's got money on the book? Well, it's the five largest municipalities, that use under-exploitation, that build up fund reserves. There are big differences in Municipality-Norway here. For the Labour Party, we have greater ambitions for well-being in the future. We want to strengthen the possibilities of municipalities. That's why not only do we have growth in free resources for municipalities, but we also have a wide range of earmarked schemes that show how we want to change people's everyday lives, provide better services. We can't fix everything in a year. We've never done that, it's not the social-democratic method. We build rocks on rocks, but we show a clear difference and a clear direction as an alternative to the government of Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1012	Our most important task now, is to take Norway safely out of the crisis and at the same time meet the challenges facing us in the future. We're going to do this by creating more, including more, and making sure that no one falls outside. We must continue to modernise and streamline the public sector. We need to make new jobs and make everyday life easier for most people. The State budget for 2021 is just going to help get more people back to work and make the business more accessible. Norway needs a green and good conversion. Technology used in smart ways makes it possible to be competitive in the high-cost country of Norway. The Covid situation has shown us the potential of digitisation. We've delayed the threshold, and it's expanded our understanding of the possibilities also for the districts, so that people can live and work where they want to. These positive effects of a demanding situation after all we have to take care of, and we have to develop them further. Digitalisation is an important tool. For this reason, the government proposes to grant more than 1.5 billion. kr to new digitisation measures in the State budget for 2021. In order to help companies get back into business all over the country, and that the unemployed come back to work, the government also proposes to grant about 1.35 billion. schemes to contribute to the growth of business and to the well-functioning provision of services in the districts. Digital infrastructure reduces distances. With 5G, we're going to achieve higher speed, more capacity and less delays. It is also an important commitment that we have safe and robust transport links across the country. The government here suggests 264.1 million. kr for broadband access in areas without a commercial basis for expansion and 125,3 million. kr in favour of tele-security and preparedness. In 2019, a total investment of 12.2 billion was made. kr in durable means of operation for electronic communications and networks. This is a success story. It is historic, but it is also absolutely necessary for Norway to meet in the future. The development of autonomy, Big Tech and artificial intelligence will demand that we see the need for a holistic infrastructure, so that we can meet both expectations and opportunities, and that this can grow proportionally. Innovation and digital development have an increased potential through cooperation and knowledge exchange. The government has started work in several areas to ensure the desired development both in the public and in the business world. I have high expectations for the EU's new digital change and use programme for innovative digital technologies in society and business. Digital Europe Programme, where the government proposes that we use 56.2 million. kr in order to ensure full Norwegian participation, is very important and has a high potential for our business with small and medium-sized enterprises. We just have it, we have a proud business, but this business is composed of small and medium-sized enterprises, and they've proven resilient before, and they're going to show it again. A strong, green business is important to our welfare development. When it's created more, we can include more, and it will in the long run ensure that we get a community where no one falls outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1033	The Labour Party has an offensive investment in housing in the year’s budget – both financially and with a number of proposals. We have promoted 30 measures for new housing policies. It is a public responsibility that everyone should be able to have a good quality dwelling. The public sector, both state and municipality, will contribute to the construction of adequate housing in all parts of the country. In Norway, four out of five own dwellings are owned. With current housing prices, it is difficult to get into the housing market and buy their own home. Municipalities should secure land cover. It is easier to control development if it is built on municipal plots. Local authorities have several tools to facilitate the construction of good quality housing for all. The working party wants the Husbank schemes to be used more actively. The State shall facilitate this. The Workers' Party will strengthen the local economy and thus give municipalities bigger muscles to realize owner-occupied housing for more people. This allows municipalities to strengthen the management of construction in terms of both resources and empowerment, to strengthen housing offices so that more people living in municipal housing can have the opportunity to own their own housing, and to test out different projects that can provide new roads into the housing market. The Labour Party will do more to support municipalities in local management of the housing market and urban and local development. The toolbox must then come forward, and we must actively contribute to a planning and building law that allows municipalities the right to regulate the form of accommodation in residential projects. The regionalisation of different metropolitan cities in Norway will contribute to the lifting of neighbourhoods and to the reduction of exclusion, including child poverty and unemployment. Good cooperation between the State and the municipality, where efforts to increase employment and good educational outcomes for young people and community activities are strengthened, leads to smaller differences and fewer vulnerable neighbourhoods where poor living conditions are inherited. The Labour Party has a housing policy investment of 170 million. In addition to the government's proposal in our alternative budget, and a sharp increase in the Bank's loan framework of 5 billion. kr. Our proposals in the residential sector in this year's budget can be divided into four initiatives: We will give more opportunities to enter the housing market and thus counteract inequality in the housing market by strengthening the Husbank loan framework, by increasing the housing aid by 75 million. kr, by establishing test schemes to help people enter the housing market and by giving priority to 5 million. kr for the preparation of the rental methodology for own use. We want to facilitate the construction of more dwellings by introducing government interest compensation schemes for municipal land purchases for 20 million. kr. We want to strengthen and expand the area effort by 35 million. kr. We want to investigate changes in the law relating to the ability of municipalities to determine the form of provision in housing projects. Furthermore, we want a more environmentally friendly construction industry. We can do that by increasing the interest rebate to municipalities with loans for green investment, and by taking greater account of climate in housing policy. We want a good living environment. That is why, every year since 2013, we have strengthened the budgets for the government's regional policy. Good and stable living conditions can be achieved by increasing the lift allowance so that older people can live longer in owner-occupied dwellings, and we can do so by restoring housing in the districts. The housing market is driven by people's investment strategies rather than what should be a good place to live. Now we have to take responsibility. This is not a sustainable development of housing policy. Now is the time to lift housing policy as a generation responsibility and as a necessary solidarity project. It doesn't hold that we help our own children – not everyone has a parent bank that can set up. That is why we refer to our 30 proposals, which show a willingness to have an offensive housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1073	We're going to Christmas, the budget debates in Stortinget are among the last big work we have before Christmas. Families and individuals in our entire country go into Christmas this year with different expectations and different thoughts of the year behind us, and what comes before us – some with gratitude for the fact that the year has gone well despite Korona and other challenges, others with sorrow and concern for the loved ones who have been hard hit by the crisis we are facing. Many families and individuals are afraid of their jobs and jobs. How tough it is to get out of a job that gives both life, work and social relationships, I don't think a person knows until he or she stands in the middle of it. This year, many families have experienced what it means. This makes you both humble and grateful for the work done in both state, state and municipality, as well as in business, to secure our welfare services and to take Norway out of the corona crisis. It is also the primary task of the government and our budget to ensure a high level of infection protection while addressing the challenges facing our country in both the short and long term. It gives us a double responsibility in budgetary work this year. We need to get people back to work, get businesses back on track all over the country, and we need to have more legs on to cope with the social change we're in to facilitate a greener future and a more sustainable welfare society. And we have to include more in working and social life. It commits, and it's a perspective we also have to include in the municipal debate. I am pleased that the draft budget for next year is naughty, while the government is committed to providing the municipalities financially with good services both during and after the corona crisis. I would like to draw up a few themes that have not been raised in the debate so far. The first one is about the inclusion dungeon. When one in five workers are out of work, follow-up becomes important. The government's commitment to improving the possibilities of entering the labour market if a person has a CV hole or a disability is an example of follow-up. There is no quick fix, but requires targeted work over time. Four departments seem to have done the 5-percentage mark. It's more than last year, but most have a long way to go. The initiative on the training programme also gives results, and I am pleased that the government is following up this initiative and asking for action plans on how the departments will achieve the goal of inclusion. My hope is that the municipalities and county councils will follow up this work in their organisations. The second theme I would like to highlight here concerns the involvement of children and the mental health of young people. The 100 million. kr of the growth of the free income of the municipalities to which this is to be applied means a great deal. We are concerned that more students should complete secondary education and not fall from the education cycle. This year under the corona, we know that many young people have had an extra hard time. We will also follow the child and youth mental health escalation plan, which was dealt with in the Stortinget in January 2020. Then these means are needed. Finally, this fall we have heard a lot from the opposition about the follow-up of the government to the economic situation of the municipalities under the corona. Then I find it interesting to note that in the context of the budget debate in my own municipality, Kristiansand – as it was referred to in the Fädreland friend – the Labour Party rapporteur showed that the tax input had become better than one had thought, that the financial income had not fallen as it looked for a while, and also the central measures from the right-wing government received a slightly positive report from the Labour Party rapporteur, wrote the Fädreland friend. "I must be so honest and say that the compensation from the government and the Stortinge has become better than we feared," said our rapporteur. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1090	Kindergartens, schools, elderly care and health care are important services in people's everyday lives, and therefore the most important thing we can spend the community's money on. In order to expand and strengthen these services, we need to give priority to a strong and predictable local economy, because it is in the municipalities that people live and live their lives. Therefore, the Workers' Party has for seven years proposed more money to the municipalities than the government. About 23 billion. kr more than the government we have proposed. It had raised the welfare of the municipalities. According to the government, the economic space in the municipal sector is increasing next year. The problem is that costs are increasing more than income. Local authorities receive increased pension costs, resource-intensive services are becoming more expensive, and according to KS, the nursery code is underfunded. The KS budget survey shows that budget work in municipalities is becoming increasingly demanding. Over half of the municipalities say it's more demanding this year than last year. In the past eight years, there has never been more than 15 pst. by the municipalities, the budget has become less demanding than the previous year. We can certainly see that the last state budgets do not make the job easier for our local elected representatives. The result is a weakening of welfare and an increase in the difference between the city and the country. The working party has greater ambitions for better quality in well-being, care and school. The teachers, the nurses, the health professionals and all the others who work in the municipality are the first line in our welfare services. The time has come to strengthen the community, not weaken it. The local economy needs to be strengthened. In the state budget for 2021, the Workers' Party proposes to strengthen the municipal sector by nearly 3.5 billion. kr. In addition, there are several initiatives that will strengthen and improve the provision of services provided by municipalities to citizens. In my home municipality, Gran, for example, it would. given 6.2 million. kr more with our alternative state budget. I can comfort the municipal minister that they had come along well. If there are people living in the whole country, it must be possible to have services that make it possible. The income system of municipalities is brilliant. It is our main regional welfare policy tool across the country. It should ensure a level playing field for good welfare services wherever you live in Norway. The system takes into account the different municipalities, with different geography and population composition and much more. This is an example of a differentiated regional policy. I notice that the district minister has now found that she is going to divide District Norway into two. The reason is that Norway is diverse and that we cannot treat the districts as one. This should be the starting point of the targeted district policy. The problem is we're not treating District Norway as one today. The income system is an example of that, and there are many other things. The differentiated employer’s fee is recognised as Norway’s main regional policy instrument. It divides Norway into seven zones, not two. There is a broad consensus to maintain the scheme, but it has not been given that the scheme will be continued as at present. In 2021, the government will negotiate with the EU and ESA to maintain the scheme. In particular, municipal mergers have made this more complicated. The district minister’s most important job in 2021 is therefore to ensure that Norway is not forced to change the employer’s tax. We've experienced that before. The regional development funds enable municipalities to meet the challenges they face locally. Therefore, they are well-suited to ensure differentiated and adapted rural policies. These funds also contribute to more jobs in rural areas. Several jobs are putting workers first. However, when government cuts the regional development funds that can be used to sharpen local conditions, the possibility of new jobs is reduced. It serves neither the districts nor the workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1115	The following speakers have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1120	The consequences of the pandemic will be great, and the worst will go out on those who already have the least. People need security where they live. A country with work and residence throughout the country is the foundation of a strong community and of our common identity. We now see cuts in school services, line closures, cuts in collective, ferry and fast boat services, increased fares and postponement of tunnel requirements. That's now 60 pst. greater risk of death on a country road than on a national road. In addition, most of the counties are in the middle of a merger process. They have received new tasks that are not fully financed. The municipal and county liabilities per capita have doubled. But the government parties tell us about another reality here: Taxes for those who have the most from before, and privatisation, solve everything. Regardless of the pandemic, the entrepreneurial industry is struggling in large parts of the country, both with economics, with recruitment, innovation and predictability. There will be a shortage of 30 000 skilled workers in 2030. They're asking for a mission, not money. By providing additional funds to municipalities and counties, businesses and employees can get through the pandemic and be given security – by being entrusted with investment there. In addition, the government should now override state policies by introducing character-based inputs. It is a centralisation policy that will have a major impact on recruitment to key sectors where natural resources are. The government's policy has made everyday life difficult for many. They're going to trump through their ideology, which is increasing the differences between cities and countries and between people, and which is damaging to trust and cohesion. The Labour Party will take Norway in a different direction, offer equal opportunities throughout the country and fight against this centralisation. Districts need better race security, broadband and mobile coverage, fast boat and ferry services, better collective provision, better county roads, more labour and better welfare services. It is more important for local value creation than for those who already have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1131	When the pandemic hit Norway, we were lucky to have the beautiful people in the health care community, the health professionals, the nurses who work around the clock to save lives and health, the beautiful people in the care sector who snake around to organize home school for our children, all those who ensure safety, and who kept the wheels going, because we have the welfare state, the same welfare state on the right side goes to elections to cut, privatize and centralize. We are going to elections to strengthen the welfare state and to implement a trust reform in the public sector. If we are to succeed in strengthening the welfare state of the population, it requires a strong and well-functioning public sector in Norway. A lot is good – a lot can get better. The employees tell us that the distance between those sitting at the top and those working in the field is increasing. Employees of the welfare state are at least particu­lar in their daily lives compared to other occupational groups. Those who work on what is most important to you and me – the elderly, our children, our welfare – have at least to say. They tell us about a everyday life in which market thinking has taken over, a working day that has to fit into an Excel sheet where people become a product, about privatisation that leads to welfare offers not being related to us as citizens, a everyday life of idiotic target management and reporting that links time that could have been spent on the inhabitants. Child and youth psychiatry employees report that 20–25 pst. of everyday life goes to registration and less time for treatment. If the welfare state is to stand up for us when we need it, we have to listen to the competent professionals. They must have time, trust, and responsibility. We have to get rid of faulty target management, which creates frustration and limits time. We must call for public welfare and non-profit actors, ensure real participation for employees, and we must ensure a public sector that builds up its own competences when it comes to digitisation. The public sector must end up becoming a dairy cow for the consulting industry. It's bad, and it's expensive. In Nav, millions are being saved by building up their own competences — the same in the police. Public digitisation projects without anchor for those who are going to use the solutions in everyday life are becoming expensive and bad – bad for employees, bad for the population. Therefore, we need a shift in the pace of the public sector digitalisation strategy. We cut heavily in consulting, and we were told to work in permanent jobs. It's about respect for how we spend taxpayers' money, and it's about taking the employees seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1142	There have been many arguments in this debate. The representative, Aasrud, said that the extra money from the Workers' Party will do well, but he did not mention that they also do more tasks than they add money, and that the real space for action is actually going to be negative for the local government sector. It's going to be a tighter economy. It's worth taking with you in that story. So it's interesting to hear the representative Gharahkhani, who tells about how the right-wing government is building down the welfare state. Well, now the public sector is 66 pst. of the economy of Norway. Of course, this is partly due to the corona situation, but before that it was 58 pst. It's high. So making a claim that the welfare of Norway is being built up because some proposals disagree, is not a believer. I think it's a form of misrepresentation of the opponents' policies that strictly do not belong in this room. What I actually drew to say was Norwegian housing policy. It is mainly – fortunately – successful. The ownership line is strong, and as many as eight out of ten owns their own home, which is higher than in our neighboring country. The ownership rate is also high among immigrants, and we are among the countries with the largest share of young owners of housing. The average age for buying owner-occupied dwellings is 28 years, a number that has been stable for the last ten years, and even in Oslo, it is actually under 29 years and has been so for the last ten years. Nevertheless, much more housing needs to be built in the press areas. In Oslo, for example. 200000 more people in the last 20 years, only 60000 new homes have been built and an average household is less than two people. It goes without saying that housing prices are increasing. Then several plots have to be regulated and municipalities have to know their visit time in these press areas. But the most important thing for me is that we are able to stand up for those who over time are struggling to get into the housing market. According to the SSB, there were 179 000 disabled people on the housing market in 2019. Of these, 78 000 were children and young people. Fortunately, the number of homeless people had fallen significantly when it was last surveyed, but offensive social housing policy is important and the state budget for 2021 will contribute to this. Earlier in December, the government presented a new strategy for housing-social policy. Everyone needs a safe home. It is precisely intended to help more disadvantaged people enter the housing market and allow more people to buy their own housing through the start-up loan scheme in the Husbanken, but also to have a good housing support scheme and secure conditions on the rental market. There's a lot to tackle in this area, but we have a clear strategy for what we're going to get in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1159	An active district policy aimed at enabling people to live and work where they wish is essential for growth and value creation throughout the country. The figures of population growth and decline of the Central Statistical Office show that in 2015 there was a decline in the population in 249 municipalities. In 2013, there was a decline in only 112 municipalities. In 2019, the whole of 291 municipalities have a decline in population. This shows that district policy is beneficial. It means something who's in charge of the country. Population figures also show what is the fasit of this government. No, it's not possible to blame for megatrends. If it is political will, there are opportunities. A few weeks ago we dealt with the district communication here in Stortinget, and I ended my speech by stating that it was exactly ten months since the country got a district minister, and that it would probably be ten months longer before we got a district policy. The government's draft budget clearly shows that I am going to be right. There's zero bet on District Norway. Education policy is district policy. A decentralised higher education service that allows 15-year-olds not to move on to a hibernation is important to keep their youth alive. The same applies to offers of: continuing training and decentralised higher education at day commuter intervals. The closure of the Nesna campus is the school example of what destroys the sense of competence and the development of nutrition in an entire region. Dissemination of State jobs is important. Migration from Oslo to Bergen, Tromsø and Trondheim are both right and important, but it is not district policy. State jobs need to be spread as far as possible in smaller places. The Tynset Archives is a good example of the fact that access to skills is not a challenge even if we move government jobs to small municipalities. The Central Party proposes that the National Lease Committee should, of course, be set aside outside the major cities. By means of urban growth agreements, billions are transferred to the major cities, but small and medium-sized municipalities are being eaten away with increasingly narrow frameworks. The centre party has launched building growth agreements. The aim is to facilitate business development and living communities throughout the country. There are large areas in Norway that are not exploited and with a targeted industrial policy there is a high potential. A few weeks ago, the former Right-State Council, Victor Norman, presented a NOU on demographic challenges in the districts. Their conclusion is: Active district policy requires more decentralised education, better economy in the district municipalities, end of municipal mergers, and clusters of small municipalities with good intermunicipal cooperation are better than ‘building change’. More attention needs to be paid to road construction in the districts. Where have I read this before? Yes, I've read that in the Center Party program.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1182	There are several topics that have distinguished themselves in the debate, and the number one is Bø kommune. One must only praise the municipality of Bø because they have managed to obtain so much publicity, and one must have great respect for the local decisions taken up there, with the help of varying parties. I have great respect for that. Having said that, I believe that the municipality of Bø must take the consequences of the decisions they have taken. Then it'll be quite special if only Bø municipality is to be compensated. It has to be seen in a context of the income system, if one is to do so at all, because for the Christian People's Party, these forms of taxation are actually incredibly important. Also, property taxes have become a crossroads here, and it seems that the aim is to limit local politicians' right to print taxes to the greatest possible extent. I would say that those who have the best local knowledge about this are actually local politicians. It is strange that a form of tax administered by the local level should be so uneven in relation to State taxes. The Central Party claims that they listen to people’s needs and will be close. I have great respect for that, it should be a goal for everyone. But I hope that the Center Party, when they may once in the future move into the government offices, has doors that are wide enough to meet two in them, because otherwise it will drop considerably. Then I want to make a statement of concern about the county council, the regional level. I hear from several parties that there is not so much concern for the regional level. For the Christian People's Party, the regional level is incredibly important to manage services that need a lot of competence close to people. We have concerns about a major aftermath on county roads, and we have concerns that rural policy is more than a transport policy, although transport policy is important. The county must manage ever-shrinking crates and regional development funds. The notifications received by the Christian People's Party indicate that regional development funds are absolutely essential to stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises, to develop in the districts and perhaps to have establishments in the districts where others will not be. But then the dialogue and attention of the county community are essential, and they are the ones with local knowledge. So instead of focusing on reversing the regional level, the Christian People's Party will focus on developing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1197	In all the areas that the Christian People's Party has spoken today, they would get a lot more out of their positions along with the red-green parties. Let's make it clear. SV will strengthen the local economy by over 7 billion. kr, and we do that because we want to provide security in everyday life for people and rooms for municipalities and counties to keep the wheels running also in construction. Creating jobs I understand is something that the right-hand side is now going to take us out of the crisis. Yes, SV has made many proposals to create more jobs. Among other things, we have strengthened the regional arrangements, as the government writes in its budget very well. They provide increased value creation, more jobs, more employees, compared to similar enterprises that have not received such support. So there are arrangements that work very well and very well. These have increased SV by 400 million. kr because we want those jobs. In addition, we have put in large packages for new green workplaces and risk relief, which turns out to be what works best here. In addition to that, we have a desire to give 200 million dollars. kr more for broadband. That's absolutely necessary. So we have many proposals, unlike the government, that propose a cut in the wealth tax, from which it is not possible to identify one job – not one. Include, I hear some talk about. Yes, let's start by realizing the roadmap for universally designed schools. For that, SV proposes 300 million. kr. We're going to have to get schools that will allow all our kids to go there, at least get in. There'll be so many empty words when you're not willing to move a heads to realize this. Reduce the differences, I hear you say, and you talk a lot about housing support. When fewer sheep and those who get fewer, it is weakened in a situation where boute poisons increase and revenue goes down. At the age of 20, the government – and the Council of State were up and talking about social housing policy – cut even more in housing aid. The rules are so tight that people who need it don't get. This budget has also cut subsidies for rental dwellings. It is not a matter of making sense of what you say when you say that you are busy with jobs, that you are busy with reducing differences and that you are busy with including more people. Then you have to do something other than what this government is doing. This government has incredible opportunities, opportunities that almost no other government has ever had. They have financial resources and freedom of action, and they could have been used to strengthen the community rather than to increase differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1216	I actually took the word to talk about municipal preparedness and total defence, and about the government's willingness to prioritise resources so that the municipalities can do this important work. I'll tell you a little bit about it, in a minute, because we have a new security policy backcloth. There is an increased need for civil protection and civil-military cooperation. We have to revitalise the total defence, and the municipalities are completely decisive, together with the county councils and state agencies, to get this done. Then they need funds. I'm very disappointed that the Center Party did not get multiples in this room for its proposal to set up a total preparedness commission. There's something that we're going to record again when we get to government. When I heard the Minister of the District in the reply and her great concern that the districts have huge infrastructure costs, I had to think about crocodile tears. Early this year, the centre got a well-founded proposal for better ferry services. Where was the district minister, then, to believe? The cost of commuting has increased dramatically with this government. Where has the district minister been when that happened? Regional development funds have entered. Has Hofstad Greece recorded what results from a lack of resources to stimulate business and development in district municipalities, in district districts? The means of transport are becoming more and more centralised, for gigantic railway expansions and four-field roads around the big cities. Where is the district minister when it's planned? Victor Norman says that municipal convergence is not a good policy to develop growth in district municipalities – municipal cooperation. Where is the district minister when the government still wants to oblige the statesmen to work intensively to get more municipalities to merge? And finally, the income system of the municipalities. There is one reason why we turned the number of people moving from 2005 to 2013 and that it has now returned to 2005 levels. There's a lot of reasons for that. I've mentioned some of them here, but I'm absolutely sure that the income system that we are changing in our time, which made it viable for district municipalities, is an important reason for that. It's going to change again if we come to government. Finally, I can tell the representative Bransdal that the Central Party is coming into government, we must, as last but not least, ensure that the doors are so wide that ordinary people can come to us with their challenges and be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1227	It's about being on guard when the success projects of the politicians come to our table, because it often gets expensive, and even more often the final sum is much larger than what it was originally intended for. Of course, both the safety and employment of employees must be in order in a new government quarter, but we have a government that behaves daily as if it's too expensive to do anything about today's huge tasks. At the same time, we know that the new government quarter has a cost framework of over 20 billion. kr for first construction steps only. So it's more than what the government sees for what's called the largest climate project in Norwegian industry ever, carbon capture and storage, which will be given $16.8 billion. kr. Norway has almost 200,000 unemployed. We have a long list of measures to create jobs and renovate the country. But instead of an environmentally friendly and powerful crisis policy for upgrading and developing infrastructure, energy saving, maintenance and new industrial projects, we get instead the symbolism policy of the Progress Party and the Right cut policy. The progress party went high on the track and would cut the entire allocation to the new government quarter, but in comparison, they prioritised tax cuts for the 6,000 with Norway’s most expensive dwellings. The government's willingness to engage in dialogue with the opposition, the Municipality of Oslo and the trade unions, to look at the re-use of other solutions has been too weak for us to support that billion-dollar allocation. We also believe that working conditions must be in the care of those who are going to build a new government quarter. State Building has now contracted approximately 90 million. kr with the company Schindler AS to build lifts in the new government quarter. Schindler fired two chief trustees in November after a conflict, although trustees have a special protection against dismissal and the LO has asked Schindler to cancel the dismissal. State buildings have been bragged for their serious demands, which thus require subcontractors to prevent social dumping. Red suggests today that the government must ensure that state buildings do not use sub-contractors in labour conflicts, including companies that use detachment as an instrument against trustees. If a company operating active trade union hugging can be a supplier for the construction of a new government quarter, it is acceptable that the Norwegian model be demolished at the same time. So here all the parties should both men and women get up and support Red's proposals, which I am thus addressing to voting in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1243	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1248	That's to keep the municipalities fooled when you're going to allow 2.5 billion. kr more for the municipalities and at the same time order them to carry out a series of new tasks with the same money. The sum of the Labour Party's policies will be that municipalities will have to cut their operating budget and the existing service provision to finance the new promises of the Labour Party. The Labour Party declared a crisis in the municipal economy earlier in the fall. 138 translators had to sign a letter from the party that had been sent to the locals throughout the country. The Western spokesmen had to be very frustrated to sign bookkeeping posts, posts written at Youngstorget. Gahr Støre is quoted in the media as saying that he had never experienced such unrest in Kommune-Noreg. All of this is open customs and clothes and a game for the gallery. If the Labour Party had sincerely thought that there was such a terrible bad situation in the municipalities, they should have provided a budget with a couple of percent increase without this being tied up in a lot of ear-marked bets. The government stood up for the municipalities. They just launched the last corona pack a few days ago, and they gave more money to the municipalities than the Center Party led KS requested. The government exceeded the expectations of Kommune-Noreg. Right of guess we're going to give more to the municipalities, but it must be in free space. We believe that the best way to use each municipality is to decide on its own resource. The Labour Party sees the municipalities and the municipality of Norway as one municipality and has to pay the highest possible attention to the municipalities. It's a coercion for many municipalities, a coercion they're not close to paying for when we see how they've budgeted their budget for 2021. One example is the school meal. So it is claimed that the Right does not have ambitions for the Municipality of Norway. We heard SV here – 7 billion. kr more. For the Right, it's not about having ambitions for Kommune-Noreg by participating in an over-bomb fight. It's never going to happen that the Right will override the left-hand side of Norwegian policy by overcoming the municipalities. Right has ambitions for Kommune-Noreg, big ambitions for Kommune-Noreg: good services, good local self-government and attractive communities. But it can be done in completely different ways than with an over-the-counter policy. We have just dealt with the district message, as many have pointed out, she pointed to the challenges. In the cold water of this there have come two good NOUs. They point to a number of possibilities, and the government is working on several strategies to address this. I think we're on a good track, and I'm absolutely sure we're going to deliver a good and forward-looking district policy when we adopt these strategies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1263	I have to say, I'm a little surprised when the Central Party and the representative Mr. Greni from the pulpit are talking down the districts and are able to see so little of the possibilities and the people around the districts are creating. There is a single call for more state, more subsidies, more state aid. The center party is occupied with, are several offices, several structures, several systems. There is so little faith in the power that people have, the power that communities have, to create and get things into District Norway. It really surprises me. We see a Workers' Party that outruns local politicians – reports from Youngstorget that local initiatives should be accepted, for example. as they have done in Bø. Now we see an SV that goes out and calls such local initiatives for camaraderie, as the representative Karin Andersen called it yesterday at Dagsnyt 18 when the wealth tax in Bø was debated. At the same time, we see central party rapporteurs who want to create development and secure housing locally. The rapporteur, Mr Bjarne Holø, now goes out and proposes to investigate the wealth tax, and the rapporteur, Mr Inge Lien, from the centre party in the West, goes out and says that they will remove the wealth tax. It's because they want to decide for themselves, they want to have the opportunity to participate and influence the development and growth of their community. So to the Central Party, which has made it its parade to go out and criticize everything and everyone and be against everything, and to the question from the representative Trellevik: what does the Central Party really think about what the Central Party in Bø has now done, about the changes in wealth taxes, about the more and more Central Party rapporteurs around the whole of Norway are addressing? What does the Center Party mean? The centre party replied by pointing out what the Right-Rapporteur in Bø has said and done. I think there are a lot of people who want an answer from this pulpit today: Is the centre party for or against what the municipality of Bø is now doing with the property tax? It would have been nice to get a simple and straightforward clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1276	We still believe that the government does not at all equip the municipalities to prepare themselves for the challenges they face, and no matter how many contributions from the government parties that come from here, there is no increase in the local authorities' room for action by 2021. It's going to be the opposite. It's a minus budget for the municipalities. Those calculations are pretty clear, and it's kind of strange to sit and listen to that kind of tribute of a budget that you can so easily actually pick from each other. So when you see what you get from income and what's going on, it's negative at the bottom, so it's a little bit weird. But I'm going to give some examples, because it's been talking about our alternative, and that's very good. I'm very happy to talk about the Workers' Party's alternative, because it's a very good alternative for the municipalities: Senja gets 8 million. SEK more for 2021 with our proposal, Alta approx. 10.5 million. kr more, Drammen ca. Forty-five million. SEK more, Fredrikstad 35 million. kr more, Aurskog-Høland 7,5 mill. kr mer, Austevolll ca. Three million. kr more, Voss 7,5 mill. kr more – and I could still have, but we don't have time for that. There could be a lot more nurses, teachers, kindergarten staff, etc. of the strength which the government does not want. But apart from perhaps the representative Trellevik – I have to give it to him – I think there is a bit of a drag from the government parties here. They are unable to defend their policies, and they are unable to show that this is a good budget for the municipalities. On the contrary, there are many ways of proving the article. Mr Trellevik said it was a poor budget for the municipalities in 2021. It's the worst in 16 years, and he confirmed it by himself. That the right-wing government gets a district uprising in jail is just in place. You can dislike it – I understand that you even don't like it, because it's not a nice thing. Last time it was a district uprising, I was the rapporteur. It was in 2005, and then it was Erna Solberg who was the municipal minister, so here history repeats itself in a way. And then you just have to say that this two-part division we've got in the Ministry of Local Affairs, where one should be responsible for the municipalities and one for the districts, has neither given a better community policy nor a better district policy. Confusion has only increased, and regional and local policies have become worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1289	Creating a future through black measurement I think is a bad starting point, cf. Previous post of the Labour Party. The future is created by the fact that we have faith in the future, and that we are looking at what possibilities are actually there. I want to talk a little bit more about housing policy. Everyone needs a safe home, but unfortunately not everyone experiences it. Some people find it difficult to obtain their own housing, and the reasons for this can be many and complex. Bust pay is important for many with low incomes and high construction costs. It's important to make sure he's targeted. The government strengthens the bus pay scheme by 82.4 million. kr in this budget, and in addition, the initial loan will continue to provide more loans for rentals and quality of housing. In addition, the government has made sure that the bus pay scheme is more accurate and targeted. The bus pay code is complicated today, and it has been a long time since a thorough evaluation of it has been carried out. Therefore, I look forward very much to the work of the expert committee being presented, which will provide us with a good advice on how to improve the bus pay even better. The government also proposes to increase the House Bank’s loan framework to 20 billion. kr. Frame shall be used for start-up loans, loans for rentals, housing quality loans and loans for student housing, and in 2021 more than 8 000 households will be able to own their own dwellings through the start-up loan scheme. The House Bank has a very important role to play in making it possible for people with difficulty to find housing, both through financial instruments and not least through guidance to municipalities. The government has decided to launch an attempt to gather expertise and guidance from the House Bank and the county councillor in the housing social area from the next fall. Today, the county has a number of health, social, drug, child protection and work-life tasks, which are closely linked to housing. The aim here is to be able to see the residential area in a context with the rest of our welfare policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1304	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1309	Overby, said Trellevik. Yeah, we've spent about as much money as the Right had at their disposal when they put down the fees on snooze, snooze and alcohol. That's what we've chosen to use for the community sector: for teachers, for health professionals, for more employees in child protection. It's a choice of values, and I'm good at it. Will the municipalities get more freedom? Yes, for example. to determine the school structure fully and not be overrun by private school decisions in the government, to have the opportunity to create their seas in secondary school and to charge property taxes. And in the case of Bø, it's a camaraderie. Decisions without investigation may determine seas, but they must also take the risk, not force others to split into irresponsible decisions that have the sole effect of bringing even less taxes to the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1319	First, to the councillor of Hofstad Helleland, who believes that Greni is talking down the districts: no, Greni is not talking down the districts. Greni sees the possibilities in the districts. We see the creativity, the will to bet, stand at the courage that's in the districts. The challenge is that today’s government deprives all district municipalities of the opportunity to exploit this creative power, and they strangle those established in the districts. Regional development funds are halved. It is a very important tool, among other things. to get up the activity where I live. And the state has left these municipalities. In my municipality we have lost Nav jobs, the tax collector, the police – I think we have left one government job, and that's probably the priest. We can't have it that way if we're going to have an attractive place to move back to for the youth. Then we must also have jobs for those who move with, and then we cannot centralize all state jobs. So to Bø and the property tax: The council has obviously not read my comments in the Municipal Report. We think it is very creative that these rapporteurs look at other ways of solving the challenges for municipalities. When the municipalities have now been starving for seven years, it is clear that they must turn all the stones to get this done. It's entirely within local municipal self-government, which we want to defend with beaks and claws, but we think it would be wrong if all the other municipalities were to fund the loss they have. The challenge is that this is not sustainable in the long term, this does not solve the challenges for hungry-fed municipalities. There are simply not enough billionaires in Norway to meet the needs of all these municipalities that are not now getting the budget to go up, using this tool. It works for number one, two and three – and maybe for the first ten – but after that this won't be sustainable. So yes, there's full support for exploiting the local action space, but no, it doesn't solve that much, because there aren't enough billionaires for everyone. To the representative Trellevik, who continued to repeat the untruths here in the Chamber: it won't be any more true for that. I have broken up the article to which I referred, and there he clearly said that the Eyeguard will receive 4.5 million. kr less with the budget of the Centre Party. It's a lie. They'll get 23.5 million. kr more. It also says that the Bear Fjord loses. It's a lie. They get 11.1 million. kr more. I'd say to get twenty-three million. For example, running municipal services is not a significant loss for a municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1328	2020 has been a demanding and turbulent year for both residents, municipalities and businesses. Despite the fact that it has been tough, I see that that situation often brings out the best in people. Municipal Norway has done a fantastic job, volunteers have set up all over the country, and there has been a fantastic spirit of hard work in local communities all over the country. Some time ago, I was able to read in the local language that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and the Minister for District and Digitalisation stated that a strategy should be drawn up to combat anti-abuse and deportation in the districts. I am very pleased, and I thought I could make some recordings and some contributions that I know are important to my region and to my constituency, West Agder. I hope that this will not just be empty words, but that you, for example. fill the new State's house in Lwagal with new jobs, and not just a shift of jobs within the region, where one is taken from one municipality and given to another, but that the state is actually providing funds where needed. Furthermore, something else is important for my constituency, West Agder. On the island of Hidra in Flekkefjord they have had to live with a ferry connection that has been ripe for replacement for many years. Among other things, I saw an old post from the NRK from the end of the 1960s, where just a bridge to the island of Hidra was taken up. The current Minister for Transport Håkon Kyllingmark visited the island 50 years ago and went so far as to promise a continental connection without using the word «law». Up to this room, a continental connection has been established there, about ten years ago. The continental link still does not exist precisely because the county has chosen to use the money they receive separately from the country, to something other than what they are going to spend on, namely the mainland link. At the top of that one is driven by an idea that there are elf ferries that are to be the climate contribution in Kommune-Norway. So what you're doing is you're using the money Stortinget grants to get a mainland connection, to buy in deer elf ferns that you're going to have to subsidize, and the people who use them don't even want to. Then we're going to put a little bit of a stop to the political priorities. The size has decided to have a better ferry solution. Then I think it is a pity that it was initially added up to a displacement. Fortunately, the Progress Party said that this was not the case and that it was expected that this scheme would be revised in May. I expect the government parties to follow up, and that this scheme will be so good that you can replace ferry connections across the country with good, safe and climate-friendly mainland connections in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1341	Let me first correct a misunderstanding in my answer to the representative of Moxnes. Earlier, in the reply, I was injured to say that Schindler won the tender competition in March 2020. The right thing is that they were qualified for the March 2020 tender and that State Building at that time was not familiar with any internal work dispute in Schindler. So to the representative of Lauvås, who lists a whole series of additions to the municipalities with the Labour Party scheme: then you still don't take into account that the Workers' Party is doing more tasks than their funding requires. With a quick overview, as I assess the matter, it is such that we add up to a really increased operating space of 700 million. kr for the municipalities, while with the Workers' Party there will be several hundred million dollars in minus because they simply contribute unfunded tasks. I also think I have to count by that. However, there are some municipalities, even though the government has set up solid municipal structures in recent years, which have challenges. The representative of Lauvås himself pulled out Ås Municipality in an earlier debate this year, which he thought had problems because the government had not compensated them for Korona. But what is clear from Ås municipality's public documents is that they had challenges because they had invested too much and overestimated how many people they came to have, and therefore now they have financial difficulties. So it's not because of the government, it's because of choices that they themselves have to answer for. Several have mentioned, also the representative Andersen, this with Bø. It is important to stress that the starting point for the income system is that all municipalities bear the cost of a municipality that reduces its income tax or its wealth tax rate. It did not want the government to join in, and therefore Bø had to carry the initial wallpaper that they had foreseen they would have. That's a slightly different angle to what Andersen's representative here is making that. I'm glad that the representative, Mr. Greni, is busy working in the districts. It is worth remembering that we have moved out more jobs under this government than what was done under the previous government. It is important to facilitate that we can have strong Norwegian businesses out in the districts, and then it is a little strange that the Center Party, with such surgical precision, targets just the Norwegian corner stone farms around the coast and across the country by punishing the Norwegian owners of these companies and thus favoring foreigners. At the same time, when you want to cancel the EEA Agreement, it would be really dramatic for the jobs in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1355	It's starting to become a tradition that I'm drawing after the state council when he thinks he's going to get his last post. After that, it usually uses to get more speakers on the list, and that's the way it's going to be today. What made me take the floor was really what the government said in its main post when we talk about demographic costs, that is, we get older, which in itself is good, and that we live longer. That cost is borne initially by all of us in our municipalities. This means that there is less scope for economic action to maintain other services, such as: school, kindergarten or, in fact, any of the municipalities involved. We are now debating well over NOK 600 billion in the hall, and it might have deserved an even longer debate. What the Council of State said in connection with it was related to pension costs. In the past, it has been said that pension costs are part of what you remove when you discuss what kind of action room Norwegian municipalities have in the future. Pension costs next year are estimated at 600 million. kr, and when we start discussing fund reserves, it is to the extent that the municipalities and county councils should and should do, where the amount of pension obligations incurred varies, i.e. how to pay for their employees in the future. In that 700-million-dollar action room. kr, on which both the Council of State and other Right-Representatives, including Trellevik, have been involved, are not, as is reflected in the State budget, the proposal from the Ministry of State, including pension costs. That's why representatives from several parties, including me – and far from the Workers' Party – have talked about that the action space is actually a minus settlement. Because when you start subtracting this — the obligation to do business for those who have it, underfunding for example. The nursery norm – ending with a negative room for action for Norwegian local politicians in the middle of a pandemic. Then what the Center Party says is cut off the services, because there's no other way to get the budgets up. The municipalities should relate to four years, not one year, as the Storting does. It makes it extremely demanding to do so – if the Council of State could clarify it. Finally, I would like to say something about the Central Party's concern about what is really District Norway, that is, most of Norway, about whether we should be honest and say how it is viewed here from Oslo. If those municipalities are 20 000 inhabitants or 450, they are by definition part of District Norway, because they do not belong to the classical press area. Our concern is about what we see of changes that the government puts up to, not like a cut-off and black paint, as the district minister was about, but a real concern about how to get a basis for using the opportunities to create jobs and, not least, keep the ones you have, for the best of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1368	People live and live their lives around the country. The development and operation of welfare services is out in Kommune-Norge. There are many elected people who are now sitting there looking at how to get the budgets going together – to make kindergartens, schools, elderly care and other welfare services the best possible for their citizens. In this way, work for all is an important foundation, for it brings cohesion in terms of both private, family and community economies. It's also about giving power and the ability to build good communities, where you feel together and at home, around the country. If we are to succeed, we must have political governance as a counter-power for centralisation and privatisation. Our district policy is based on a foundation of work and well-being. We will facilitate the creation of safe jobs throughout the country, and all Norwegian municipalities will have good schools, safe care for the elderly and quality of health services. That is what is the modern welfare state in Norway. When the Workers' Party proposes $2.50. NOK more to the municipalities, that means NOK 207 million. kr only to the municipalities of Trøndelag in order to provide a better welfare offer. I see that the district minister at least acknowledges that the Labour Party in its budget proposes to transfer more tasks to municipalities and county municipalities. It's about decentralizing, giving power and local control. But when the district minister travels around Norway and says it's going to be a pilot project to set up the new state house, I'm a little surprised. My father was head of the Orkdal work office in the 1980s and 1990s, and he built the Statens' house in 1992, where police, social security offices, employment offices, etc. were established. So now the district minister travels around and tells them to bring an innovation in Municipality-Norway in 2020. What innovation is that? It doesn't come with any tasks or money. This is not about district policy or renewal – it is about old-fashioned policy. If you want something, at least you have to transfer the money and tasks that will enable Kommune-Norway to succeed. One sees a government that premieres a municipality that reduces the tax on its inhabitants to create a tax haven for the richest. Not only that: Norway and the Norwegian people should be involved in paying for it. It's the Right and Right Government policy for District Norway: we're all going to pay, together, for someone to get a tax haven in Bø in Telemark. We can't have it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1383	The representative of Ove Trellevik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1388	Both the representative and I used glasses, but it was tempting to ask that we change glasses. The region center proposal that the Center Party takes away means $38 per capita. Then Oslo's gonna have 26 million. kr more. The other municipalities that have had regional centre support have a net negative effect. There are many municipalities: Narvik loses 4 million. kr, Volda loses between 3 and 4 million. SEK, Hustadvika loses between 3 and 4 million. kr, and so I can continue with all the merged municipalities that are losing to the removal of the regional centre proposal. We've learned something new today. It's that the difference between the starving municipalities and the good municipal economy is 2 pst. It's almost unbelievable. At the tap, I also found it a little sad to hear that SV would favour Swedish jobs rather than Norwegian commercial workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1397	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1402	State Council Astrup refers to Ås municipality, which has misjudged and overinvested. Then they should have received help on the same line with another municipality, which the government will now provide emergency aid, Bø kommune, but they do not. Å's municipality is not going to get the help that government council member Astrups will do in Bø. The fact remains: the Labour Party's draft budget is a strengthening of the local economy. Our proposal is to strengthen the welfare services of the inhabitants of Norway. The right-wing government's representatives and the government's attempts to conjure up another reality are not credible – not here in the hall and not out there in the municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1409	The representative Nordlund and the Central Party are very concerned about jobs in the districts as long as the state establishes and finances those jobs, for their own policies are, of course, directly destructive to the district industry. I was at Røros on Friday, at the corner stone factory Flokk, which is Europe's largest office furniture factory. They provide wages and salaries for employees and investments in the Røros community of 130 million. kr per year. About 130 million are. as much as the framework transfer from the state. 130 million go back from Europe and exports and to the Røros community. It says a little bit about the value of the businesses around in District Norway. They are involved in creating well-being. When the Central Party is now to break the links to the internal market in its alternative budget and remove 3,2 billion. EUR to EEA funds, that means that district companies lose 500 million customers around Europe, 500 million customers involved in financing our schools, our kindergartens. In addition, the Centre Party proposes to increase the taxes on wealth. So they're going to favor foreign ownership of the companies around the district of Norway. And local owners, who are engaged in creating jobs in the community, who are engaged in caring for the employees because they know what that means for the families affected, the Center Party is going to punish with its own strange tax. When we start snooping a little bit in the results of a Centerpart-steered government, which I hope we don't get from the harvest, it doesn't matter. You give with one hand, but the jam you take with the other. So as long as the state comes and takes care of and is the only solution, you have to punish all the fires and people who are trying to create values, who are trying to get something out of the community and out in the districts. Then to the representative Jorod Asphjell: there were two errors in what the representative said. Point one: What the government has now proposed with local state houses around is something quite different from what was established a few years ago. Point two: The representative Asphjell said it didn't come with the money. It comes with money. It is provided with funds to organise this in the budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1420	Since the Council of State on the pulpit was now up with the red pen, I can continue, and I can only make it clear that today we have not discussed Bø in Telemark, but Bø in the Nordland state. It avoided the attention of the Council of State that Asphjell in his zeal was so unfortunate to note the wrong state. Some comments at the end of a debate: I think I share Mr Andersen's view of the Christian People's Party's contributions today, because they have been good. The conclusion that Bransdal could not possibly have been a proponent for the Christian People's Party to enter this government is obvious after today's debate. Then I heard the representative of the Moxnes being up here in the pulpit talking about the construction of a new government quarter, which there are many questions to ask about, such as the ‘achievements of the political elite’. It's a characteristic that I strongly distance from. What we need to do now is to return – to be pompous – to the high castle of democracy after the terrorist attack on the government and the youth organisation AUF in 2011. Then we can debate the use of money, and I think I'm going to join what I've heard from the government council astrup say earlier today, that no one wants to spend as much money as it's now up to. And from the Labour Party we are critical of how much the bill is now going to be. We've asked a lot of questions about how to control this, about how to reduce costs, but this is not a performance project. This is to rebuild democracy and say that we are not yielding because if we are subjected to terrorist attacks. I have heard several representatives from the Right talk about the opposition now being black painters. I think that's what the representatives are going to do. The opposition must be allowed to question the policy of the government without being accused of black paint. The representative of Trellevik has been involved in the coercive campaign, which he claims will be applied to the municipalities by the Workers' Party. So this is a representative who is underfunded, according to KS, a government that is now jumping from the promise to compensate for the loss of the so-called machine tax, which is now causing a loss for the municipalities of several hundred million dollars, which reduces the ability to collect, with local freedom of action, property tax, and which honors what we now receive nationally, and which is being combated internationally: a negative tax competition where it is about bringing the tax down as much as possible, and where the community gets hurt. It's the Right Policy. It is those who reduce freedom of action – and therefore less well-being in the municipalities – not the Labour Party's policy. But there's one thing, and there's a follow-up to today's glad tidings earlier in the line change: I'm going to take the promise from the council of Astrup that there's going to be more money to compensate the municipalities for extra expenses to the Korona. I'll take that home to Bodø for Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1437	The president was also tempted to correct the geography, but expected a representative who was informed in this way. The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1444	To end this discussion with Trellevik: I don't think it helps if he gets new glasses, because this is deliberately 'fake news'. What the representative says is just as right as if I were going out in the newspapers and saying that now the government has removed the entire volunteer centre from the budget of the Municipal Ministry. It's a truth, but it's a truth with modifications, because if I don't say at the same time that they have put it under another department and the arrangement is fortunately retained, it's actually 'fake news'. When we pull in, we take with one hand 4.5 million. And we're going to increase by $28 million. kr, so they have a net of 23.5 million. kr. It's a real reinforcement. To the representative of Hofstad Helleland: I hope she has come to understand that the Central Party will reduce corporate tax in the district. I think Flokk had come out very well with the Central Party's tax arrangements. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] The biggest problem of a flock is probably the flight routes at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1451	Time's up. And it's the state councillor, Hofstad Helleland. The next speaker is the Council of Astrups.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1462	I am very pleased that the representative Nordlund – and this is not an invitation to sign up – addressed the long-term challenges I raised in my original post. This is not a criticism or black paint of the opposition, just so it has been said to the representative Sivertsen, but to all of us: I think that the debates we must have in the years to come will have to be different from the debate we have had today. It's going to have to deal a lot more about how we can solve these problems in new ways, with new tools, to reach even more, make sure that people get the services they deserve, expect and have demands, but within a completely different space of action than what we expect for the last 15-20 years, because reality is going to be different. The representative, Nordlund, referred to demography and then drew the parallel directly to the pension, and said yes, the municipalities have to spend a lot of money on pensions. I thought much wider than just retirement when I was talking about demography, because it's about having professionals to do the job. We need nurses, we need doctors. In the municipality of Nordland, there are now many municipalities that do not have municipal doctors – in the middle of a pandemic. When I was in Bodø earlier this fall, I was told that almost weekly they have issues in the city council about taking over the management of the tasks of other municipalities because those municipalities are unable to solve them themselves, because they are not getting access to people to solve the problems. Nordland has had record low unemployment before the pandemic hit, so the problem has been that there is not a shortage of work but a shortage of labour. These things we also need to discuss as the population gets older, and that's basically positive, but we also need people to do the job. To answer the question of pension costs: it is that 2020 and 2021 are seen in the context. So now the pension costs for 2020 seem to be 1.7 billion. kr less than what we thought, we thought it would be 450 million. kr lower, and it is seen in the context of an expected increase of 600 million in 2021. kr. Net, then, the municipalities go like this in terms of plus. That's to answer that. So to the representatives of Lauvås and Asphjell: I don't think I could have made myself quite fundamentally well understood instead, and I take that on my coat, but the income system as it was when the Workers' Party crashed, says that all municipalities should cover the bill if one municipality reduces the income tax or the property tax. The government doesn't think we should do that. Therefore, Bø has to take its share of the bill. That's our starting point. So it's a completely different approach to what Lauvås and Asphjell represent. With that, I would like to thank you for a very good debate. I see that the representative Nordlund has not signed up, so I'm going to sit down. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1475	I'm sorry I said Bø in Telemark, but I have a sibling there, and that's probably why it was naturally in the vocabulary. Bø in Nordland is at least equal fine. To the representative Trellevik, linked to regional grants. The representative Holm Lønseth from the Right was in the Avisa Sør-Trøndelag in Orkland and boasted that the Senterpartiet and the Workers' Party opposed this regional subsidy, and that Orkland, as a newly merged municipality, would get so much more money with the Right's budget. That's weird. With the Workers' Party's alternative budget, Orkland municipality would receive EUR 8.71 million. kr more through its municipal planning – SEK 8.71 million. more to kindergarten, to school, to care for the elderly and to provide important welfare services in the municipality. To the State Council of Hofstad Greece: The State House was built in 1992, with the co-location of important state agencies to cooperate to provide better services to the inhabitants of the Orkland area. What's the difference between that and what the Council of State is going to promise now? What other tasks will the new State House have in 2021 over what started in 1992? And how much more money is the Council of State putting on the table? If she could come up and explain it, I would appreciate it very much, so we can hear what differences the government here points to. Finally, the main regional policy instrument we have in Trøndelag is a forward-looking policy for secondary schools. We have 32 secondary schools in Trøndelag. All schools, except in Trondheim, have a decline in pupils and applicants. What, then, does the government propose with the support of the district minister? Well, they suggest character-based admission, which means that many line offers and many schools are at risk of being laid down — schools that constitute important resource centres in Selbu, Røros, Oppdal, Hitra, Frøya and Fosen, resource centres that have competence jobs. Instead of developing and seeing opportunities there, one would rather have a character-based recording, which would put these schools at risk, that many jobs would be lost, and that many students and young people would have to leave home and go to school elsewhere in the county and country. It's not a good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1486	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1491	In the Labour Party, we fully agree with the Council of State that if you want to cut taxes on wealth, you have to bear the responsibility and the possible gain itself. It was then the municipal minister of Malta who reacted promptly and announced a change in the balance of the system, and it was followed up by the government in the municipal bill for next year, at the June reading. We believe that if you cut the taxes on wealth in the municipal taxpayer, it is within municipal autonomy, but you have to bear the risk yourself. We thought it was clear. What I asked for was a explanation of vote, and it concerns proposal No. 41, from Red, for which the Workers' Party will not vote. This is justified by the fact that there is a legal dispute about a dismissal, and we believe that in principle it is the courts that should decide, not us, politically. I have also noticed, and of course I fully agree with the Council of State's assurance that State Building will act in line with the laws and regulations that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1500	We then go to part 2 of the debate on case No. 1 and discusses the budget chapters of the Ministry of Justice and Security and the Ministry of Knowledge on immigration and integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1505	The world has experienced a strange year. It has been difficult for many, and for those who do not have a safe place and a home to be in, it has probably been very bad. And unfortunately, the world has in many ways turned its back on many refugees in this period. I should first like to say that I am pleased that the Norwegian Government – and I think it is the honour of the Christian People's Party – insisted that Norway should accept 3 000 quota refugees. That's good. But Norway should have received 5,000, because that's what the United Nations has asked us to do. Now Norway is in the Security Council, and Norway would not operate with either its own interpretations of obligations under the United Nations Convention on Refugees, as Norway does, or refrain from following up requests when the United Nations asks us both to accept 5000 quota refugees and to remedy the critical situation in Greece. In the Greek islands, many vulnerable asylum seekers live under totally unworthy conditions. Tonight, a three - year - old girl was raped in the new camp at Lesvos. There's no security there. There's not even protection against the weather. In the meantime, the majority and government are sitting on criteria for whom to pick up. Norway could have enjoyed this. We could have contributed more because it is a critical situation for Greece, for the refugees and for the local population. It's not going to solve the refugee problem in the world, but it can help in an acute crisis. I'm recording that several parties here are starting to discuss systems. It's like instead of raising the ladder and helping people when it burns, we're going to start discussing the fire regulations. It's an acute crisis, and we have to help more. Children seeking asylum in Norway also need to be better cared for. There are the issues that are going on and that should be within the regulatory framework that has been adopted. But we don't see that happening. Therefore, SV believes that we need to look at the legislation, because this is contrary to our obligations. We are concerned in our budget that asylum seekers at reception in Norway will have enough money for healthy food. They don't. Reports are available to show that there is misnutrition. There are now non-governmental organisations that need to prepare with food. That shouldn't be necessary. It's small money. We also believe it is important that families who have been refugees and who have strayed from each other should be allowed to apply for family reunification. Therefore, we are opposed to the constraints of the government and the majority, both in the maintenance requirement and in the housing requirement. That's because we're concerned with good integration. That's why we're also very critical of what the government has done when they've thrown immigrant women on social assistance, out of maybe the best program that's gotten women who've been at home, out of work, that's the job. It's completely impossible to understand why that happens. Here you have a very good, well-functioning measure, and then you say you shouldn't get involved, because you're so disadvantaged that you can't get help in a good way. We also believe that there is a need to focus on more advice in high school and extend the mandate to what is now called minority advisors. We believe that this mandate should be extended and that more attention should be paid to that system, because it is one of the measures that seem to work against negative social control. In addition to that, we are promoting proposals for longer courses of qualification, so that those who need it can get into work even when they are on the introduction system. It's very hard to understand why not the majority are involved. We know that we have a very demanding labour market in Norway, where competence is required. It is difficult enough for Norwegians to get a job if you do not have good qualifications, and completing a qualification course means that you are doing much stronger when you are getting a job. These are good suggestions that had made more people involved in the work, and that more people had been able to take care of themselves. I actually thought the majority here was concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1526	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1531	SV has a well-managed immigration and integration policy. That's what they're supposed to have. But what I miss from SV is maybe a little more reflection and how SV thinks we should act to try to slow down the flow of refugees in the world. Representative Andersen showed in his post that much of what we're doing here at home might not solve the big refugee problems. There are 80 million people on the move. Today, there is a debate under way internationally in this respect, for example. third countries, working with countries in the region, imagining that there may be bilateral solutions, i.e. that countries closer to conflict areas can also be supported to do more. I would like to hear Andersen's representative reflect a little on those questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1538	It's a very big challenge for the future, as the representative Thommess didn't mention, and there are climate refugees, who have no international framework to rely on, but who are unfortunately going to become a reality. For example, Norway has supported — and this has been a very strong follower of — for many years. The UN systems, with UNRWA, which finance schools, health services, etc. in e.g. The Palestinians in Jordan. So this is not foreign, but the problem now is that the neighbourhoods are congested. They can't do any more, they need more download, so there's one thing we have to do. The second is that I imagine that this government, at least, has tried to make agreements with regimes that do not respect human rights at all. We can't accept that at all. There are many problems with this, but one of the things we have to do is follow the UN. If we're the only country, Norway should.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1547	Unlike the previous replicator, I might not have used the word ‘reworked’ on the immigration policy of SV. They have a burning commitment to asylum seekers and refugees, and that is what they should have for, but the solutions I often do not seem to be in line with the wish that as much as possible be better. It is true that in all these important debates the representatives of SV are high on the job and always want to, one might say that Norway should do more and pick up more, without being involved in the debate about what it is that would help the most. When you follow SV in these debates, there may seem to be no limits. We heard it was said 3,000 and 5,000 quota refugees now. Yeah, you have to put a number somewhere, but I'm really excited about where the limit really goes, when we have 80 million people on the run, and the only thing you're talking about is how many to pick up. A limit of 5,000 has been set for Norway. What's the reason for that number? What are the assessments behind that figure of 5,000 people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1561	The difference between the SV and the Progress Party is that we want a civilised world order based on UN human rights and the conventions to which Norway has committed itself. The number 5,000 is based on the request from the United Nations to Norway on how many quota refugees we should pick up. Then SV believes that this is what we should do, in order to secure that system. It's not perfect, it's got a lot of problems, but to date it's the best we have. In addition, we believe that we should help in critical situations, such as this. are now in Greece, in order to avoid destabilising Greece, to avoid humanitarian disasters and to avoid overloading the local population there. It is a reality that, for example: Lebanon, as the representative and I have visited together, is a very congested country, a very small country. This means that Norway cannot close its borders, but must share responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1568	Then I interpret the answer as being based solely on what the United Nations has said, and I have not taken any assessments in SV of how much capacity Norway actually has, how well you succeed in integrating, and how much a figure of 5,000 will help in the big situation. Yes, we've been visiting refugee camps together, and it was interesting to see. In some countries things are going well, you get a lot, in other countries the will is not the same. We see that many people are on the run in the neighborhoods. Countries such as Jordan plainly says that they have the capacity, they want to help, where the refugees can live as long as they wish, they're not going to coerce anyone. As far as I got with me, there was no one from the authorities there who asked Norway to pick up more, but they asked for more money. Does not the representative then see that it would help much more to put in the efforts of those countries that actually themselves say they have capacity and want to contribute?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1575	As big as the refugee crisis is in the world, we actually have to do both. That's what the Progress Party doesn't understand. SV has not been against helping Jordan, at all, but I think the representative must have some selective memory when he has obviously forgotten that those who were there would not get any help if the international market were not set up. The Palestinians wanted only a few jobs, not all – they have been there for generations without being allowed to rot. Yes, Jordan is doing a lot of good, and that's why we have to assist Jordan, but it's also not a sustainable system for them unless the international community supports it wholeheartedly. We have recently seen that it has been cut in UNRWA in support of the Palestinian society that has been there for generations, where forces close to the Progress Party have helped to remove that support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1582	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1587	For every year that goes and we discuss refugee policy in Stortinget, there are even more people on the run in the world. Now the situation becomes even more demanding. The pandemic has affected us in Norway in all possible ways: health, job losses, economics — no one is affected. But we are lucky to live in a country with the social democratic model of society, with a strong welfare state, strong trade unions and safe economic governance. We can imagine all the countries that house millions of refugees who don't have the same safety net. Regression to the economy of these countries will make the situation very serious, both for their own country and for the refugees who live there. Nor is it surprising that many countries will reduce their own efforts both in the neighbourhoods and through the UN quota system due to the pandemic. Then it is important that some countries show their way. It's about solidarity for people on the run, it's about common good, and it's about common interest. The alternative could be a new uncontrolled asylum stream that will have fatal consequences for all people on the run and weaken the asylum facility, as we saw in 2015 and 2016. Today's government has left refugee policy to the right-wing populists in the Progress Party. It is really those who govern the refugee policy to the government – not the Right, not the Left and not the Christian People's Party – and it is sad. It is now that we need a safe, predictable and fair management of refugee policy. Think, the government spent several weeks in a time of mass redundancies and bankruptcies, where our municipalities spend time saving lives and health and controlling the infection, on the following: that the Progress Party demanded zero quota refugees, and that the Advance Party demanded cutbacks in the aid budget. The result was – after several weeks of squabbling, which everyone knows – $1 and 48 cents cheaper beer and the current level of quota refugees. The Labour Party's refugee policy is well known. It will contribute to a more cohesive refugee policy in which we not only set up a few, but too many, and where we stand in the neighbourhoods that really need all the support now, in order to provide the necessary humanitarian aid. It's about roofing over the head, water, food and medicine, but also about projects that give the recipient countries the opportunity to 'boost' their own economy, and that give the millions living in a limbo the opportunity to work and support themselves and the family. That is why, through the aid budget, we have built up a €2.5 billion solidarity pot. kr. Our ambition is to raise it to 5 billion. kr. We don't cooperate with parties that want to cut in aid. We also want the conversion of asylum and refugee policy. Norway's main priority shall be quota refugees. One of the things I'm most proud of with my selection that put forward a new social-democratic refugee policy was that it was possible to change the whole debate in Norway: that the most fair and sustainable way of accepting refugees in a world of 80 million refugees is through the UN's safe and fair cooling system. It's about the family I heard about in Jordan, who had a six-year-old son who had a short time left to live if he didn't get needed medical attention quickly. That family said yes to Norway. They had never been able to travel to Norway on their own; they had never been able to afford to come to Norway themselves. Or what about the municipality I spoke to recently, which received a family from South Sudan where mother is a nurse and father is a doctor – and imprisoned. We do not see it on the TV screen, but these are children and families living in a hopeless situation. Some will claim that how we use the resources of refugee policy, never has anything to say, there is no contradiction between the number of asylum arrivals and the number of quota refugees Norway can accept, and that there is no contradiction between large asylum arrivals and the efforts Norway can make in the neighbourhoods and countries of destination. It's tricking people. Large arrivals of asylum will lead to fewer quotas and less effort in the neighbourhoods. Uncontrolled asylum flows will also allow the traffickers and the deadway across the Mediterranean to continue. This is why the Labour Party has promoted a number of solutions that are in line with our policy of precisely giving more quota refugees priority and commitment in the neighbourhood. When there are low numbers for asylum arrivals, we propose to increase the number of quota refugees from 3,000 to 3,500. It will do Norway the best in the world – it is solidarity. When many countries cut their efforts and the right-wing populations in Norway demand cuts, the Labour Party proposes more because we have to stand up for people on the run. But we're going to do it in a fair and predictable way. Several families with children, which are the most vulnerable, will receive help from Norway. What kind of god they believe in, or whether they don't believe in any god, shouldn't decide whether they get to Norway as quota refugees. We have faith that the UN quota system selects the most vulnerable children's families. A policy that we give priority to quota refugees will also ensure that we can better manage integration. The municipalities will be prepared for how many are coming, and we must succeed in integrating better than today's government has. Still, many people are unable to support themselves. We believe that quota refugees should learn the Norwegian language, the Norwegian working life, the Norwegian gender equality society and Norwegian democracy before they arrive. Together with a thorough assessment of skills and a better matching of living conditions, it will ensure a faster way into working life. Onwards to labour immigration and the fight against social dumping: the Labour Party believes an organised working life is crucial. It is alarming that the level of organisation is so low among immigrants in Norway, and especially among migrant workers, especially in relation to parts of our working life where there are cowboy activities and people are being exploited roughly. This undermines decent and organised working life and prevents the integration of migrant workers into Norwegian society. Some companies show way and arrange free Norwegian training for immigrants, but far from all. It's expensive, and when you get a terrible wage, it's hard for everyone to give this priority. For this reason, we propose the establishment of regional Norwegian training centres in cooperation with the parties and non-governmental organisations, such as Norway. Caritas, where Norwegian training and other relevant offers are to be offered to migrant workers. The offer shall be free of charge for organised workers. It's about the fight against social dumping, it's about increasing the level of organisation, and it's about integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1612	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1617	The representative Gharahkhani also presented the international efforts of the Workers' Party and pointed out the major complications of the refugee flows, which we see coming in wave after wave, unfortunately with greater and greater frequency. I would like to ask the representative of Gharakhani about the same question that I asked the representative of Karin Andersen: what can we do in the neighbourhoods to curb the flow of refugees and perhaps also to deal with the pressure against our own countries and Europe? We know there are discussions going on in the European Union that, among other things, is about bilateral agreements, which can be about supporting quota refugees, not by taking them to a European country, but by staying in the countries where they are. Is there a type of agreement that the Workers' Party would expect to conclude?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1624	The Labour Party, as is certainly known to the representative Thommess, has proposed increasing the number of quota refugees to 3,500 and a solidarity pot of 2.5 billion. kr to the surrounding areas now. It is important for Norway to have credibility in concluding such cooperation agreements as with, for example: third country, that we are setting up. What surprises me is that when the Workers' Party made a number of proposals in the main hall last week, which was about Norway's main priority being quota refugees, because it is the fairest way to accept refugees, and because we are not going to facilitate the dangerous death path across the Mediterranean, the Right chose to vote against those proposals. It surprises me, but it doesn't really surprise me, because what we've seen lately is that the Right no longer has a refugee policy itself. One side has been left to the right-wing populists in the Progress Party, and the other side has been left to the Left and Christian People's Party. It's sad for the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1629	I notice the concern for the Right Refugee Policy. I think we're good at it. Then it's clear that in a coalition and in order to get a majority in the Storting you have to listen to more. It will also be the case for the Workers' Party if you come into government from the harvest of, because there is quite a large crack on the red-green side, too, from the Center Party to the SV. Gharahkhani just said that they would increase the number of quota refugees to 3,500. It is possible that it is part of the glide flight you think you can meet completely natural SV requirements of 5000, which are related to the United Nations requests, which I believe the Workers' Party is also in favour of. What can we expect of immigration policy for a red-green government, where compromises are also to be found? Will the Workers' Party, for example, increase the number of quota refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1638	What the Labour Party is proposing in order to increase the number of quota refugees is entirely in line with our policy. In the case of low asylum arrivals in Norway, we propose to increase the number of quota refugees, because there is a link between the number of asylum arrivals and the possibility of receiving more quota refugees. We are also putting in this binding solidarity pot, because if we are going to have cooperation agreements with other countries in order to have predictability at the border and do this fairly, those countries need to know that Norway is actually making up. In that case, the Right should have actually supported the Workers' Party's proposal to accept more quota refugees and to support a solidarity pot. But as I say, when you leave politics to the right-wing populists, you don't get a predictable and fair policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1643	The representative of Gharahkhani said that the government has left refugee policy to the Progress Party. It would have been very happy if it had voted. But it's probably true, as Gharakhani is concerned, that all the parties on the Stortinget have gone after the Progress Party in this field. Everyone has learned a lot about how to deal with the policy, not least the Workers' Party, which has basically copied all our policies, except in relation to the issue of quota refugees, and has really not developed any of it itself. But that's very good, and I want to give credit to the representative Gharahkhani, who has made such a strong effort to get closer to the Progress Party in immigration policy. The representative of Gharahkhani also said that the Labour Party's refugee policy is known. Well, we had a little debate on this topic a few days ago, and later that same day we got two outings locally in the Workers' Party. The rapporteurs were out and said that this would be settled at the national meeting, and the AUF protested. Then I would like to clarify who is right: Is it immigration policy spokesman in the Workers' Party or is it grassroots, who protests?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1651	The policy of the Labour Party is well known and unanimously adopted at the national meeting, and it is well known for this expansion and the outside world. There is a difference between the Labour Party and the Advance Party. The Progress Party wants zero quota refugees. We are proposing to increase the number of quota refugees. The Progress Party wants to cut aid, we want to maintain our efforts, but actually increase it too, in view of the solidarity pot. The difference between the Labour Party and the Progress Party is that the Progress Party will not be able to find solutions that will allow us to gain control at the border, because no country will agree with Norway if we do not stand up and show solidarity. We also saw in 2015–2016, under the leadership of the Progress Party, that Norway lost control at the borders. If we are to get predictable and fair solutions, Norway must be involved in the work, and we do not get that with right-wing populists. But as we know, right-wing populists are never concerned with solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1658	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1663	The number of displaced people in the world today is estimated at 80 million – an incredible number, passing the imagination of what human tragedies we are facing. No country can take responsibility for all of these, and the world's refugees are calling for an international society with the capacity to cooperate in taking joint responsibility. Of course, the UN plays a central role. For Norway, however, the EU will always be an important precursor to how we need to design our policies in this area as well. Today, the migration pact is being negotiated in the EU, and it is a pity that Norway does not have a stronger position to participate in this work. Norway is today taking a significant responsibility both by accepting refugees to our country and through various financial contributions to the outreach of refugee work. Nevertheless, up to the 80 million, I often get the feeling that the discussion that we have about 3,000 or 5,000 is getting pretty small, even though, of course, it means a lot to the people involved. The questions are, however, about today's thinking brings us and the international community closer to good solutions, or whether it is necessary and timely to think new. A theme of the EU debate is the issue of third country cooperation. Here on the mountain we have been a bit of an asset to this thinking – I think because we have not wanted to leave an impression of reluctance to house refugees in our own country. I still think the time has come to take this discussion on a more nuanced level. By doing so, I believe that while we are going to continue the long lines of Norwegian immigration policy, we must also show greater interest in the neighbourhoods in addition to often acute financial contributions to refugee work. Economic assistance programmes, bilateral residence agreements and decent living conditions for defined groups or persons, return agreements, trade agreements and industrial development are topics that we should be able to look at in the same way as the EU and Denmark do. The right does not have the answers to this, but follows the discussions in the EU with interest. However, it is essential for us to respect the fundamental principles of legal certainty and our international obligations. The right stands for a restrictive, responsible and legally secure immigration policy within the framework of Norway’s international obligations. Our main objective and that of the government in immigration policy is that we should have the lowest possible number of asylum seekers without having to stay, that we should have a quick return of those who are without legal residence, and that we should have the lowest possible number of people living in the country on the wrong basis, or with the wrong identity. On the basis of these objectives, based on the statistics available, we must say that the government's policy is successful. Inflows have decreased, processing has improved, and control has improved. Then it's important that we accept those who often find their home in our country after a traumatic and superficial life. Through good integration, new citizens can be a great resource for our country. If we don't succeed, the height of the drop is high. The main objectives of integration policy are to help our new citizens get to work or education as quickly as possible. The government has taken up this field and is currently implementing the major change in integration policy since 2003, first through the integration strategy and now through the recently adopted law on integration, which is being implemented. In the draft budget for 2021, the government proposes to strengthen a wide range of measures. Norwegian training and strengthening of the introduction programme are central. The goal is at least 70 pst. the participants in the introduction programme shall be in work or training the year following the end of the programme. The statistics tell us that this is within reach, but women's participation in the world of work is a challenge. Therefore, women-related interventions are important. Kindergarten, enhanced cooperation with volunteering and further investment in Jobjesen are examples of this. Integration is about finding new frameworks for life. It's about school, kindergartens, leisure and getting acquainted with a new culture. The scope of measures, as proposed by the government, is therefore necessary, not least in terms of raising awareness. In order for us to succeed, we must in practice be able to be a society characterised by tolerance, roughness and opportunities for all citizens, regardless of their origin. If we do that, we give room for the individual of us, including our new inhabitants, to develop the best in itself in meeting the communities they live in through life. The societies that power this will also be the winners of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1680	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1685	We're going to have to keep changing the line chord a little bit. As you know — it sounds like this at least — the Right Workers' Party's view is that the most fair way for Norway to accept refugees is through the quota refugee system. However, I have registered that the representative Trellevik, who is also an immigration spokesperson for the Right, went out a few months ago proposing that Norway should not accept any quota refugees at all, i.e. at the same level as the representative Listhaug and the Progress Party have been. However, the government believes, and Erna Solberg, the Prime Minister, clearly stated that Norway should accept 3 000 quota refugees. There has been some uncertainty about what the Right primary policy for this is. Is it a result of pressure that you go for 3,000 quota refugees? Is there an increase, or is it so that the right does not want any quota refugees at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1694	Right wants to rely on the system of quota refugees. We've been doing that all those years, and there's no change in it. We believe it is important to have good cooperation with the United Nations and its agencies. Norway is known for this. The system in place is an important system for finding good candidates to come to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1699	Solving the world's refugee problems is not done in a coward, but we have a lot of experience in the field. The Progress Party and the Right have managed to put in place a lot of good policies that we've agreed on, and that's good. But it's still a long way to go. We see that death traffic across the Mediterranean is still high, and it is increasing. There are many, many thousands of people who have lost their lives trying to get asylum in Europe. Australia had similar problems until 2013, when boat refugees largely took the trip and put their lives at risk. Many drowned on the road. When it had been going on long enough, Australia said that now it was over, no boat refugees came to stay in Australia if they sought asylum. They introduced a scheme similar to the one outlined by the Progress Party. From that day until today, almost zero boat migrants have lost their lives. So politics has something to say. Then the question is, is there a solution that the Right could have been discussing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1708	Now I'm not ready to take a position on the exact Australian solution. I just didn't get into it at all. But I think the thematics are very interesting and necessary, because even if we accept a lot of people in terms of population compared to other countries, we see that the international community does not follow up. We see that the traditional way of relieving refugee camps is not working, and we see huge accumulations of refugees who remain for generations. Clearly, this is not something the world community can live with over time, and we owe those who sit there, other solutions. Then, the experiments that Denmark is doing, as the EU is working on, are trying to find solutions where one can work more specifically and bilaterally towards these countries in a more committed way, perhaps both ways, one way to go, and it is right-wing interested in looking further into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1715	Over time, the settlement of asylum seekers has tended to take place in the largest municipalities. Many have a high proportion of immigrants and major area challenges. Problems also arise with negative social control and what many call ghettosis. In some areas, we see a huge drop-out from high school, especially among immigrant boys, and that leads to a permanent alienation. Small district municipalities have shown good results, both in terms of getting all into education and work, and in terms of getting them into the community, participating in sports, other voluntary activities, etc. While good integration is of course the most important, widespread housing is also good district policy. Does the representative agree with the Central Party that refugees should be settled as far as possible in small and medium-sized municipalities in order to address this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1722	My and Right's starting point is that immigrants have to settle as far as possible where they get the best offers. It is the municipalities that can point to the best results in Norwegian training and integration elsewhere. Unfortunately, in Kommune-Norway there is quite a difference in the quality of the offer given. With a clear objective that we would like people to get out of work as soon as possible, therefore, the quality and content of this overall. I agree with the representative of Greni that there are many small municipalities that deliver very well on this. You can go to Förde – and to Florø, not least – and see great results. They have dense networks of volunteering that support immigrants, and very good results. So this I think might be something that maybe also municipalities that have some muscles, would be able to work more on, and get new residents, which I think would be loving.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1729	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1735	Our job is to spend the money as efficiently as possible, so that they benefit as many people as possible. People's taxes are to be used carefully, and this is true in most areas of the government budget. However, there are few other items of such importance as those for immigration and integration. All the parties represented in this room want to contribute as positively as possible and that our priorities will benefit as much as possible. Nevertheless, the path to the goal is very different. We have to be so honest to admit that the wrong priorities for these items can have fatal consequences. The asylum crisis in 2015 taught us that politics matters. In 2015 and 2016, more than 8 000 people drowned in the attempt to reach Europe. At that time the Progress Party was expelled because we said that we must guard Europe's external borders. We have to remove the rescue boats in the Mediterranean and put those that are being picked up into land where they traveled from. This was at the time a policy that could sound strict, but in reality it was a policy that would save lives. Although we were sent out for our solutions in 2015 and 2016, it is a fact that these solutions were introduced shortly later in Europe. The boundaries were guarded. The lifeboats were withdrawn, and an agreement was reached with the Libyan coastguard to put migrants picked up in a Libyan port. The result of this policy and several other measures that were implemented is that, shortly after that, 3,000 lives per year are saved – 3,000 fewer annual drownings than in the peak year 2016. This tells me that policies that get out of control to be cold and hearty can actually be the policy that saves most lives. And what's more important than saving human lives? It's often been said that people don't flee for fun, and it's also quite right, but it's probably right to say that there are very many people who don't migrate because they flee from war and persecution. Many of those travelling do not have a real need for protection, and studies also show that many of them themselves are aware of it. The largest group travelling over the most dangerous route in the Mediterranean is Tunisians, followed by a wide range of nationalities which normally do not have a need for protection. Over the eastern route to Greece, there are far more in the group believed to be in need of protection. The picture is complex, although there are good points of view to say that most of those who travel do not really have a real need for protection. No matter why people travel, it is a fact that the journey is deadly. Whatever the problem, it is not illegal asylum trips to Europe that can solve it. To save lives, policies need to be changed. We are facing a huge refugee problem in the world. We have to do little about this when illegal asylum immigration is what we have to spend all our energy on. We must be so honest and realise that as long as there are huge differences in the level of welfare in Europe and parts of the world, people will try to get here. As long as it is possible to stay by applying for asylum, very many people will try. Introducing a legal migration path, as many have mentioned, is unrealistic. It just means that more people will try, and it's not given that these are the ones that need the most. That's why there are not many solutions. Asylum cannot solve the problem. It reinforces the problem. The asylum system, as it is today, must be phased out. Refugee problems need to be solved in the region where the problems arise. Much stronger and more targeted efforts are needed to help refugees in the neighbourhood. Protection must be provided in the nearest safe country where the world community provides the necessary resources and capacity. Only in this way can we get a restriction on a misguided policy and move on to start saving human lives and giving hope for a better future. At a time when the nation is in crisis, it is a wrong priority to pick up 3,000 quota refugees. By picking up quota refugees to Norway, we can be absolutely sure that we are providing help to the lowest possible number of people for a sum of money. We should look at developments in countries around us and make sure not to make the same mistakes. Sweden has lost complete control because of a naive and failed immigration policy. Of course, the number coming is the main driving factor for good or poor integration. But it also has a lot to say how we treat those who are coming. Immigrants legally resident in Norway are well received. Norway is a rusty country, with inclusive and tolerant inhabitants. We still have to be. People who have fled from war and misery will receive help and support, but the integration results and the greatest effort are on each immigrant himself. Some time ago, we heard Gro Harlem Brundtland answer a question about why more stringent demands had not been made on immigrants. Well, that's because you were told by the experts that you shouldn't do it. That angle of incidence is going to create problems. Low expectations of the immigrant population are destructive and discriminatory. Unfortunately, we see time and time again that fear of touch makes us accept things that we could do with. During the coronary apathy, it is very clear how important it is that as much as possible in a society speak the same language and are active members of society. Unfortunately, fear of contact caused the government to be too late to give as clear a signal to the immigrant population as it was to the rest of the population. If we are to succeed in integrating, we must be clear and clear in the expectations of all citizens. We can't have double standards. We can't think that someone won't make it anyway, and therefore make lower demands. In Norway, the housing provider is large in some municipalities. It is also true that most municipalities have a view that they are among the best in the country to live and the best in the country to integrate. Unfortunately, there is a lot of evidence that they really don't know what they're doing, and they don't have control of the results. The rapporteurs from the Workers' Party and the Centre have been fighting to settle refugees. Someone thinks they'll make money for it. Others think they're doing a good job. But if you don't have a good device for good integration and you know a lot more about the integration results than how many come to work after the end of the introduction program, you do a lot of a bear service. Recently, we could read that the municipality of Lavangen, a municipality of 1,000 inhabitants, has lived in 60 refugees only in 2016. The municipality was then run by the Center Party. Now they're run by the Workers' Party, and they've both agreed on this line. Now, the costs of the residents are going to be half the municipality's annual budget. The rapporteur says that they do not regret the priority, but that someone should have told them about the consequences. Unfortunately, this position appears to be leading in many Workers' Party and Center Party-led municipalities. It's an irresponsibility that we can't accept. I can assure you that it has been informed of the consequences. The progress party, both local and national, has, on the one hand, said what this can and will lead to if you do not have good control. It has, as so many times before, been met with accusations of xenophobia and racism. It is sad when local representatives who have worked hard to inform leading politicians about the consequences are met in this way and it turns out that they got it right later. I hope that, in the future, we can stop accusing each other of having wrong intentions behind what we do, stop making accusations of xenophobia because you have different devices on the policy and different solutions. We have a long way to go. Policies have been changed a lot, but if we are to succeed, we must make a lot of effort further. In fact, we need to look at the developments we have had in several European countries that have not taken the problems seriously early enough. It is the only party that takes seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1772	The ability of individual immigrants to get a job and to support themselves and their families is the most important objective we need to achieve with integration policy. No political task is more important than getting people a job. Work is the key to the rest. Cash support is a barrier to integration. The Progress Party has also agreed to this. Nevertheless, the Progress Party supports a government budget with increased cash support expenditure year after year. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1779	Cash support has been a good arrangement that has given freedom of choice to a lot of families. It's a system that works well in our society initially. It's also sadly so that that system may be the first system that's in danger of going because we haven't succeeded in integrating. We have had too much immigration and too much integration. Then you get results that make some arrangements used in a way that's not good for the big community. It keeps some immigrant women away from work. It also keeps some children who should go into ordinary kindergarten, away from kindergarten and thus important language training. That's why the Progress Party has been one of the first parties to see if we can find other solutions. Many years ago, when I was in the City Council of Drammen, I made a proposal that we must demand that we earn the right to it first by working to get it. I record that the latest draft of our party programme has included that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1788	I could imagine following up a little bit where we left off in our line change, and it goes on just this with the use of third countries. I have understood that – the representative of Engen-Helgheim says whether I have understood correctly – the Progress Party sees fit to go quite far in this with third-country agreements, that it is possible to imagine third-country agreements where refugees who come to Norway are placed, that is, they are sent back to the region, to such countries, and perhaps even that the application procedures for asylum applications can take place there. My question to the representative is whether it is right for the Progress Party to think so, whether the party believes it is realistic to have such agreements, and whether it would be in line with the right of asylum if asylum were to be dealt with in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1795	It is absolutely right that we want an approach as described. We want more agreements with third countries. We need asylum centres in third countries. It shall not be possible to seek asylum by meeting there. This would mean that very many people only meet in the neighbourhoods, seek asylum and stay in Norway. That should be the opposite: those who may come to Norway and seek asylum must be sent to an asylum centre outside Europe, where the application is being dealt with. If that application is granted, the protection in a third country with which we have an agreement shall be granted. It is fully realistic and fully in line with the Australian model, which has worked very well to prevent asylum seekers from putting their lives into Australia. It is also very important that such a solution be followed up with strong efforts in the areas of protection. We've also taken that into account and are going to follow up with strong efforts for those who provide protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1802	The representative did not respond if he thought it was realistic to make such agreements. We are probably talking about countries that are quite burdened up in advance. This won't be to stop a flow of refugees across the sea either, because you're talking about those who've already come here. I don't think the Right is in that gallery, to say it like that, and I also think that we want to question – and I want to dig a little – whether this can really be in line with Norway's obligations relating to the right of asylum, that is, whether we can imagine that we have that kind of treatment elsewhere than here. Has the Progress Party worked more on this, or is this a theme that the Progress Party must also look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1809	This is fully in line with all international conventions and obligations. It's done in Australia. They have been criticised for the treatment in those countries and in those places where asylum seekers have been protected, but no criticism of the system and the practice of the principle. It is fully feasible to implement, and it will stop the inflow. This is the case with all the other policies and policies adopted, that it will apply from the date of adoption and from now on, and that it will not have retroactive effect on those who have already received asylum, so it is quite clear that nothing should be done with those who have already received a different treatment. This is a policy that I am absolutely convinced is going to apply in Europe. There are going to be many rounds of different European solutions being discussed now, but I can't see that any of these will be able to solve the major problems of death travel across the Mediterranean, just this solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1818	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1823	The Central Party will conduct a responsible and decent refugee and asylum policy based on our international obligations, humane traditions and our national capacity. Getting good integration is a shared responsibility. Those who come here must want to be part of the Norwegian community, we who live here, must accept them well, and not least must be able to provide the municipalities with an economic capacity to achieve good integration. The aim, of course, is for everyone to get the most out of work or education. One of many things that can be extra demanding after the coronary apathy is this with integration, more specifically getting people into work and enough practice places for everyone. Many industries have an incredibly tough day, and the number of bankruptcies is expected to rise in the future. It will make the labour market tougher for many, including our new countrymen who are going to have their first job or first practice place. This is a challenge that we need to pay the necessary attention, and where the Storting must provide both resources for practical areas and means of conversion and business-internal training, package of measures to keep the wheels going, etc. In order to ensure a Norway with small differences, regionalisation is an important tool. It's about putting in extra resources and effort in places where there's a high risk that many ports are in an outhouse. In 2006 the red-green government, with the prime minister Åslaug Haga, launched the first area operation in Groruddalen, Drammen, Bergen, Trondheim and Oslo. In retrospect, Stavanger and Oslo's inner east have also become part of the initiative. The aim is prevention, and the challenges remain high in many places. One reason we have not reached any more with the work is that the bet has been weakened since the government change in 2013. Lack of targeting of measures is another reason. Young people who fall out of school want practical work, but today the job market is more difficult than ever. Young people who have not completed education have difficulty getting into work. There are fewer and fewer jobs for unskilled workers, and the open EEA labour market has made it much more difficult. Now comes the coronary situation on top of it all. In addition, from January 2016, the government abolished the possibility of taking action places with action grants for young people aged 16 to 18. The centre party is occupied with catching those outside and making sure they can fill their time with some meaning. We therefore have a significant increase in the funding for area deployment in our alternative budget for next year. The Central Party has recently promoted a proposal for a representative to strengthen regional activities and to put in place measures to get young people who fall outside, into work and activity. I hope the other parties are interested in joining forces with a strengthening of the measures in the area initiatives. That's what young people deserve. The Norwegian housing model, where municipalities receive refugees following local decisions, has been very successful and should be continued. It is important that scattered settlements are prioritised in order to relieve municipalities facing integration challenges. Small communities are good at integration. The risk of so-called ghettoisation is not present in the smallest municipalities, challenges with negative social control are much less, and participation in the community through voluntary organisations, sports, etc. is much bigger. Therefore, residence should preferably take place in district municipalities that have shown good integration performance. Voluntary organisations play a key role in integration. Volunteership creates the good meeting places where people can meet for joint activity, across inequalities. The centre party is committed to ensuring good conditions for volunteering. In addition to strengthening a number of individual organisations and basic support for children’s and youth organisations, we propose to strengthen the VAT compensation scheme for voluntary organisations. Better VAT compensation has been delayed in order to increase activity. Finally, I would like to mention the centre party's priority of quota refugees. The centre party believes that Norway should contribute actively to a hopeless situation for people in need and in flight. In our alternative budget proposal, we set aside funds to receive 3,000 quota refugees, as does the government, but the central party opens up that Norway, in consultation with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, can redispatch up to one third of these funds for use in the UN's own camps, where the need is enormous.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1844	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1850	The right does not tend to complain about tight budgeting in the public sector, and the centre party has delivered it so much, with large cuts in red tape in many areas. Then it's interesting to look at the seriousness of the cuts, whether it really is such that you should be able to cut. In the budget, we'll find a cut of 31.8 million. kr at UDI – in a situation where UDI really has its hands full, and where we know that the majority of the costs are in proceedings, because there is compensation of employees that takes place there. We know that we get a larger number of applications for dual citizenship, and we know that the foreign administration is struggling with long stays. So my question is, what assessment underlie this cut? And are you worried about the longer term of the representative's proceedings?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1859	It is a fact that we have never had so few asylum seekers and so little influx of asylum seekers that we have had in recent years. There is no indication that next year will be a peak year, for example. like 2015. Of course, it's impossible to predict, but at least that's not what's predicted so far. After the asylum crisis that took place in 2015, we built up the capacity quite strongly, and it is natural to reduce the capacity once the influx of asylum has been severely reduced. Of course, we are concerned that the processing time should not be extended, but we must also have a capacity in the UDI that varies with the influx of asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1868	Now, UDI does much more than deal with asylum applications. They deal with all citizenship applications, and we know that after the rules on the possibility of double citizenship came, we have to expect that there will be a lot of applications there, and we know that there are long stays. It's not long since I saw a concrete example: a Spanish lawyer who works in Norway, who's been waiting for two and a half years for treatment of his citizenship application, and who's getting a little laugh about things getting out. I think it must be important to make sure that we keep the balances down. It's probably also a little bit of risk sport to budget for next year and expect that we don't get any new influxes of refugees. It can come very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1875	It is clear that none of us can predict the influx of asylum next year, but in 2015 the Stortinget rose very quickly around and provided additional appropriations when it was needed. Of course, the center party would agree if there were an inflow like the one we had in 2015. There is no doubt that the entire Storting will be involved in rebuilding the capacity of the UDI. I don't think there'll be a question about that. As for the waiting time for the treatment of double citizenship, I don't know about it, but I happened to be with a physiotherapist earlier this week who said that she had applied for double citizenship because she wanted to vote at the big elections for the fall, and it sounded as if there were great opportunities to get it right. So I'm assuming two and a half years of waiting is not what's common, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1882	I was actually going to ask about this with area bet, because I think it's strange that there's been such a great success as it was drawn out here, but there's a debate about it later, so we'll get to it then. Then I intend to ask a question about what was said that housing by local decisions has been a success. As I mentioned in my post, Lavangen settled in the municipality of 60 refugees in one year – a municipality that has 1000 inhabitants. According to the number of inhabitants, it has to be close to Norway's record. The costs now amount to half the municipality's annual budget, and you're desperate. You may have been unhappy too, but there is a great chance that you are living in such a small municipality. I find it hard to imagine that such an outcome can be regarded as a success. I think it is a tragedy that a municipality has put itself in such a situation. How can the representative explain that this is a success?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1889	Now I think the representative has misunderstood it with half of the annual budget, because it was probably over a ten- or fifteen-year period that they came up in a half-yearly budget. But it's a very exciting situation, and it's a large proportion of the budget. I think the state should go in and contribute there. This is not an immigration challenge; it is a child protection challenge. The challenge for Lavangen would have been just as great if there had been a troupe family of eight children who had lost their parents and the kids had been placed in foster homes in other municipalities. It's really irrelevant where the kids come from. It's a big challenge in all municipalities where you get a lot of foster home-placed kids, and where the host municipality, the municipality of residence, gets stuck with that expenditure. The centre party will call for a ceiling on expenditure for municipalities with young children's homes, because in some municipalities there is such a large proportion of the budget that services to the rest of the population go beyond, regardless of where the children come from. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1896	The President must remember the speaking time of 1 minute in the change of line. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1903	Few of us think about how much we do in our everyday life that connects us together as humans and as a society. It happens at the store, at work and at school, through neighbourhoods, in the community and in non-governmental organisations. Our job is to ensure that all people living in Norway are given the opportunity and help, if necessary, to enter into such relationships. In Norway, we are good at integration, yet we must be honest with the challenges. Those who come to Norway at an adult age have a particularly big challenge in the workplace. It is unfortunate when we know that these people often have important knowledge of the professional life of their home country that they are not allowed to use here in Norway. I'm glad we have a government and a government council that takes these challenges seriously. With the Left in government, we are now working on an integration reform that addresses the challenges facing new countrymen who are going to get to know Norway. Overall, the government prioritises measures in the area of integration of approximately 130 million. kr. Among other things, this includes: strengthening of Norwegian intervention and Jobsjansen. Earlier in the autumn, the Stortinget passed a law providing better introduction and better Norwegian training for immigrants to participate in the labour market and support themselves. The introduction programme will, to a greater extent than at present, qualify refugees for the skills requirements of the Norwegian labour market. Integrating and asylum policy makes our feelings felt because it is about people and human dignity. At Stortinget there are parties that share the primary position of the Left in immigration policy, but that make up a minority, and I'm going to be honest that the Left in its primary positions differs from other parties that we work with in government and on the Stortinget. At the same time, I would like to stress that in integration policy we have the same objective – that those who come to Norway have good opportunities to integrate into society. Nearly 80 million people were driven away by the end of 2019. The main reason for this is war and conflict, but with the prospect of climate change and more natural disasters in addition, we must expect even greater refugee flows. The left has been made aware of Norway’s acceptance of 3 000 quota refugees per year, and it is very good that the EU is now taking a look at the migration challenges. Norway must follow its work closely and be ready to deliver, for this must be resolved together. At the same time, it is important to stress that Norway has neither the capacity nor the opportunity to receive a number of refugees sufficient to play a decisive role in reducing the flow of refugees. This isn't going to go over. When we receive 50 refugees from camps in Greece, it's important for them, but it doesn't solve the situation in any way, and it will in no way remove the challenge that Greek authorities face. Therefore, it is important to bear in mind that Norway also contributes 650 million. kr for asylum management, legal certainty and dignity of reception in Greece, and that we have contributed with medical personnel. This is money that has contributed to a better situation for the refugees. Immigrant debates tend to develop into a struggle for who wants the most for people on the run. Often we stand back and discuss the number of people Norway is willing to accept, but we need to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. I am not in doubt that we all share the same empathy for people who need a safe port, and I hope for a debate that reflects just that. Then it's always the opposition's privilege to have more money for integration and demand that Norway accept more refugees. Then we also have to remember what the same parties did when they were in government. With pressure from the Left and Christian People's Party, in 2014 we received a change in the Foreign Affairs Act § 38 in order to better care for long-term asylum children, and the conclusion was crystal clear: The children who have rooted will be few. Fortunately, after this change in the legislation, we now have very few such issues, but sometimes they happen. We believe that Norway must have an asylum and immigration policy that gives predictability to those people who are in a hopeless situation and who are waiting for a fateful decision. Right now we see a case of Mustafa in Asker who has lived in Norway for 13 years, and where it is very difficult – based on the information known in the media – to understand that he does not get to stay based on the rules that the Left and Christian People's Party fought for in 2014. With the Left in government, we have put in place an integration policy and an asylum and immigration policy that has been significantly improved after eight years of red-green governance, and it is worth noting. Parties that had every opportunity to implement their policies in government are now in the strep of government, which, after all, is pursuing a more liberal and humane immigration policy than we have ever seen. As long as the Left sits in government, we will be a guarantor of a human immigration policy, and we will work hard to ensure that the legislation becomes predictable as far as possible. At the same time, we recognise that as a small party in the government, we do not always support our primary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1928	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1933	I find it sad that the Left said no to the Workers' Party's proposal for 500 more quota refugees and no to the Labour Party's proposal for 2.5 billion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which he has drawn up on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Then it is said that the Left has left the board of directors to the Advance Party without supporting joint sales. I also record that the Left is cursed by the Workers' Party's proposal to distinguish between Convention status, asylum, and subsidiary protection. But if this is such a bad proposal, why has the Left in the Government proposed this precisely in a preparedness law that is now being consulted?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1940	First of all, the Left is very happy to have an impact on the government to pick up 3,000 quota refugees per year. It wasn't obvious, but there are a lot more people than the red-green government has done before. Then we have to have more thoughts in our heads at the same time, we have to accept both many quota refugees, we have to accept asylum seekers, people who need protection, and we have to help in the neighbourhoods. And there's no contradiction between the three. We're going to do all the things at the same time, because that's how human rights don't stop at borders. Then I notice that the Workers' Party is now concerned that the Progress Party has too much influence on immigration policy. I can then remind the representative of Gharahkhani that in 2018 the Workers' Party called for a guarantee from the Progress Party on a continued strict immigration policy, so I see this as a very contradictory message from it in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1948	No matter who wants a guarantee from the Progress Party on a continued strict immigration policy, I can give it. We're going to stand for that. I think the representative had a good post, which takes over both the need to help in the neighbourhoods and that we have limitations in Norway on how many we should accept. Now it's set a target of 3,000 quota refugees next year. In it lies that the government will take some out of Moria camp to give them a stay as part of that allowance. That really means taking the help of 50 quota refugees, as you know, needs it, and giving it to asylum seekers with an unexplained need for protection. So the government has taken a lot of steps to make sure you get to those who actually seem to need it. I still want to ask the representative: wouldn't it not be as good just to take out quota refugees as you know they need it, instead of going through Moria, who can signal to others that they're trying to get to Moria?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1955	As I was in place, we need to make sure that we both provide help in the neighbourhood and accept quota refugees and asylum seekers. It's clear that we could only accept quota refugees, but we have a lot of people in great need in these camps in Greece, and we have a responsibility with the rest of Europe to help these people as well. The government has now agreed that we will pick up 50 people, and we have also made sure that the people who come here are people who are most likely to stay in Norway, so that we do not let them come here to be sent back. That's a significant point.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1960	It is enough that the Left and the SV agree more with the refugee and asylum policy than the Left is with the government in which they sit, and in particular with the support party. I am pleased that the representative Solveig Schytz interprets the legislation for long-term children in the same way that SV does, namely that some of the things we see now have to have a different outcome. Then there's a question what the representative intends to do with it, when the Left actually sits in government. The second question is, the representative spent most of his post on integration. So there, the government has changed the system of Job and removed the possibility for women who have come so far away from work that they have gone on social assistance. We also know that neither good measures nor qualification programmes are available in very many municipalities. What's the reason for shutting these women out of the program that we've seen works?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1967	The short answer is that I don't know enough about the background because it's like this. I think others have to answer that. With regard to the first, it is clear that with the changes that we made in 2014, the intention was crystal clear: better care for the long-term asylum children – that the children who have taken root should become. So it is very difficult to intervene in individual matters and matters that have been dealt with in the administration and in the judicial system. I, and neither the representative Andersen, know all the details of the matter in addition to what is described in the press. For the specific matter that we were dealing with, it's so hard to understand from what comes out in the press. I want to add that in 2017 Stortinget concluded that the government cannot instruct UNE. Then it was an important victory for both the Left, the Christian People's Party and the SV. Now it seems like SV might think it should not be like this, but with the opposite reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1980	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e1985	A government budget is about the distribution of government money, and that's perhaps what we have most in focus when dealing with a government budget, but it's also about communication. Through assignments that are done and not done, we say something about something, we communicate either explicitly or implicitly, we communicate something about reality, and we communicate something about the world picture. Under the responsibility of the municipal committee for immigration and integration, this communication may become more visible, because we have a responsibility for a field with a lot of local involvement and issues that generate a lot of attention and a lot of closeness out there. In this budget, we have focused on the good, well-established arrangements on the integration side, but we have also had the courage to be innovative and innovative. I'm proud of that. It says something about listening. Please refer to the Norwegian Training Rock Card Scheme, e.g. For years we have received feedback that the structure of Norwegian training is not suitable for everyone. We've seen this especially for the families of children. Now there is a system in which the immigrants themselves can test out and find the course that is best suited to them and the situation they are in at that time. It creates good integration – for both the night worker, the baby’s mother, the sufferer with trauma and mental health, and the person who thinks it is good to let go of the laying of children three nights a week. On the immigration side, we deliver a sober and sober budget. It's not a big cut, and it's a realism of the situation we're in, that's a global pandemic. What has alarmed me during the discussion of this budget is the new cooperation coalition that runs across the blocks, a pendulum that demonstrated its true force in the consideration of the budgetary unity issue of lifting the residence requirement for immigrants seeking residence in Norway. I get worried when four loose suggestions were put into the case, and this got the majority through the treatment – the year we've all come to know how vulnerable it is to be human, the year in which so many people have lost their lives, the year in which we've been worried about how to deal with our most poor when the pandemic reaches there, as if war and hunger were not enough to drive people on the run. Now we're also going to make it more difficult to reunite with the family, and there's going to be discrimination between different refugee statuses. Yes, this was the year when a new political pendulum turned immigration policy hard away from the centre of Norwegian policy. It's important to have values like human dignity, closeness and justice. Here I see the importance of the Christian People's Party for the dynamism of Norwegian policy. Never before has the victory of the Christian People's Party been greater in the budget, and in this field of quota refugees and aid rates. Fortunately, thanks to the Christian People's Party, the broad lines of the international contribution and immigration policy remain firm. It's been irrelevant for us to cut the number of quota refugees. It's about vulnerable people on the run. We will continue to accept 3,000. It's still stuck. We also made sure that 1 pst. of Norway’s GNI continues to provide assistance. It'll mean everything to them. It's still stuck. In a political landscape that communicates so clearly, both explicitly and implicitly, a sense of reality of a worldview so different from that of the Christian People's Party, only shows the importance of our party and makes our impact greater. Yeah, we might be a little bit -- 4.2 pst. at the last choice – but the footprint is quite large. This is a responsible government budget in a pandemic that is linked to major challenges that need to be solved continuously. Many of these may also have major consequences. That is why I am pleased with all the temporary corona measures and restrictions associated with this field that give an increased legitimacy to what we call a responsible state budget. Our goal is to be involved in ensuring a safe and good governance of the country. The Christian People's Party takes responsibility with the rest of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2002	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2007	I choose to ask the same questions as I asked to the Left, because I find it sad that the Christian People's Party said no to the Workers' Party's proposal to increase the number of quota refugees by 500, said no to the Workers' Party's proposal to establish a 2.5 billion solidarity pot. kr, but says yes to the proposal of the Progress Party on five years of temporaryity for all, and says yes to the proposal of the Progress Party on 260 000 SEK in income next to the school for family reunification. Why does the Christian People's Party allow the Progress Party to get on the wheel of refugee policy – i.e. for the sake of the intricacies, not to set up a more solidarityist refugee policy? If it is such a bad proposal to distinguish between subsidiary protection and Convention status, has the representative come up with the fact that his own government has actually sent out a standby permit at the hearing, where exactly this is included?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2012	So the answer is cliché to the left hand side, that we have a lot of care in our head at once, this in terms of the neighbourhoods and this in terms of reception. We must have a sound and responsible policy in these areas. The representative knows very well that these were budgetary negotiations. Budget negotiations are giving and taking. In my post I emphasized very clearly what we had given, and what we had received – 1 pst. in assistance and 3 000 quota refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2019	Negotiations can be difficult. We've probably landed a state budget, and you're happy with parts of it and very satisfied in other areas, and that's the way it is. But what may have been a bit surprising has led to a lot of debate, and several parties have gone against it afterwards, including representatives of the Christian People's Party, is what we got through, that Christian quota refugees should be given priority. This is a large group that is persecuted in many parts of the world, and I must say I was surprised when it was going to be a problem. Norway has given priority to other groups several times in the past, and by June at the latest, the Christian People's Party agreed to give priority to homosexuals and lesbians, etc. as quota refugees. Then I sincerely wonder: Can the representative give detailed reasons for the difference between Christian refugees and gay/lesbian refugees, which the Christian People's Party believes should be given priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2026	I believe that the starting point for this question is a little wrong, because the Christian People's Party has clearly entered into this budget agreement on the text that the representative says. We are very clear that it cannot be worse to give priority to Christian asylum seekers than to give priority to asylum seekers with gay orientation, with Muslim background or for other reasons. It has to be equal. In fact, I also react a little to the fact that a prioritizing Christian has been very haphazard. We need to be aware that Christians too are being severely persecuted for their faith around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2032	Now we've heard it's going to come 30 from Moria right after Christmas. The Moria case has been discussed here several times lately. The centre party has been assigned to the priority group. The feedback from them on the ground is that young lone minors, especially young girls, are a very vulnerable group. We have arranged that single girls under the age of 16 should be given priority. Another representative had a terrible example here before today. What does the representative Bransdal think about now that only families of children are at the forefront of the outreach, and not very vulnerable young girls who are to themselves, without caregivers, in these camps?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2037	Thank you, this question visualizes in a very good way that in Moria tenants there are several groups with an explicit need. Focusing on young girls under 16 years of age, I think I'm very timely. It is preferable to talk about young male asylum seekers who may not have such a great need. We know that in addition to the group that was brought up now, there are especially Syrian families with high needs. This visualizes very well that the withdrawal from Moria could have been far more than 50.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2042	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2047	The overall objective of immigration policy is to have a controlled and sustainable immigration. It is important to pursue an asylum policy that keeps the number of asylum seekers without a need for protection as low as possible in order to use the resources of asylum seekers with protection needs and quota refugees. After 2015, relatively few asylum seekers have arrived in Norway. In the first eleven months of 2020, there have been about 1 300 asylum seekers. Over the last four years, there have been some 3 000 asylum seekers per year. The low number in 2020 is related to the Corona situation. In comparison, Norway received between 9 000 and 12 000 asylum seekers per year between 2011 and 2014 and more than 31 000 in 2015. It is expected that the number of asylum seekers will remain low in 2021. Few asylum seekers contribute to reducing the need for asylum recipients. From the beginning of 2020 until the end of October, the number of residents in receptions of asylum has been reduced from around 2 500 to about 2 000. It is estimated that the decline in the number of persons in reception will continue in 2021. Reductions in the reception population alone will lead to a reduction in the cost of accommodation for asylum seekers. In order to maintain a basic capacity, including ensuring the existence of a market for receiving operators, which is important if arrivals increase again at a later date, it is not recommended to terminate reception capacity at the same rate as before. It is also important in the future to pursue an asylum policy that keeps the number of asylum seekers as low as possible without the need for protection. This enables resources to be used for persons with a real need for protection. In view of the low number of asylum seekers and the expected decline in family migration figures, the government proposes to have a quota of 3000 places in 2021, including any relocated ones. The corona pandemic has led to the fact that it has been difficult to accept all the transfer refugees that it was planned to pick up to Norway in 2020. Any unused space in the 2020 allowance will be transferred to 2021. It looks like about 700 places. A one-off solution is introduced for long-stay foreigners. The measure opens up the possibility for some non-residents with a refusal to apply for asylum who have a long residence period to be granted a residence permit in Norway. These people will have the opportunity to work and support themselves. There has been a significant increase in the number of applications for citizenship. This is a consequence of the termination of the principle of one citizenship, and an increase of about 60 000 cases is now expected between 2020 and 2022. In order to prevent the duration of proceedings being too long, the government has proposed to increase the funding to the police and the UDI with a total of 61.5 million. NOK 2021. One of the objectives of the government is to have rapid returns of persons without a residence permit. Asylum seekers who have received a refusal to apply for asylum and who do not travel on a voluntary basis shall be forced to return. This is important in order to maintain confidence in the institution of asylum and send a clear signal to those who consider travelling without a need for protection. It is estimated that the police will transport 4,300 people in 2021, while 220 are expected to travel through the assisted return system. There are expected to be fewer returns in 2021. The decrease in this figure is due to the fact that there are fewer persons in reception with an exit obligation. The government in its proposal for a State budget for 2021 is adding to the support of immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2072	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2077	The Labour Party's refugee policy is on two important lines. One is that Norway is making the most important effort if we want to help as many refugees as possible, we are doing so in the neighbourhoods. The second is that if we're going to accept refugees here at home, the fairest way to do it through the United Nations quota system. Today we have had a debate on these issues, where representatives from the Left and the Christian People's Party are going to go to the pulpit and speak against solutions that will contribute to it. I also registered that the Right chose to vote against the seven proposals from the Labour Party last week, which could just contribute to this. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2084	I think it's not very strange, given that we voted on a budget and a budget unit. Then it's not the case with the alliance that the Labour Party chose to join the Progress Party in four proposals last week, that we're necessarily against all four. One promoted the government consisting of the Advance Party and the Right earlier, and then the Labour Party voted against. The second proposal, which concerns refugees with subsidiary status, has been consulted – quite rightly as an emergency shelter in the event of large arrivals. To change the income requirement for family reunification we did last week when we entered into budgetary cooperation, given that we took away the introduction benefit as a basis for family reunification. And the last one is about contributing to less migration, and Norway does.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2091	It was such that the Workers' Party promoted seven proposals, and the Right had the opportunity to vote for them. There was no alliance between the Labour Party and the Advance Party. Those parties here in the main hall who thought it was the right policy had the opportunity to support it. I'm tracking right didn't do it. I also notice the way the Council of State answers, that there is disagreement in the government on these issues, and we've seen that in a number of cases. Another question I would like to ask the Council of States is the way in which we are going to accept quota refugees in the future. The working party has been concerned that Norway should give priority to families with child protection needs. Does not the Council of State find it unfortunate that what kind of belief people have in exile is going to become a political game in a government debate? Does the Council really believe that what kind of god families of children believe will determine whether they can come to Norway or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2098	At first, I think I have to find out that it is the representative Thommessen who has replied for the right vote in Stortinget. I have responded to the government's policy, and then I have also gone through the four proposals that the Labour Party chose to ally with the Advance Party about last week. It's completely age-bound. So most of them we're working with, or we've promoted them, and we've had them vote down with the Labour Party's votes. It's more than funny. When it comes to prioritizing vulnerable groups, there is nothing new. That's what you did when the Workers' Party was in government, and we're doing that now. We give priority to vulnerable women, we give priority to vulnerable families of children, we give priority to people who are persecuted because of their sexual attitude. So it's not new that you give priority to groups that are particularly vulnerable to persecution, so the consensus you entered last week is nothing new. It just means one more point on the list where we give priority to vulnerable people who need our protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2105	This debate has largely focused on finding solutions to the major problems in the world. It's one of the most important things we can do, and it's hard. Several parties have come to the realization that you cannot just pick up – and pick up without borders, and it is important that you have good plans to accept. Then there's been a discussion about what you're obliged to do through international agreements and conventions. I went up this Australia model, and we've had a discussion about it. As far as I know, no one has criticised the principle of providing protection beyond the borders of the country, which violates anything. But some organizations have criticized the treatment of the people where they have landed. Can the minister, who knows this field very well, say whether this will be within or outside our obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2113	It really depends on how to do it. In conversations with my Danish colleague I have asked how to do this. It depends on the systems in place to receive asylum seekers, to transport them to this third country which is thought to exist, what to do when an application has been dealt with, where to stay, whether to obtain asylum or not. I want to say about this Australian scheme that it's a little unyanized approach, I think, from the Progress Party. We're talking about people locked up behind barbed wire. We're talking about suicide attempts, about violent riots, about escapes. It's not quite simple systems, and Australia has got a lot of criticism for this. Then I can't say that they're breaking international obligations, because I have no basis for that. What we also know about Australia is that they accept many refugees. They are among the countries that receive most quota refugees based on their population. There is an interesting debate about this third country and how to do it. It is in progress in Europe. Someone's taking care of this. I do not think that is an easy answer to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2120	I Prop. 1 S for 2020-2021, it is stated that the requirements and advice of the health services in connection with the outbreak of the virus, inter alia. means that fewer residents share rooms, bathrooms and kitchens at reception. This means that the need for reception points is greater than the forecast and cost-effective operation in a normal situation. In this context, mention may be made of the reception of asylum on the left, where 43 residents were infected by covid-19 after a resident was moved to the reception due to the closure of another reception. Information in the media says that persons who were not infected had to stay overnight in the same room as the infected resident, as there was no free capacity on the receiver to isolate the resident. This may indicate that there is not enough buffer capacity in all receptions to manage any outbreaks of infection. Is it not reasonable, then, to have a temporary stop in the closure of the reception of asylum until the pandemic is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2125	I would like to say that there has been a great job of employees at the reception of asylum in connection with the pandemic. Yeah, we've had virus outbreaks in asylum recipients the same way we've had it in almost every other kind of institution in our country, but it's been handled in a very good way. So the reception capacity is going down because we have fewer arrivals, but we don't go down as much as we could, just because we want a buffer. The UDI stopped the movement from reception in order to ensure that infectious diseases were taken into account, and a separate pathogen is now being developed together with the Health Directorate in order to ensure that residents are in receipt of asylum. A good deal of contracts goes out until Christmas. We just have to deal with that. But the residents must be as safe as possible. That we can get outbreaks there the same way we've got it in other institutions can happen, but it's doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2134	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Minister of Justice has a slightly more nuanced view of this Australia model, which also leaves behind people who die. What I would like to ask is this: the Minister is responsible for Norway's compliance with its international obligations in this area, including the European Convention on Human Rights. In fact, Norway was convicted in a 2017 case, where a so-called precedent was given, i.e. a case that is not just about the individual case, but is about a principle decision on how to practice this legislation in order to keep the Convention. Then my question is to the Council of State: When Norway receives such a judgment, what does the Minister of Justice do to ensure that the underlying agencies follow this precedent and deal properly with our obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2141	These are our underlying agencies – I suppose the representative is aiming at UNE and UDI – and the courts, which I, of course, do not govern or instruct, dealing with matters, and which are to ensure that they do so under Norwegian law and under our international obligations. I take of course for granted that our agencies have been thoroughly involved in these matters and know what they do when making decisions in matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2146	It is the government that is responsible for our international obligations. There are no underlying bodies responsible for Norway's compliance with its international obligations under the Conventions. That means that it has to be the government. You can't push that responsibility over to the underlying offices and say that they have to follow this up. I want to remind you that now we've been through the Nav scandal, where you've seen that when you just let practice evolve and don't check it out against the obligations we have, it goes very wrong. I would like to repeat: I believe that the Council of State is aware that it is the State that has this obligation, and not the underlying bodies. Does this mean that the government and the Council of State do not have any procedures for following up cases where Norway is convicted by way of a precedent and not in individual cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2151	That's not what I said we don't have routines. We have routines for those who want to stay professionally up to date to do so. I have confidence that they do. So it's not like we're dealing with individual cases in the Department of Justice. I'm very happy about that. But it's quite obvious that UNE, UDI and the courts know the case law, know our laws and our international obligations and keep up-to-date with the judgments passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2158	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2163	The main objective of the government's integration policy is for more people to participate in the labour market and be part of society. Education and competence are the key to equal opportunities for all, while giving each individual the freedom to make independent choices. There is a great deal that works well with integration work in Norway. Nevertheless, we have some clear challenges to solve – challenges that have not diminished under the pandemic. More people have to work, and more people have to be able to stay in the workplace. Several people need to be given the opportunity to contribute to society and to stand on their own, because if we are able to use the resources of each individual sitting on, we win both the individual and society. And we know there's a lot of resource-powerful people out there. In an analysis earlier this year, the SSB points out that in the labour market we are moving in, where skilled labour is particularly required, completed higher education means more than migrant background. In other words, it is concluded that education is a major barrier and a major cause of employment inequalities. I am pleased that earlier this year the Stortinget adopted the new law of integration which will enter into force in the New Year. The law gives an important boost to integration work, as there have been too many differences in the provision provided by municipalities to newcomers. In the budget we follow up with, among other things. to grant 10.2 million. kr for county councils to provide career guidance to participants in the introduction programme covered by the new law. Furthermore, a further 15.4 million is proposed. kr for the continuation of career guidance for participants in the introduction programme under the Introduction Act. Being able to speak Norwegian is important, whether you are applying for a job or attending a parent’s meeting. That's why I'm worried that many immigrants, including those who live longer, don't manage Norwegian well enough to be able to participate fully in working and social life. So the government is proposing 25 million. kr for a separate Norwegian contribution. It is divided into two measures to complement today’s offer. Five million. kr is to strengthen the grant scheme for integration work under the auspices of non-governmental organisations and will be earmarked for Norwegian training. We know that many people need to practise Norwegian more to get up to the levels of skills that are expected. Twenty million. Allowed to test a cutting card scheme. The scheme is a pilot project to contribute to innovation in Norwegian training methods, while reaching out to more groups than current Norwegian training, such as migrant workers. Therefore, I find it strange that parts of the opposition propose to cut this particular measure. It is particularly important that we achieve better integration into working life. It is important both for the individual who gets a job, for the community and to ensure a sustainable welfare society. So the government is proposing $15 million. a package of measures for increasing labour diversity in 2021. It is proposed to establish a grant scheme for action to increase ethnic diversity in the labour market and an information and guidance service aimed at employers, professional organisations and other social actors, as well as an information campaign. For some, however, the way into working life is extra long. Domestic immigrant women have therefore been a group of these governments that have made a special effort to give them opportunities for work. The Job Opportunities provide individualised programmes to provide enhanced qualifications for long-term labour relations and economic autonomy. I am therefore very pleased that we are now strengthening this measure by 25 million. kr. So that's a total of 110.3 million. NOK 2021. For many, negative social control is one of the main obstacles to their full participation in society. The government has long had a great deal to do with this. We are also following that in the budget. Among other things, it's set at 10 million. to strengthen and extend the minority advisory system by 10 new posts. This is an important contribution to ensuring that young people throughout the country have access to good advice in a very difficult situation. Overall, the 63 million scheme budget. SEK with 59 minority advisors in selected youth and secondary schools. We've seen through the pandemic how important these people have been to young people throughout the country, so I'm very happy that we're strengthening it. With this budget, the government will provide better and faster Norwegian training, more education and formal competence and facilitate closer cooperation between volunteering and the public. This is absolutely vital to ensure that the individual is given the opportunity to create a good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2196	In the autumn of 2017, the Foundation was born Free and was launched as a child of the Left's Heart in the context of the budgetary negotiations. Arbitration councils have since granted large sums of money to Born Free in the years that have followed. Following notifications to the IMFI in August of this year, Ernst & Young reviewed the accounts and found a lack of public funds. From the outside it looks as if there were close ties between Culture Minister Raja, Left as a party and the establishment of the Foundation Born Free. Was the Council of State included in the decision to give substantial amounts to the Birth Free, and was the Council of State part of the initiators?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2204	The representative refers to a history in the matter, a history that is there a long time before the signed at all sat on the Storting, so exactly what happened around the establishment of this support, I won't go deep on, without saying that too many in the Left have been a strong commitment in the work against negative social control, ensuring that everyone who lives in our society should have the same freedoms and the same opportunities. The Foundation Born Fri has been an important part of that work, but I want to stress that there is a very wide range of work supporting a number of non-governmental organisations. Now we have a total pot of 153.7 million. kr, and the funds go to work on freedom from negative social control, so here there are a lot of actors doing an incredibly important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2209	It is easy to see that it was unmusical to demand money for a foundation that was not established in the budget negotiations in the autumn of 2017. We are therefore promoting a proposal today asking the government to ensure that non-established non-governmental organisations do not receive State aid until the organisation numbers are registered in the Brønn Island Health Registers. What does the Council of State think about politicians who suddenly find money for new organisations without political follow-up to criteria and requirements to control how taxpayers' money is spent?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2216	I think we should be careful to generalize very from one example. The challenge will often be that in many areas where there is a need to do new work, existing organisations are not always ready to take on a job. Nevertheless, I think it is important that we have a critical view of what we are spending on public funds, that we ensure that they are used properly. Therefore, it is also important that money use is followed, that it is ensured that the money goes to the very purpose for which it is intended. That being said, I am very proud of the job left and the government have done with regard to this matter. The agenda has been raised very much higher in recent years, not least because of very many voices that have dared to stand up and that have made an important effort to ensure an open and public debate on this. I'm glad. It has contributed to this, and I think that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2223	I was also going to ask a little about this organisation Born Free, since it is under the responsibility of the Council of State. I am not going to go into what has been done right and wrong in that matter, it is up to others to find out, but we know what has happened in that process after the alert came, and there is a process that has been quite strongly criticized by several teams. It seems that it has been difficult for the organisation to defend itself, and as we heard here, the organisation has been set up in a strange way. When you give people such a role, I think it should at least give them a very good opportunity to come up with their case. External actors have been hired, and they have been criticised. So really the question is, does the Council of State feel that all aspects of this matter are now thoroughly clarified, and why didn't you use your own law department to do that work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2228	In this kind of process, it's important that we're tidy. As far as I know, the complaint is now pending in the Ministry of Knowledge, and in order for it to be well processed, I cannot comment on the matter while it is in the process. It is correct, as the representative says, that it was Ernst & Young who received a mandate from the IMDI to conduct an independent investigation into the Birth Free. There has recently been a judgment that has supported Ernst & Young in the way they have carried out this investigation, so for the time being there has been no injustice. But of course we will deal with that matter and that complaint in a proper and thorough manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2233	I fully understand that you cannot go into the details of a matter that is being dealt with, and not yet completed. But I think it's important to be aware that the people involved here are in a rather significant pressure in the segment in which they operate, and that not all of this has been illuminated. So the one question I asked, if the Council of State feels that this Ernst & Young report has given a correct and complete picture of the situation, I think it must be possible to answer, even if the matter has not been resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2238	That's just the kind of thing that the department is going to look at when we review the matter, and I actually believe that how I feel about it is quite irrelevant. The important thing is whether it's been done right or not, and that's among the things we're going to look at. Then I fully understand that such a process is very demanding for everyone involved. I think that's what all of us, most of us, are going to sign. That's why it's particularly important that these kinds of cases are going through in a very thorough and proper way. I have no reason to believe that it has not been done up until now, but it is very important that we deal with the matter, that they have to assess their complaint, and that we ensure that it is done in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2245	After all, the Council of State is responsible for integration and integration is important in order to be able to have a good association and not least a development that benefits all of us. What is really a little worrying now that we are in the covid-19 situation is that many people fall outside or hang out for, among other things. the language training. Then it becomes really an interesting question of what kind of action the government has been thinking about now that we are hopefully going to get into a more normal situation, and these are going to get out and get places of practice, especially in the light of the new law of integration, which the Minister had in mind in his speech. What is the government's idea of taking care of integration now that we're in a normal situation, with the great lag we're going to have for people who unfortunately haven't been allowed to participate in a sufficiently good way, now that we're going into such a transition? Do you have resources, and do you have thoughts about systems to make sure that this is going to be good?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2254	There is no doubt that there is now a very demanding time, and that people with a migrant background are overrepresented among those with high unemployment who have fallen out of work, and that this is a major challenge that we need to address. Among the measures already provided by the government, which is then a form of crisis response, is the possibility of extending the period of Norwegian training in the introduction programme. We have been concerned that we should use the crisis for the enhancement of competence, both formal competence and not least Norwegian skills, so we are concerned that those who may now be in the interview for the introduction programme are given the opportunity to continue for a few more months instead of just going into unemployment. It's one of the measures. Not least, the new steps we are taking through the integration reform, which will enter into force on 1 January, will be very important. Providing a boost to integration work in all the municipalities of the country, raising the quality and raising the skills of all those working there, are the most important steps in the reform process.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2261	There may be more reason to put the search light on another organisation. I read on Facebook February 6th this year, on Guri Melby's status, and there it said: ‘I see no reason why an organisation such as HRS, which contributes to the spread of xenophobia and very negative attitudes, should receive State aid. There's nothing to suggest that they're making the social debate more enlightened, and I hope that one of the consequences of Frp's being out of government is that HRS is out of next year's government budget." So now Guri Melby has become Minister for Integration. How can the Minister accept that an organisation that spreads fear and very negative attitudes, and therefore makes the work of the Council of State difficult, is still on the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2271	I don't think it's any secret what's my private opinion of HRS, nor what's left's view of HRS. Nevertheless, in a government budget, there are a lot of records for which we are, fortunately they are all, most of them, and then there are some records in which we are not as happy. I would like to stress that I do not consider the support of HRS as part of the integration work. For us, it has been important that we have strengthened the work of integration, and not least the way we use civil society – that we use voluntary organisations. We have strengthened this over several years, and so do we in this year's government budget. I believe that the representative Karin Andersen can recognize that this particular field is perhaps one of the most demanding to find good solutions in government. The SV chose to do when they were in government was simply to take hers in large parts of immigration policy. Instead, the left has chosen to be involved in designing good solutions, such as: has ensured that we have had a record high number of quota refugees over many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2281	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2286	For the Workers' Party, it is the individual's opportunity to get a job and to be able to support himself and his family, which is the most important objective of integration policy. Sufficient Norwegian skills are often crucial to the chances of working life. It is also important to be able to follow-up children’s schooling and leisure activities, and to participate in the community of which they are part. In particular, language skills are a prerequisite for the full exercise of the democratic rights granted by Norwegian citizenship. No political task is more important than getting people a job. Work is the key to the rest: own money, the sense of mastering and increasing dignity, owner-occupancy, good health, better integration and a social life. All of this will be easier if you have a job to do. Guri Melby reported in the fall that we need an integration reform. She says straight away that the government has not been good enough to exploit the great potential of municipalities, businesses and the voluntary nature to qualify more people for a job. We in the Labour Party fully agree with that. Good integration is about high ambitions, better Norwegian education, early skills mapping and greater opportunities to get people to work. In short, the key to good integration is language learning and work. The Working Party is betting on the taskbar. We have strengthened labour-oriented and municipal integration measures by 55 million. kr in our alternative budget. Too many immigrants do not manage Norwegian well enough. Immigrants do not have the right to free Norwegian training, and many feel that it is too expensive to complete Norwegian private training. In jobs with many immigrants, the working language will often not be Norwegian, and when many also have a network of people from the same country of origin, some will feel that learning Norwegian is not a very strong incentive. This is a problem for integration, and it is a challenge for serious work. In our alternative budget, we propose to allocate 7.5 million. kr to a pilot project for Norwegian Regional Training Centres for Immigrant Workers, in cooperation with voluntary actors and social partners. Centres shall provide free Norwegian training and other relevant services to workers and shall have a device to stimulate union membership. Today's great struggle for freedom and equality takes place in the crossroads between freedom to live their lives in different ways and the social and cultural pressure that many face in choosing how to live their lives. Negative social control and physical and mental honours have no place in our society. When individuals are hurt, society is also hurt. Then the community and society will also react. Everyone shall have the freedom to be himself, to participate and to break if they experience limitations in their freedom. In our alternative budget for 2021, we're going to add 15 million. to strengthen the work of non-governmental organisations active in the immigrant population, in addition to government appropriations under this heading. We believe that volunteering should have an even greater role to play in integration. Being included in local volunteering provides a good opportunity to become acquainted with the community, to build networks and to gain experience that promotes integration. We want to strengthen the Norwegian training offer in the direction of volunteering and to earmark 2 million. SEK to city mothers and 1 million. For Caritas. These are two organisations that get too little. We also refer to the allocation to the Birth Free, which was given to an organisation that was not yet established, and we therefore promote the following proposal: The government is asking the government to ensure that non-established non-governmental organisations do not receive State aid until the organisation number is registered in the Brønn Island Health Registers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2307	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2312	Arsiema Tezare Birkedal came to Norway as a quota refugee. In the fall we could read her story in our local way, the fatherland friend. Arsiema was originally from Eritrea, but grew up in Ethiopia. When she arrived, she was sent to a reception at the Setermo. Eventually she moved to Oslo and got a job on her own. After three years she received a residence permit and came to Kristiansand. There she was recorded on the introduction program and was a year at Kongsgård School Centre. Arsiema had a Master's degree in Business Management from Ethiopia. Since then, she has taken a master's degree in Development Management at the University of Agder, and now she is taking a master's degree in management at the University of Tromsø. She works 70 pst. as Head of Action for Integration into the Church’s Urban Mission and 40 p.m. as programme advisor for Kristiansand municipality at Kongsgård School Centre, where she herself was a student. In many ways she is a role model. Not everyone is like Arsiema, but yet her story is supported by the figures, which show that of those who finished the introduction program in 2017 in our municipality, Kristiansand, 68 pst. in work or education in November 2018. It is best among Norway's ten largest municipalities. The figures from 2018 are also good. Then Oslo and Bærum were on top and Kristiansand were in third place. According to the Director of the Directorate of Integration and Diversity, Libe Rieber-Mohn, Kristiansand is distinguished by providing education and training in the introduction programme to a greater extent than other municipalities. She says, ‘It is wise, because we know that education and work as measures in the introduction programme increases the likelihood of success in getting a job after completion of education’. That is why I am very pleased with the government's efforts to follow up the 'Integration through knowledge' strategy and the willingness to use resources in the integration field as effectively as possible. If I'm going to draw out some individual measures in the year's budget in this area, I'm very happy that we're strengthening Job probability by $25 million. NOK 110 million in total. kr, for domestic immigrant women who are far from the labour market. I'm also happy for the total of 25.9 million. kr set aside to provide career guidance to participants in the introduction programme under new integration laws from 2021 and for participants in the introduction programme under the introduction law. Individually adapted guidance is gold worth finding a place in the world of work. We must succeed in achieving sustainable immigration and integration over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2330	It's sad, but it seems to be a reality that this big deal, as well as the Workers' Party and the Centre, has become so frightened to the degrees of the Progress Party that they still don't see Norway becoming one of the strictest countries in interpreting our international commitments, even breaking them. And the Council's reply to me today gave me no assurance that we have a government that wants to follow up our commitments. One might think that some of the scandals that have occurred, linked to Norway not complying with its obligations, had made a little impression, but it does not seem that way. And that's well because this area is about the other ones, the ones that we can care a little less about, the ones that you don't get upset about don't have the same legal certainty as the rest of us. And one of the areas we should have discussed very much more in this big deal is how the legal certainty of these matters is too poorly cared for. There is also a public sample that has been reported to the Stortinge on. For the time being, as far as I can register, only the SV have tried to follow this up. In our budget we are fully aware that good integration works. It's even a very good regional policy commitment, because it's where population growth has come all over the last few years. We want to spend money on people getting enough food, the right to babysitting when living in an asylum centre, on getting more Norwegian training when one is in reception, so that a teacher is Norwegian, and that one gets the right to complete competence, as the representative Norunn Tveiten Benestad was up here talking about instead, which works. Yeah, it works. We want to give it the right to more people. We also want women who have come into such a difficult situation in life that they have been on social assistance to have access to Job. I really don't understand that it's going to be so hard to understand, when all the evidence shows that the action works. And we're all concerned that these women are going to be economically seagoing, because all of us who have been to the women's fight in Norway know that it's the safest card to make your own decisions. So why don't these women get access to that scheme? So no one has been able to explain why they should be excluded from a system that could actually fit them into working life and an income with which they could become seagoing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2339	I took the word most for a clarification. The representative Gharahkhani asked in his reply whether it was the sign of his statement on the number of quota refugees who were right in his policy. The interview that Gharahkhani pointed out was about the Right's work on the programme for the next big period, and that is the budget this year we are discussing. So there must be no doubt that the Right is setting up for the government and the government platform. That policy is completely, completely firm. Many people are discussing how refugee policy should be. The UN has had no success with its refugee policy – we can recognize it – since the UN was created. For me, and for many others, it's about how we can help the most with scarce resources. That's what I'm talking about in the Right. The result we do not know until spring, but no matter what Right had to adopt, that policy does not apply until the next majority period. But I'm also a little upset when I hear SV here on the tap it seems like it's "trist," and it almost makes it like any other party that doesn't have the same policy as SV doesn't care, as if we're heartless, as if we don't care about other people, and describes how we can't care about others. It is not so to understand that all other parties in the Storting are at heart and do not have a caring policy for other people, even if we have a different approach than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2348	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2353	I mentioned in my speech that Norway cares less about what the United Nations asks us to do, and that Norway chooses to interpret its own responsibilities, for example. by removing the reasonableness condition, as the United Nations has told us, is not in line with our obligations. That's what I stress and point out, that the majority in this room seems to care less about following the UN. Yes, the UN is not perfect, but it is the best we have, and it is much worse if countries like Norway do not follow it. So that's the whole message. Now Trellevik went up here and – in a way – explained that for the Right, the UN is not important. It's easy to notice. It's scary, a bad development. Otherwise, I have explained how we prioritise our money, and we spend money on those who need work, rather than on those who have large assets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2360	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2–5 are treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2415	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines will be given with replies after submissions from the main speakers of the lots and six lines with replies from members of the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2424	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its cooperation. We have had budgetary negotiations that have exceeded the required deadlines, and on this occasion I would like to express my great thanks to the Committee's secretaries and to all those in the Administration of the Stortinge who have worked days and nights to accommodate all the technical and formal aspects of our treatment. You really deserve a Christmas holiday, and I hope the President can pass this on! We've put behind us a year when the whole country has been in a crisis and the handling of it. No one's been untouched by the pandemic. Individuals and businesses have had their everyday lives, and for many their futures, thrown into uncertainty and uncertainty. The country is still in a state of crisis. We all go into a different Christmas than what we're used to. Unemployment is very high. That is why it is precisely this government's policy to ensure that more jobs are created and that our policies contribute to it. Before the pandemic hit us, four out of five jobs were created in the private sector. I want to go back there. I want us to have a business that is green, sustainable, value-creating and growing – and this all over the country. There is no doubt that the debate we have today has an impact on the ability of our business to get through the crisis and remain growing on the other side. With this government, we have cut the tax and tax levels in Norway by nearly 30 billion. kr. After the agreement with the Progress Party, this figure has reached 34 billion. kr. That means that our inhabitants and businesses get to keep more of their own earned income. This means that a normal family of children will retain more than $14,000 of their own money a year, and that business can use its capital to invest in more jobs rather than pay taxes. Not least at this point in time, it's incredibly important that business, how many already see red numbers, is not charged with an extra tax bill that many people cannot pay. We therefore continue to increase the valuation discount on working capital from 35 p.m. to 45 pst. As a result, Norwegian business owners and values invested in business are less taxed. It is this government's policy just to give better conditions to those who are job creators in this country. There is a tax paid only by Norwegian owners – foreigners escape. It's a paradox when most of the parties in this room are involved in making compensation schemes to help our companies over their knees, but if they get over their knees, they're going to face increased taxes. It's not related. In the government’s proposal for a government budget, several measures are proposed to increase value creation and improve the tax system. We propose to change the hydro tax, from being a rent tax to becoming a cash flow tax. This means that new investments and upgrades in the hydroelectric power plants are immediately spent and thus free up a lot of capital. The government continues to reduce the lowest steps of the step tax and to increase the minimum deduction of wages and salaries and pensions. This benefits them with the lowest income. In line with the Granavolden platform, the maximum property tax state is reduced from 5 to 4 per million for dwellings and leisure homes. We propose changes to the Housing Saving scheme for Youth. The tax base estimates that as much as 38 pst. the tax deductions have gone to those who already own the dwelling. Therefore, the scheme is now targeted only at young people who are still saving for housing, and we are increasing savings and deductions so that more savings can be made. We introduce a withholding tax on interest, royalty and rent payments for certain physical assets. This is in order to counteract profit movements out of the country and ensure that the values created here are also taxed more. For those who like sugar-free showers, the levy will not only be halved as a result of the budgetary agreement, but from the summer onwards the levy will also be differentiated according to sugar content. Light showers will therefore be even cheaper, which many will certainly enjoy when summer comes. There are many more steps I could have mentioned, including the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, where the level of fees has fallen by over 6 billion. kr for next year, but I expect that the party itself will explain its impact in this debate. Finally, the last thing that this country needs now is a tax policy that punishes a business that tries to get through a crisis, with huge tax increases. We go into an election year, and the election will be between those who want to create more, and those who want to tax more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2456	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2461	Thank you to the President-in-Office for good cooperation on this matter and other matters over a hectic year in the Financial Committee. The representative Wang Soleim spoke in his article about the Norwegian job creators, on which we all belong in this hall, but went on to talk about only Norwegian owners paying the Norwegian property tax. That's absolutely correct. My question is only whether the representative sees Norway as low in total capital taxation in the OECD. Norway is a good country to be rich in, and it has become much better under Erna Solberg. If Norway had increased the tax on capital in order to make it equal in other OECD countries, we had to introduce much higher property taxes and also reverse the cuts, which are broadly anchored here in the Stortinget, in company taxes from recent years. Does the Right now want to go down to zero in total taxation of capital, or does one want to approach an OECD level, which is higher than where Norway is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2470	The representative Knutsen looks in a way at ‘capital’ as a kind of common concept. We don't put the taxes on wealth on capital, we reduce the taxes on wealth on money invested in business, shares and resources. Money you have in your account will still have to pay taxes on wealth, as before. So 'taxation of capital' is a little too general. That's where the difference between us and the Workers' Party comes in. When we bring down the wealth tax on working capital, i.e. money invested in business, money to provide returns in new jobs in a sustainable and good business life, by $8 billion. kr, is precisely because we believe that we should cheer on those who are business creators here in the country. It is particularly true that now that we are in a crisis situation where we see that many companies have red numbers, the Labour Party believes that it is nevertheless right that they should take out money they do not have, from businesses that are able to survive a crisis. I believe that there is a misguided policy, and I do not know who the Workers' Party has spoken to in the business, when they propose such a grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2477	There is no doubt that lower charges are one of the most important achievements of the Progress Party in this budget unit. That's something we've been fighting for all those years. From the years on the inside of government cooperation, I think we can say, without giving too much revelations, that getting from the other parties in that case wasn't always a great help. Some were even the most concerned about increasing the fees. But after the consensus was clear, we could read on the right.no under the heading «Sugar Budget-Gladsak: – Lower charges are pretty right-wing policy» – with a smiling Wang Soleim below – both that these are sensible measures, that it ensures jobs in Norway, that it helps make life a little easier for ordinary people, and that this is therefore a good right-wing policy. It makes me have a simple question: why wasn't this part of the budget right and the government put forward in October?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2486	Firstly, I am pleased that the representative has been in and visited our new website and our new logo. They're very nice, and I recommend everyone to go inside. The right is for a lower tax regime, and we have done so together with the Progress Party since 2013. We also want some charges to go up, for example. In order to turn the economy into more green, but at the same time, in order to convert the economy into more green, we can reduce taxes and, for example, reduce taxes. provide electric car benefits. Clearly, when it comes to prioritising a government budget, I think that cutting the fees involved has been higher on the Progress Party's priority list than it has been on the Right. But that doesn't mean we're against it either. I myself have been sitting in a programme committee which has also proposed for the next party programme that we should take a larger grip on goods that are placed at the border and reduce their fees, for the next majority period. I'll think that Board Hoksrud in particular is going to appreciate a summer where Pepsi Max gets even cheaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2495	Nearly a quarter of us here in Norway use some form of alternative treatment to help either with physical distress or with mental distress and suffering. Many places in Norway have a rather long waiting time to be treated by a psychologist with a public contract, and many use it, among other things. psychotherapists and also design therapists working with Nav. These are many of the most vulnerable groups in Norwegian society. Why does the government and government party think the right one makes sense to add 25 pst. VAT on this type of treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2502	We believe that this is right because we believe that the VAT exemption to be applied today should apply to medically justified treatment. I believe that it should be reserved for those who are health professionals, who are certified health professionals under the Health Care Act, and that the limit should go there. We believe that it is absolutely right when you have services in other communities that are subject to charges, that you also have to make a distinction that goes between the two. So it's not that this is in any way a prohibition on choosing alternative treatments. You just have to pay VAT on those services, like all other services that are not medically justified here in society. I think it's a perfectly correct conversion. We have also, together with the Progress Party, come up with some transitional arrangements here for some parts of it. But I believe, in any case, that is a principle: it is medically justified treatment that is to be exempted from VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2511	Differences in Norway are increasing, and with increased economic differences, differences in power and political influence are also increasing. It also reflects this government's policy. For in the budget agreement and in the budget, we have once again chosen to cut taxes on wealth, despite the fact that there is no empirical evidence that cuts in wealth tax ensure jobs or value creation, despite the fact that the taxes on wealth are quite accurate. One per million of all those who pay taxes on wealth pay one third of the total tax. So my question to the Right and the representative here is simply: what professional evidence to reduce the stock discount does the government and the Right have to say that it will create more jobs? Or have you only heard the billionaires?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2519	You don't need a team of researchers to understand that if the wealth tax goes up, Norwegian business owners have to take more money out of their businesses. I also think that's the whole point behind this. If you increase it, you have to take more money out, because this is not money you sit on, it's money that many people have invested in Norwegian business. So I noticed that the representative in his question has as a sort of answer that the way out of this crisis is a bigger state. I'll warn you against that. In February, four out of five new jobs were created in the private sector. We have to get back there, not just to get more people to work, but also because the sustainability of the whole welfare state depends on it. We depend on having viable companies that experience value creation. So it's still so that with this proposal for the government budget, the income inequality won't go up. It's still going to be 10 pst. The richest pay 40 pst. of all taxes, and so did they under the red-green. The important thing is to get people to work. That's how we get the inequality down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2528	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2533	Tax policy shall contribute to a number of policy objectives: reducing disparities, funding well-being, cutting emissions and ensuring predictability for people and businesses. This predictability is heightened in the current crisis, for many workers, families, businesses and the Norwegian economy as a whole. Therefore predictability is more important than ever before. At the same time, we know that differences have increased over a long period of time, which the coronary crisis reinforces by affecting social bias. Many people with long-term education, high wages and secure jobs have saved more than usual, and those who own a home also save housing costs with a zero interest rate. People who have lost their jobs, on the other hand, and who, at the same time, do not own their own homes, are in quite the opposite situation. These are often low-wage workers, short-term education and unemployment-related workers. Those in this room who believe that the coronary crisis will reduce the differences between people in Norway should think again. Not only is it in the nature of the crisis that the differences are increasing, the policies pursued, actively contribute to strengthening these differences. We know that the stock exchange is already back where it was before the coronary crisis. At the same time, owners of large equity assets have only received a tax cut in June, and then in December, when we adopt the State budget – a triple win for them at the top. Many others get a triple message. Hundreds of thousands were released during the first shut-down in March. Many of them were low-paid, and many of the same were re-permitted during the second wave of infection in the fall. Next summer they will probably get a click when the holiday money is missing because the Right believes the holiday money on the day money is ‘all ko-ko’. Triple message for ordinary people, that is. The Workers' Party believes it's a common people's turn now. We want to redeploy within the income tax so that those with ordinary and low income pay less taxes than today, while those with high incomes and large wealth have to pay a little more. A person with average income receives NOK 3000 in a lower tax with the Workers' Party's proposal, and an average pensioner receives almost NOK 2000 in a lower tax. 80 pst. all taxpayers get lower taxes with the Workers' Party, but those with the largest assets have to pay a little more. The deduction from being a member of a trade union has remained silent since the Right inception of the government offices. Thus it has become more expensive to be organized. Instead of weakening the organised labour market and recognising the unorganised nature of the labour market, the Labour Party will also use fiscal policies to strengthen the Norwegian labour market model, and proposes to double the trade-union deduction. Until the year’s budgetary settlement, various government constellations have led by the Right-funded large tax cut to the richest with tax increases of almost 7 billion. kr, which affects ordinary people. In the year’s budgetary settlement, the fees were cut again, overtime. The Progress Party in Stortinget has therefore been reversed in government tax increases. The ring's over. With the Workers' Party it will be the end of this Jojo policy. If a single levy is levied, other taxes or income taxes shall be reduced. We are honest with people and say that climate change taxes should be raised, but that it should be compensated through cuts in other taxes or income taxes. For charges, social distortions are eliminated. The SSB has concluded that the right-hand side charging increases have hit low-income households particularly hard, since the tax increases have largely been directed towards typical necessities. The tax cuts the Progress Party got into government, went to people with high incomes, since it went on buying new cars. I'm not the one who claims this, it's the SSB's find. This faulty tax policy must end. People with normal and low incomes have to pay less taxes than today, and the wealthiest can contribute more to the community. It is fully possible to create a tax system that reduces differences, finances well-being, cuts emissions and creates predictability for people and businesses. With that, I take up the suggestions Worker Party, together with others, is behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2556	The representative Eigil Knutsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The president would point out that since 'ko-ko' referred to a quote that was not from here in the hall, I did not club. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2565	This government has reduced the general income tax rate to 22 p.m., to match our neighboring countries, in line with the tax settlement. In 2019, the Labour Party wrote in its alternative budget that they did not consider this necessary, that ‘it is unwise to speed up the race towards the bottom’, and that ‘The tax code goes to the seventh and ultimately beyond the financing of our common well-being’. Today, the Workers' Party supports the rate of 22 p.m., a 2.8-billion-billion-dollar tax cut. kr for companies, without any further explanation of the reverse operation. Is it no longer a race to the bottom, or has it been realized that it is the right policy? Another spin-off: In 2019, the Workers' Party also wrote that individual pension savings are a tax-advanced savings product that further favours them with good advice. The lot entered in order to remove the scheme in 2019 and 2020. For 2021, the Workers' Party has turned around and supported a halving of the scheme. Should one then assume that the Workers' Party supports 50 pst. by favouring them with good advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2574	The Labour Party is proud that we were given the initiative and contributed to a tax settlement in the Stortinget in 2016 that lowered the general tax rate. We've been thinking until this year that it was enough to stop at 23 p.m., but now the Labour Party, as the only party in this room that I've seen, has put forward a comprehensive tax scheme for the next period to ensure predictability for people and businesses. That's why we say that in the situation of Norwegian companies now, we want to keep the corporate tax at an unchanged level. This is professionally very well thought out. According to all, the vast majority of professional economists who are experts in the tax system and look at what affects investment in jobs, corporate taxes have to create predictability around them. The right-hand priority of constantly cutting taxes on wealth only increases savings and makes the large equity assets bigger than they do today. It creates bigger differences, it doesn't create jobs. That is the objective of the Labour Party's policy: predictability, employment and reducing differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2581	I thank you for the answer, but I also addressed it with individual pension savings. I think it is interesting to see that when we delivered our proposal to the state budget, the Workers' Party came out with a big word. This was an ‘unorthodox tax scandal’. Clearly, the expectations of what was then in the alternative budget of the Workers' Party were high. I thought that here comes a huge tax increase that would match these words, but it was lacking. So they kept 23 out of 30 billion. kr i tax cut in its alternative proposal. I am happy about that, but it is just not related to the great words the Workers' Party said in the hiking hall after the budget was presented. After that, ‘tax scandals’ have never been mentioned again. I challenged the representative on that with individual pension savings, and I would like an answer to that. Now, after this reverse operation, are we going to assume that the Workers' Party supports individual pension savings as a good product for almost 200,000 Nordics?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2588	What's in the Labour Party's 2021 tax bill is what we're going to vote on for the next period. This is also in order to ensure predictability for the many people who have started such a pension saving, so that they can also have partial personal savings of pensions. When it comes to the concept of ‘tax scandals’, it is quite correct. We believe that tax policy, particularly during this crisis year, has been a tax scandal on the part of the right-wing government. First, they cut the property tax by over 1 billion. kr in the revised national budget, and then, when it comes to the State budget, it is cut further by 1 billion. kr. In addition, there is a gift of rudeness to talk all the time about working capital. Yes, I know that other parties have been involved in comments that mention it as well, but in this crisis we are now facing, the workers working in Norway are the workers who keep the wheels running. Finally, I would like to recommend the Right to decide. Has the Workers' Party imposed far too little tax, or have we imposed unlimited tax increases, as they have written in the newspapers around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2599	Discussing taxes and charges with the Labour Party for these seven years I've been here has been very different, from an increase of 15 billion. kr, for one to provide a guarantee that if one fee goes up, another goes down. Now I have noticed that one at least has been consistent for a month – from Hadia and Jonas had VG in the office, to the representative Knutsen made contributions today, has a repeat with a guarantee. My question is that people don't notice whether a tax or tax bill comes from the state or from the municipality. The guarantee now given by the Workers' Party that one fee will be paid will another go down, will it also apply to the municipality? Can one expect then that the Labour Party's municipal politicians will not increase the property tax, which is very unpopular among the population and not at all a good tax for the most people? Would you like to feel that one does not increase it in labor-party-controlled municipalities in the budget of the cottage?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2606	We have legalized municipal autonomy in this country, so what municipal politicians do, I can't say anything about it. I think the representative Helge André Njåstad has quite good experience with that. The last Progress Party did when they sat in the City Council in Bergen, was to introduce property taxes at a double level – I have experience with it, because I have paid it myself – so he should have good experience with it. I can't guarantee what some municipal politicians are going to do, but what I can guarantee is that the Workers' Party will ensure a better municipal economy for its municipalities, so that they can strengthen the welfare and avoid doing quite bad cuts in school and care for the elderly, which many municipalities are forced to do in the situation we are currently facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2613	Then that guarantee is a little worth it. If the population's bill is increased in taxes and taxes, but it comes from Labour Party-controlled municipalities, they will not mark that guarantee. It's okay to clarify it. I also thought the representative would add the list to the top if you want to get a better local economy than this big crowd, which has made sure that the municipalities now have over 60 billion. kr on book. When we took over after Stoltenberg II, it was 30 billion. kr, so it's better economy. If you go back to Bergen, as we both know well, it's like they could have removed the property tax they have today, and still have a surplus. My question is: will a encouraged municipality reduce the tax on property, all the time one acknowledges that ordinary people should now be given priority, and that taxes and taxes are a disadvantage to ordinary people? Should one then fail to collect the property tax, which is unnecessary in a number of Norwegian municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2623	In the case of municipal economy, by 2020, the year with the weakest growth in free income for Norwegian municipalities was 15 years. It was 15 years since the last growth in free income was so weak, the last time Erna Solberg was the Council of State. The local economy has been severely reduced in many of the municipalities in the country, including the United Kingdom. because the majority of us in this room – and several of us are responsible for it – have implemented expensive reforms that we are going down the Municipality of Norway and are not funded. But again, I can't guarantee what Norwegian local politicians are going to do. Nor can the representative Helge André Njåstad, all the time his own party has been involved in reintroducing a double property tax in Bergen. What I can guarantee is a strengthened community economy that enables us to expand care for the elderly and school in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2630	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2635	The tax arrangement in the agreement between the Advance Party and the Government Parties is that part of the deal we are most satisfied with. We've been passed to lower taxes and taxes by over 7 billion. kr, in substance through a cut in fees. With this scheme, taxes and taxes fell by about 35 billion in 2021. kr compared to 2013, when the red-green lots crashed. An average family will have about NOK 14 000 more to walk with next year, compared with whether the tax regime had continued the red-green regime after they had power. One of the most interesting observations I've made in the tax debate in recent years is the sudden care of people with ordinary incomes by the red-green parties. It is very interesting that the red and green opposition, which in both 2013 and 2017, warned against lower taxes and taxes, is now concerned that they will get even lower tax burdens. It is in stark contrast to the policy of the Stoltenberg II government for eight years, when everyone, including those with median income, got increased tax burden. It was even higher than today. If it is true that the opposition, even when they are in position once in the future, will pursue a policy that provides lower taxes and taxes, it will be among the greatest lasting changes in the number of today’s population. Unfortunately, I think it's just an election bottle, now between the elections, and that they go back to old-fashioned, socialist tax policy when they get power and opportunity again, hopefully in a while. A significant part of the similar debate last year was about the noise producer Oskar Sylte. The importance of removing the competitive disadvantages Oskar Sylte has, versus Swedish, Danish and other foreign competitors, been taken up by the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum. The time when the Senter Party actually reduced taxes on goods exposed to border trade, as opposed to what they do this year. To put it that way: a cut of a few tens of millions in the juice fee does not help Oskar Sylte or anyone else who is concerned about the problem around the border trade. It doesn't do a little cut in the food crumb either. Even though the leader of the Center Party is trying to flirt out of the issue when you meet him, this is serious for them. I don't know anyone – nobody – who goes to Sweden to shop caviar, caviar, juice or milk. It's possible they do it when they're there anyway, but it's the baits that make you go. Tobacco, in particular snuffing, alcohol, chocolate and sugar products and shower are the goods that get people across the border initially – goods that have significantly higher taxes here at home than out there. As I said, it's a problem that's too serious to just flirt. It's throwing bladders in the eyes of those who've gotten into work with one foot, whether it's in the food industry or it's in the food industry. It gives a signal that their jobs are not important, or even worse: that we don't care that the individual has actually got to participate in the work. These are not workplaces that are there regardless of how the pattern of action becomes when the borders reopen. These are thousands of temporary jobs that would disappear if the Center Party or the other opposition had got what they wanted. I am not sure at all that all of these jobs will be here, nor with the agreement between us and the government parties, although there is a powerful border trade package of nearly 4 billion. kr. But it's a very good start, and that's exactly what we think of it as – a start. This is a work that must continue in the years to come. Now we've set the starting line, and it has to be followed up by the governments in the future, regardless of the batch color. Before the decision is made in a few years' time, the voters have some tough choices to make themselves. In the case of taxes and taxes, the choice is really simple. If you think that taxes and taxes for everything in the world must be raised – you think that you, the company you work in, or the family, have such good advice – you should choose a red-green party. Everyone with different shades wants higher taxes and taxes. If you want to keep a little bit more yourself, you should vote on one of the government parties. If you want to keep much more yourself, you should vote in the Progress Party. Finally, a explanation of vote: the party of progress will vote in favour of minority motions for resolutions Nos. 1 in the Input. 4 L for 2020-2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2654	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2659	The national audit has pointed out that users of fee-based services in a number of areas have to pay more than the cost of services. According to the Riksaudition, this is a hidden tax. In total, these hidden taxes are equivalent to 600 million. kr. Young people who are required to take the theoretical knowledge test or photo for driving licences pay a total of 68 million. DKK too much for the State Road Service, young people who have been struggling to get into the housing market, paying a total of 89 million. kr too much for the State's mapping, and people in debt traps who are going to settle themselves are going to pay $200 million. kr too much to court and police. Why is it that the Progress Party does not comply with State rules that fees should reflect the cost of performing services? And why does the Progress Party continue to charge too much for ordinary services for most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2666	Thank you for the question. This has been a problem for very many years. It was a problem under the red-green government and has been a problem under today's government. What we've been doing has actually been systematically reducing the overpriced fees over the last few years. For the following year, too, there is a reduction in the overpriced fees. There is no doubt that overpriced fees should be avoided. That is the broad consensus. Of course, we're going to follow it up in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2671	I record that the representative is not very clear on what the Progress Party wants to do with this further. The party of progress often likes to refer to itself as the party of drivers, which we do not see being followed up on exactly this matter from the Progress Party when they are involved and influence where the state budget will land. Is it in the interests of the drivers that young people who are going to take the theoretical knowledge test have to pay a hidden tax of 68 million. kr to the State Road Service?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2676	No, that's not it. It is difficult to perceive yourself in any other way than what was, and it was that I was quite clear about it: of course, we will continue to work to reduce the overpriced fees. I am a little surprised that a representative from the Workers' Party is criticising the Advance Party for not doing enough for the drivers. The working party increases car charges in its alternative budget by nearly 1 billion. kr. The Progress Party has got with the government parties to reduce the car-related fees by several hundred million dollars in the deal we are dealing with today. There is a completely obvious difference between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party when it comes to car charges. The working party wants them up. The Progress Party wants them down, and that is what we have achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2681	I'm trying to get a grip on why the government parties and the support party think it makes sense to add 25 pst. VAT on alternative treatment. We heard instead the representative Wang Soleim argue that it was because there was no medical reason for that treatment. Is there any justification that the Progress Party also has to support that proposal? For example, when a regular doctor refers to a psychotherapist, is there no medical justification for this? Or is there any other reason why the Progress Party believes it makes sense to add 25 pst. VAT on such a service?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2686	If you read our alternative state budget, you'll see that this is not at all what the Progress Party wants. We added a reversal of the whole increase. The centre part has entered a reversal of parts of the increase. So the Senter Party also proposes to increase the VAT burden on the alternative treatments. We, in cooperation with the government parties, have been given the advantage of waiting and postponing the introduction of VAT until one has once again gone through the authorisation for osteoporosis and naprapats. If they are granted authorisation, they shall not be subject to VAT. It is important for the Progress Party to get through in agreement with the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2693	I have with me the SV's alternative budget, where we show how ordinary people – people most, ordinary families – come out significantly in plus the SV's arrangement compared to the government and majority. As an example, I can mention that a normal household with two adults, two children and a diesel car goes $11,000 plus our arrangement compared to the government. The representative had to go all the way back to the red-green government in his post. It's starting to be a few years ago, but we're now raising the asset tax base, we're cutting a lot of taxes, and we've increased the wine quota – so we might have agreed on something. Most importantly, SV prioritises people far more than the Progress Party does. I am surprised that in the budgetary negotiations with the government priority was given to protecting them with the most expensive housing from more taxes rather than prioritizing lower taxes to people most and ordinary people who are struggling now. I wonder why.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2701	Let me correct an obvious error at first: the red-green government did not cut many charges. The red-green government increased the fees by almost 5 billion. Total kr from 2005 to 2013. As I said in my post: Under the red-green government, also with Kristin Halvorsen as Minister of Finance, ordinary people with ordinary income – 400,000 kroner, 500,000 kroner and 600 000 kroner a year – received increased taxes. It's not true when SV in opposition tries to give the impression that you're a party that gives tax breaks to ordinary people with ordinary incomes, when their story is that they do the opposite when they have power. We were giving priority to doing something about the state property tax, because it had become "a race to the bottom," where one had lowered that limit year after year. Finally, everyone with normal dwellings also had to pay taxes on their property.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2708	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2713	We have been in an extraordinary year for people and businesses throughout Norway, and a number of exceptional measures have been needed, both in the form of compensation schemes for enterprises, income insurance schemes for workers and exceptional measures relating to taxes and charges. In a number of these areas, the Storing has had to take place – to provide new proposals, but also to extend the duration of action. What is particularly special to note, even today when we are going to deal with the tax and tax policies and the tax and tax systems for next year, is that there are several of the mechanisms established in the context of the crisis, which – while the crisis is still very large, and for some industries increasing as of today – are either being removed from the new year or are being notified removed in the course of the year. One of the things we did in the Storting at the time of the crisis was that as far as possible we have to try to make it possible to keep the wheels going, to contribute to new investments and new projects where there is room for it in the situation that is, so that one at least ensures that there are no more unemployed, new unemployed, into the queue of the unemployed, who are already too long. One of the grips we provided, to which the Center Party was central in contributing, was to provide exceptional starter write-offs for those who invest in machines and some other equipment. That mechanism was granted only by the majority for a few months and is now being phased out, at a time when it is particularly important to continue to stimulate new investments, both in order to contribute to growth and value creation and to help reduce emissions through the new, more environmentally friendly investment coming in. Another of the things that the Central Party has been very concerned about in the course of the crisis are targeted measures against some of the industries that are hardest hit. The travel industry, which employs people all over Norway, has been extremely hard hit and is still hard hit. The fact that one has had reduced travel incomes has been an important contribution through the crisis, but above all it is an important contribution when one starts to have activity again, to stimulate more activity, and that one then can have an important handshake. With this state budget, one adds that an industry that is now below the counter — and which may hope for some more activity by the summer, may hope to get into a knee-drenched state — will experience a double charge. It's very unwise. So, once again, there are some new things that appear in this budget. I hear there are many speakers as far as speaking in large words, about large billions and back and forth. But the policy is about seventh and last, the practical consequences for the individual, what is happening in that person's life, for example for those bus drivers who from the New Year get tax on free tickets and free travel that they have had in the past – or many employees on the railway for whom it is similar. Why does that make sense? They are in no way wage-leading in Norwegian society; hardworking workers have had this as an important appreciation in addition to their wages. Some of them have calculated that they will be able to get an additional tax of up to NOK 10000 if they don't tell me the full credit card. And to the commuters, who have once again experienced tightenings from today's government, for example, a day commuter from Eidsvoll to Oslo, who, with this year's budget, gets a further tightening, a tax increase of SEK 400: In the period since 2013, it soon sums up to nearly NOK 6,000 in tax increase. So until what has been the subject of several times as far today in terms of VAT on alternative treatment: No, the Senterpartie does not propose in its alternative budget to introduce VAT on alternative treatment from the New Year. We think it makes sense to go through the system and make an assessment of it. It may be that there may be some of this on which it can be introduced, but then you have to have a proper process, instead of like a do now, where a gets 25 pst. a fee for a number of alternative treatments – particularly unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2730	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2735	With the Right, there'll be more value creation in the districts. The centre party, on its side, proposes a massive increase in property tax at the expense of Norwegian ownership. The representative Gülsvik should have taken a trip to Hans Kristian in the Iron Entrepreneur. Despite tough times, they have to take dividends to pay the property tax. So they have to take out money that would rather have gone to secure the jobs, and on top of that, they have to pay taxes to pay the tax. The worst thing about it is that the foreign competitors in the same market and the same neighborhood are getting away from it. As Hans Kristian so well says, we are thanked by foreign competitors who do not pay property taxes – we are not on the same starting line. So the question for the Central Party is, why would they increase the wealth tax overall when they know that it will weaken the Norwegian family-run companies in competition with the large, established and foreign companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2742	Now I don't know what kind of ownership is behind the company to which the representative Stokkebø refers, but as far as the property tax scheme is concerned, we have a lower tax on the assets of the Centre Party than the government parties and the Progress Party have in their arrangement. In addition, we have other measures that are important for traders, for example for entrepreneurs who invest, which will receive more favourable depreciation rules. For all traders it is the seventh and final sum of the whole that is essential for the conditions of their business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2747	It is quite right that it is the sum that decides, so it will be fatal for many traders when the Senterparte will together increase the property tax on Norwegian company ownership. When we also know that they want to cooperate with parties that want to raise taxes by $10 billion, it looks dark to many. So to one of the challenges many start-up companies experience: often they can't compete with the big, established companies on pay. Therefore, the government has introduced the option tax regime. This means that entrepreneurs can offer employees to become co-owners, attracting more competent people. The government has made this scheme ever better, but the entrepreneurs report that there is a greater need, and that is why the Right will do more. The center party on its side will cut the order by 400 million. kr. So the question is, why would the Senter Party cut down on the option tax system when they know that it will make it harder for small businesses to attract skilled employees in competition with the big ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2754	Of course, it's up to companies what kind of option schemes they have. The question is what kind of tax rules should be in place and whether one should have specifically favourable tax rules relating to options to the extent that they exist on the part of the majority. The centre party has different priorities, we believe that there should be no special favourable rules in this area. On the other hand, we want a much more favourable taxation of labour through lower taxation for people with low incomes, which is important for many enterprises around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2761	Before we move on, I just want to ask the representative, Mr Gülsvik, whether he will address the proposals he and the Central Party have in the matter, alone and with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2766	Yes, I do, so thank you for the question – that was actually the best question so far. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2771	It wasn't bad. The representative then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2779	2020 has been a very different year in many ways, and the representative Geelsvik and I can certainly agree that there has been as much on the negative side as on the positive. But on the positive side, very many Norwegians have ferried in Norway and contributed to creating values here at home instead of abroad. It has been important in a demanding time for travel. We have also spent a lot of time on the cabin. It has been and is important to very many, whether it is a crisis or not, and with home offices many have been able to work from the cabin. It gives too many a calm and peace to get there. Many hundreds of thousands of Norwegians own their own cabin. One of the reasons for this is that there has been a cross-political agreement on favourable tax rules, for example: Why does the Center Party now want to go away from this and make it more expensive for people most to own the cabin and take away many of the cottage dreams?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2784	I was very excited about where this question was going to end. The representative of Bjørnstad was in the traveling life and that people have holidayed in Norway, but it was not a question of why we are saying that the travel life tax should be 6 pst., and that one should not double it, as the Advance Party and the government parties are in favour. In the case of valuations of, inter alia: cabins in the property tax, we believe it is right that it was valued more in line with some other assets that you have. Still, it will be very beneficial to be able to get people a cabin. We think it makes more sense with a greater level of equal treatment than with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2791	The representative Geulsvik is concerned that we have a business that is in a very difficult situation. I feel that this is a genuine concern. But we don't just have a crisis in business, we also have a climate and natural crisis. The Centre Party's alternative budget cuts in many of the climate measures proposed, whether it be the CO 2 tax for fisheries and fisheries or a CO 2 tax that is escalated for non-quota enterprises. The CO 2 tax on natural gas in shipping is abolished, the price of the user charge on petrol and diesel is reduced, so that the pump price goes down. I could also pull up more. At the same time, the EU has set a target of 55 pst. emission reduction. With our agreements, there will also be our emission reduction targets. How does the Centre view that we should be able to achieve these objectives without implementing measures in Norway? And how does he feel that this is an advantage to Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2807	We believe that action should be taken in Norway, and there are several measures that have also worked, but the tax policy for which the government parties and the support party unfortunately stand is a shot for the bow. One is, among other things: related to biofuels, which have resulted in a significant reduction in CO 2 emissions through the fact that it has been possible to market biofuels outside the placing on the market. In the period 2016-2019, more than 2 million tonnes of CO 2 were thus cut. We don't think it makes sense to have a tax on biofuels outside of the marketing requirement, just to stimulate even more biofuels to be traded. Secondly, we also have a proposal for a CO 2 fund for business transport – in line with what has been addressed by both a number of environmental organisations and business organisations – precisely to help achieve practical solutions in environmental policy that contribute both to value creation and to cutting emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2823	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2828	Differences in Norway are increasing. In the wake of the Korona crisis, much more could be at risk of suffering permanent poverty. This decade we have to convert Norway into a green country, independent of the oil and well on the way to zero greenhouse gas emissions. There are large and unresolved tasks ahead of us, tasks that the tax and tax system can contribute to solving. That is why we need a much more progressive, fair and green tax policy. The taxes and charges must be based on the objectives we set for the future, on lower economic differences and lower greenhouse gas emissions. In the SV's alternative budget, we therefore propose lower taxes on ordinary and low labour income and more taxes on wealth, property, high income and inheritance. With increased taxes on wealth and a more progressive tax on income, the wealthiest will contribute much more to the community, while most people come out in favour. Those who make less than 600,000 dollars will get tax relief with SV's policy, and unlike what might be common to believe in this room, it's the people most. Over 70 pst. all employees are taxed in accordance with the SV scheme compared to that of the government. Increased taxes on wealth, inheritance and property and lower taxes on labour – because it must pay off to work and not primarily to inherit, because we need a much stronger redistribution from private wealth to the well-being of the community, and because we need above all that we need too many to invest in an overheating and unfair property market rather than in productive jobs that create values for the future. In the SV's alternative budget, we're also turning the charges in a greener direction because it's got to cost to pollute, and it's worth choosing the greener options. That is why we are increasing the taxes on petrol and diesel, and we are increasing the CO 2 tax because it is urgent to turn on the instruments that allow us to achieve the goal of selling only zero-emission cars in 2025. We're strengthening the incentives for industry and business to invest in new and greener technologies, and we're getting away from the crazy oil tax package that the majority of the population decided on in ours, which has made us risk both unprofitable investments and Norway losing valuable years with important economic and labour market transformations. What we're proposing here is a red and green tax change, a tax shift that makes most people get into plus, but we also get increased income into the community, because we need that. SV has great ambitions for the development of our well-being and of climate solutions, and then we cannot be at peace with the right-hand side's tax cuts. Over 30 B.C.E. kr has been cut in taxes by the government since 2013. That's 30 billion. less into our well-being, to schools, kindergartens, hospitals, the unemployed and the disabled. The tax havens have mainly gone to people with wealth, especially those with the greatest wealth. The 99 pst. on average, a 1 pst tax has been cut by Norwegians with a minimum wealth. of the income during the first bottling period and 0,3 pst. of income in others, while the 1000 richest persons have been cut 7-8 pst. of its taxes on income in both periods. Overall, the government and the majority have given close to 2 billion. kr to the 1 000 richest people in Norway, and that at a time when the debate before today has shown us, where we have a excruciating need for increased incomes for municipalities, to the well-being that is closest to people, at a time when historically many are unemployed, and many are at risk of permanent poverty, at a time when over 100,000 young people are already growing up in poor families. When the Party of Advancement and Government Parties are to sit down and negotiate, it is in order to reach an agreement that protects them with the most expensive housing for increased taxation. There is a consensus that reduces the fees on chocolate and alcohol, but that does not prioritize making the food most people eat daily, slightly cheaper in a demanding time. There is a consensus that underlines that the targeted tax cuts will go to the richest of the country over to most people who are at risk of negative real wage growth next year. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get With that, I take up the SV's proposals and the proposals we have with the Greens and with the Reds.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2854	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2861	The year that we're about to leave behind has been a very demanding year for many. Nearly 200,000 are affected by corona-related unemployment, and enterprises in particularly vulnerable sectors, such as typical service industries have challenges to keep wheels running. There's reason to fear more bankruptcies in the future. For the government, job number one is to take care of the jobs, prevent unemployment from breaking down and ensure that people have a job to do when the crisis is over. In the middle of this difficult period, SV will send a solid tax bill of 15 billion. SEK to, among others Norwegian private jobs. It is a tax bill that has to be paid even if the company is in deficit in the Corona Year 2020. Is this a Christmas gift that SV thinks people who are out on the market and the companies they work in will appreciate?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2870	The SV proposes a tax change, from income to wealth, inheritance and property. It is in line with the current consensus — also internationally — among economists and seen as a sensible tax shift. There is reason to recall once again that property taxes in Norway are a personal tax on personal property. It's true that it's been a tough year, but for some it's been less tough than for others. The stock market goes so it laughs. The wealth of some is growing widely during this period. Then I think it's extra special to choose to cut the tax on shares even more, as this government does. It is targeted tax cuts for those who have the most. It is also unwise in times of crisis when we should provide more direct support to ensure increased demand and keep the wheels in operation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2875	Property taxes on working capital are not a typical wealth tax, even though many try to produce it this way. To believe that equity values in own enterprises do not represent tangible values must be due to a misunderstanding. The jobs we have lost this year must be replaced by new jobs in private businesses, because they are the ones who pay for well-being. I think many people are struggling to understand how to create more green, smart jobs with SV's tax arrangements, when SV at the same time makes it worse to start and run your own business. We must not forget that the backbone of the labour market in this country is the small and medium-sized family-run enterprises around the country. In fact, the property tax is a strange tax that hits those companies particularly hard, and something that foreign owners avoid. Does SV agree that private sector value creation pays for well-being, and why would it be even more difficult and burdensome to create more new jobs and to increase the preference of foreign ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2885	Here's a lot of misunderstandings that you have to deal with. One is that the taxes on wealth are not a tax on wealth. It's essentially that. It's very focused on them with the very largest assets. As I said in a previous reply: Only one per million of those who pay the property tax – 4,000 people – pay one third of all the income that comes from the property tax. It shows that it is very well equipped to meet the very richest. It is also important to remember that although non-resident owners in Norway do not pay taxes on wealth, they tend to have higher taxes on capital in their country of origin. Norway is in many ways a very good tax haven for people with large assets and for business compared to other countries. We don't have a very high tax level in Norway when you look at capital and wealth, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2892	The Progress Party proposed in its alternative budget to remove the user charge on petrol for recreational craft. Why does SV want to impose a user charge on diesel for recreational boats, all the time boats don't use roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2897	What I think we can agree on is that we need a new name for the fee. But having the fee I want to defend to the highest degree. It's about getting into two things. It's about cutting greenhouse gas emissions. There are also greenhouse gas emissions from recreational boating, and if we are to achieve the targets Norway has set itself, both the Climate Health and the SV climate budget show that emissions need to be cut there as well. The other side of it is that we can build up a pretty interesting and important industry to produce electric motors also for boats in Norway. There are manufacturers and manufacturers of it in Norway. This can be a growth industry that can deliver both nationally and internationally. The use of fees to stimulate their competitiveness is wise. We've done that in other areas before. Here we can do it in an area where we can also get new businesses, and I think that's tricked.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2904	The government proposes both an increase in the CO 2 tax and an extension in some areas. But I'd like to go back to that by abolishing the user fee on biofuels. I have been here several times and have been blamed by SV for the government bathing in palm oil, when we have reached our climate targets. Then my question is: Does the representative agree that simply removing the user charge for biofuels outside the placing on the market creates a high risk that a large amount of palm oil will once again be introduced into the use of biofuels in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2914	Using charges to prevent the use of palm oil has never been SV’s preferred policy solution here. SV has challenged the representative several times, which he is sure to be aware of. When you get into the situation we are in now, I think it is right to remove that introduction of the tax, because it will quickly prevent the roll-out of absolutely necessary climate solutions in Norway, which we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Again, I can refer to the very good climate budget we have put forward here, which is bound up with the Climate Action Survey, which shows that we need biofuels to cut greenhouse gas emissions. We agree that we have to prevent it from being palm oil, but it has to be done in ways other than using a fee. That must be done by saying that we should not have palm oil into our mix. We're going to keep on going.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2919	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2924	We're in a very difficult time with a global economic crisis because of the pandemic. We also notice that here in Norway. There's a lot of unemployment, we have a lot of businesses that are struggling. At the same time, we are in a climate and natural crisis, also emphasised the last week with a United Nations climate summit. Although emissions this year are falling due to the pandemic, the world is not nearing the targets we need to keep global warming below 2 degrees. Nevertheless, something positive is happening. The EU has just adopted 55 pst. emissions cut by 2030, and Norway and the government have been an important driver to achieve it. For many years, we have given priority to climate and environmental action in our budgetary work, both in government and in negotiations with the government in the past. It's been a top priority for a long time. We have achieved results, that we have now cut emissions four years in a row, and a climate plan will soon be presented on how to achieve the climate targets in 2030. An important instrument for achieving results is a green tax shift, where we reduce emissions while creating jobs. We've done a lot to reduce the tax burden on ordinary people over these years. So, as others have also pointed out, a normal family pays about NOK 14 000 less in taxes today than if the rules in 2013 were followed. We also follow this up in 2021, with relief in the income tax for people by reducing the step tax. We're increasing the rates of the minimum deduction of pay, social security and pensions. To the issue of taxes on wealth: we're putting down taxes on wealth, and it's important to remember that this isn't just about the top prom. This is primarily about the wide proportion of enterprises in Norway. The large proportion of persons paying taxes on wealth are ordinary small enterprises with ordinary Norwegian small business owners who benefit from this over a long period of time. We continue to work to achieve the climate goals. We extend the CO 2 fee both by increasing it by 5 pst. in general and increasing in the petroleum sector by 7 pst. We're holding on to the electric car benefits that we've been on for years now. They have been strengthened since 2013 in many areas. So we're going to have a share of over 50 pst. this year and pursue the objectives of achieving the objective of selling only zero-emission vehicles in 2025. We're expanding the CO 2 tax. We have already extended the CO 2 fee for fishing and fishing, with a compensation scheme. We escalate the user charge for LPG and natural gas. It is implemented progressively year by year. We also have a CO 2 tax that is introduced gradually for non-quota industries. Then we have the big conversion in hydropower, with us going from a rent tax to a cash flow tax, which will add up to and provide a basis for investments and upgrades in hydropower in Norway. On the tax side, too, this budget follows up a policy that has been pursued every year from 2013 to today. We have a turn over to a green tax shift. To illustrate that this works: At the beginning of December, there was a new ranking of countries. The Climate Change Performance Index ratings 57 countries each year, representing 90 pst. of world emissions, over what kind of climate policy the different countries are conducting. In 2013, Norway was in the 31st place after this ranking. This year we're in fifth place. We have gone from having a poor assessment to having a high assessment. There is no doubt that environmental policy is working.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2953	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2958	As the representative was inside his post, he says that the electric car benefits are maintained. When the budget was presented by the government, there was a proposal for an increased CO 2 component in the one-off charge, increased battery range requirements for chargeable hybrids and the introduction of a traffic insurance charge for electric cars. Following the agreement with the Progress Party, the increased CO 2 component and the requirement for increased reach are gone, but the introduction of a traffic insurance charge for electric cars is retained. Is it wise to do this relative strengthening of fossil cars as this implies, in relation to electric cars, four years before the objective of selling only emission-free cars should be introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2969	It's not a impairment. We keep the system that makes electric car sales this year over 50 p.m., which, according to all forecasts, will continue until next year, and that will continue as there will be both more car types and better quality. The electric car is becoming more and more competitive, and that's what's important. Where we have a rotation of the CO 2 component, is on vans. On vans, we're way under on electric cars, so there's a turn. With regard to the previous annual electric car charge, it is now set at the same cost as a motorcycle, and I don't think that's what matters if people buy an electric car or not. The most important thing is that this pays off when you buy. If you are involved in paying into the community, but less than what you do with a traditional car, I don't think I affect the sale at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2979	There will be no government budget without proposals for a new levy from this majority, with the Support Party Progress Party. In the budget that is now being adopted, there are, among other things: an incineration tax on waste, which has been strongly criticised by the industry because it is considered that it will not contribute to reducing climate emissions, that the choice of products and composition takes place entirely elsewhere, and that, on the contrary, it can contribute to the export of waste only to Sweden and contribute to more transport, in addition to jobs and value creation in Sweden instead of in Norway. Why does the Left and the Government consider that it makes sense to impose such a charge, when Sweden, which has such a charge, is also considering changing it or perhaps removing its levy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e2985	It is true that the Left has been involved in the introduction of environmental taxes. I guess from 2013 it's $6.7 billion. NOK, and as I also said in my post, it seems. In the case of combustion plants, I believe that there has also been a expectation within the industry that there will also be a CO 2 tax here. Some of it is within the quota system today, while something is going to be outside. And what we're doing now is not a full CO 2 tax, that's probably 25 pst. which lies there, precisely because we are going to get this fee started in that area too, so that there will be a CO 2 tax on all emissions. Then we also have to look at other things, and one thing is how we're going to stimulate more circular economy. We have to think about that. Is there anything you can see about improvements? The second is the competitive situation by introducing measures to store CO 2, or to reduce CO 2, including in the waste incineration industry. Now that we've put aside money for CO 2 capture and storage on Klemetsrud, this is going to be one part of the calculation that can add up to make it pay over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3012	It is quite right that you start a fee, but the question is what is the practical consequence of a charge as you have set it up, because that is the goal. The goal may not be for a mere person to stand flagging with some new taxes and some new revenues to the treasury, but that is the practical consequence in reality. And then the industry itself says that as this charge is set up, it will probably lead to more garbage being driven to Sweden, to combustion there. What is the positive environmental account of it? What is positive about the availability of capacity in Norway in terms of value creation and jobs as a result of this charging policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3017	Now you have the same fee in Sweden, so that waste is being driven from Norway to Sweden, has been a problem issue that we have had for a long time. What we need to look at is what fees we can have that stimulates us to reduce emissions. This charge will be accompanied and stimulated to reduce emissions at the point of emission, i.e. the combustion plant. And then you have to look at, when it's in the circular economy, whether there's other charges that can help and stimulate to reduce the amount of waste, the amount of fossil waste, and also see if there's any grip you can do on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3022	In October, Minister for Climate and Environment Sveinung Rotevatn wrote the following on Twitter – and I apologize for turning it into bookkeeping: I understand that the electric car owners prefer not to pay a traffic insurance fee. But we are also increasing the CO 2 component of the one-off fossil car tax in this budget, so it will be at least as attractive to choose an electric car in the future as it is today. In the United Nations on 14 October, the same Council of State writes: The government's electric car billing is one of the reasons why emissions have fallen four years in a row. Therefore, the benefits exist at the same time as we make it more expensive to buy a fossil car. It is necessary for us to achieve the climate objectives. Nevertheless, the government parties and the Progress Party in the budget unit choose to eliminate both the increase in the environmental tax on fossil cars and the increase in the CO 2 component of the one-off fossil car tax. So, when climate change determines that the instruments for electric cars need to be reinforced, how does this go together?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3043	I have been engaged in electric car policy for many years, ever since I suggested that electric cars should also enter the collective fields. Since 2013, we have improved the electric car rate by removing the VAT on leasing, and by negotiating charges on cars where we extended the electric car exemption to 2017. We have also extended the fee exemption in two government platforms and are ready to keep the electric car benefits for all these years, and from 2013 to today we have gone from a little over 3 pst. electric car sales to more than 50 pst. electric car sales. The most important thing next year is to keep to the benefits. That is what determines whether the increase in sales of electric cars will continue, and that is what we are doing in these budget decisions as well. It's a maintenance of a very strong bet that goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3050	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3055	Thank you very much for both the case spokespersons, the committee and all the good forces on the Storting and the outside who have helped us to achieve this agreement and made it possible for us now to reach the decisions that we are going to take. The tax and tax system in Norway is good and important, and the grip that is being done there also builds up under the ambition of the government and the government party to build a resilient welfare society. Then we have to fund the well-being we have, and we have to have a tax system that we rigged smartly, so that we contribute to growth, value creation and activity in the whole country, and that we get a proper and real green transition in place. And there the results speak for themselves – greenhouse gas emissions are falling, and Norway has had good growth on a look at the period from 2013 onwards. The exception, of course, applies to the year in which we stand, which is an exception in many ways. In the tax and tax arrangements we are now going to adopt, there are a lot of grips that I think are fastening a little closer to comments. The government's adding up, and they're agreeing that we're introducing a source tax of 15 pst. interest and royalties. It's a good and proper grip because it causes values to be created here, as well as to be taxed here. In this way, we can counteract excess migration to low-income countries, and it is a proper and good act that the Storting decision is now being implemented during the year. In addition to this, the government has discussed some principles for a resilient car tax system. They are also right and important, and they will be debated in the UK later when we will deliver on them in the future. Maybe the biggest grip is about the hydropower, and it's about how we're going to have a hydropower tax that allows us to take out the potential that's in it. It's one of the adventures we often tell ourselves in our national history – about how the water force and the waterfall energy have been something we've been using as people for hundreds of years, from one go to using it in sawmills and sawmills, until it became a building block in the industrialization of Norway. In large and small, about 1,500 hydroelectric power plants were operating in Norway in 2016, if one includes small power plants. Many of these are getting old. Many of them need investment, and it is also a potential for further development, so that we can get the green force that Norway needs to be able to further build jobs and to continue to have low prices for consumers. The industry itself has considered that current interest rate taxation has hindered investment, and in the draft budget the government has proposed that one should refocus the tax system and that one for new investments should have a cash flow tax. It will provide a significant liquidity boost for the industry while at the same time providing for more stable and prudent conditions. The government proposal will provide significant liquidity to drivers – estimates say about 800 million. DKK 2021 – because the company pays less taxes in the years it invests, and over time this will be neutral because one collects more taxes later, after the investment has come into place. Changes in the tax on electricity are actually dealt with in the Innst. 4 L for 2020-2021, which is a joint debate with Document 8:125 S for 2019-2020, for which I have our case spokesmen. As the changes in the value of taxes in water power proposed in Prop. 1 LS for 2020-2021, according to the proposals in Document 8:125 S, I will not, as the case-leader, go further on the proposals in the draft representative. But I think that the unity that is now leading is good because the government has got a connection to the grips of a do, and the majority also say that a desire for this to be evaluated at an early stage. Then you can also come back to look at other improvements that you can make if you need them. The Government Party has concluded a budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. It involves some tax and tax breaks, also for some commodity groups that I believe the bulk of the population see that the Christian People's Party has not wanted to give priority. But the sum of the budget we have presented is good, and we're delivering a government budget that also shows a clear direction in which we continue with a green tax shift, where we strengthen families, and where we strengthen Norwegian ownership. What I mean is a good direction – and a good direction for Norway – that can show a viable way out of a crisis we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3078	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3083	Ordinary people have got less to route with under the right government, of which the Christian People's Party is part. With the Workers' Party's tax arrangements, a normal family would have got about $6,000 more to travel with than one sheep with the Solberg government's tax arrangements. Out in the district, where we both cage, it's common to commute. The commuter distance Askvoll-Førde has been approximately NOK 3000 more expensive than in 2013. The shuttle distance Høyanger-Førde has been about NOK 2600 more expensive. Why does the Christian People's Party think it's right to punish the commuters in the district?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3090	The premise that the representative Heggø mentions first in his post is totally wrong, for the first. She says that ordinary families have increased the tax burden under this government. It's completely wrong. One's got $14,000 less in taxes. In addition, this government has increased child-rearing significantly, strengthening all the families who have children, especially those who have small children. The question is related to the commuting deduction: if you look at the changes in the commuting deduction and whether they increase the payments – or actually the reduced deductions – has happened, it is not in pig-grown strokes. These changes have meant that those who live in those parts of the country with the highest and most developed collective networks have to pay more. The changes that were made are about simplifying the tax system we have, and the deductions that are there. I think that's a proper priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3097	I said that ordinary families have less to rot with, and that's right. The hydropower is our most important and most flexible source of energy, with few conflicts associated with it, at least in relation to wind power. One of the reasons for this is that the time for the large hydroelectric power build-up is over. Another reason is the social contract and local acceptance, which is at the bottom of the water force. This social contract has government challenged time and time again. What was supposed to be full compensation for the loss of the property tax on production equipment has gone from full compensation, which would be SEK 730 million. NOK 500 million. SEK and up to 300 million. kr. How does the Christian People's Party explain this breach of trust, and what does it do with confidence and the will for future upgrading around the power municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3107	The representative's question is, I believe, about the compensation for the loss of individual elements in the property tax of some municipalities that had particularly high incomes from it. It is quite true that there is a different amount inside, but one has also taken action to make the municipalities that have had the biggest loss of income the biggest compensation. That's what I think I'm right. I also believe that the tax changes we are making now, where one introduces a cash flow tax on hydropower, will allow us to make better use of that resource and make more sensible and socially profitable investments. It also benefits all municipalities that get local activity, local tax access, and that can use the green, renewable power that the investments will lead to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3114	I want to get back to the theme that was up in the line-up here earlier, about commuters. The representative of Storehaug made it appear that it is those who live near the largest cities, who serve the most in terms of tightening up the commuting allowance. But those who have really lost their mind after 2013 are the ones who have to go far to get to work. Especially in today's pandemic situation, there are also many who have to change jobs and perhaps commute even longer than before. Those who only have walking distance to work do not notice any difference, they get no use of commuting deductions anyway. It is those who depend on commuting far to work, who like to have a long way to go, are long away from their family, and have a heavy burden in connection with it, which is affected by this. Why is it the right policy that they should get thousands of dollars in extra tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3121	The speech I've seen shows that it's not the representative of Gülsvik's old home state, Sogn and Fjordane, who is overrepresented when it comes to the outcome of those changes, but the representative of his new home state, Akershus, who has a well-developed collective network, compared to other parts of the country. This is simply about simplifying and making our subtractions simple and more transparent, so that you can be sure that the subtractions that are there are good. I believe that we have the right priorities, which are also passed on in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3126	Of course, when a cutter in the travel allowance, the support and the extra contribution a sheep makes when a commuter is long, it is they who commute far, who get the greatest effect of it. It is absolutely right that there are many in my new home state, Akershus. If, for example: commuter turn-return Eidsvoll, has one in effect – if one rains in 2021 kroner – an additional tax burden of 5000–6000 kroner. There's a lot for someone commuting, and if there's two in a family commuting, there's a big click. Does the representative feel that it makes sense that those who commute and have an extra cost and an extra burden on their family as a result of it are going to get a tax return compared to other people in Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3133	If you look at what parts of the country people have the option to choose alternative travel modes, the distance that the representative Gielsvik takes up is just an example of that. It's a stretch where it's possible to take trains, where one doesn't depend on having two cars in a family, as one is in the representative Gülsvik's old homeland. I believe that the policy that this government has pursued over time is right. One has implemented a green tax shift, which has made some deductions simplified, and where one has used the funds one has received, to strengthen the economy of Norwegian business and Norwegian families on the other hand. I think I've been a good replacement, and I think it's going to be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3140	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3145	There has been a shift in the debate on taxes and taxes. The tax haven's gotten bigger than ever. On the right, the goal has always been ideologically clear and clear: taxes must be cut – at least what they will cost. The left side has become more skeptical of charges because of the unfairness of flat rates. The Greens absolutely share the concern that charges are most severe for those with the lowest income, but unlike other parties, we believe that the redistribution between those with much and those with less should be done through targeted grants and above the tax bill, not by removing the charges on resource use to contribute to a green innovation and making it much easier to choose environmentally friendly. So our whole policy doesn't make it worse for most people, it makes it much easier. In fact, most in Norway want to contribute to nature in everyday life, but it is often heavy and expensive. The Green Party will make the right choice easy. In our budget, we do that, for example. easier and cheaper to travel environmentally friendly, by better offer and 20 pst. reduced price of public transport. We also make it easier to eat healthy, environmentally friendly food by removing the VAT on fruit and green and organic food. We make it easier to reduce resource consumption by cheaper repairs rather than having to buy new ones. So the Greens want a real green tax shift. We've seen how good it works in the electric car policy, and it's time to move on to other areas as well. It has to be more expensive to waste resources – plus more money between the hands of the low-income groups. We have nine years left to cut our emissions dramatically. Then we have to implement measures on all fronts, both through the use of the tax and tax system, and also through direct support to advance the green shift. The government increases the charges on CO 2, but at the same time reduces the user charge to compensate for the increase in charges. It doesn't help at all. It gives de facto nothing pushed either to replace the fossil car or to drive it a little bit less. Instead, the Greens propose that this whole increase in petrol and diesel taxes should be distributed directly again to the Norwegian people. We pay out more to those who live in the countryside than to those who live in the cities. In this way, with the climate tax for distribution, we want to make it even more attractive to replace the petrol or diesel car with electric mobility, electric buses, electric cars and electric bicycles, for those who live in cities. As I have said: the redistribution must be done over the tax bill and not by cutting taxes on environmentally harmful consumption. This is basic economic sense. That is why we are proposing a tax treatment that provides tax relief for those with incomes below NOK 700000, while for those with incomes above NOK 700000 it is necessary to pay more in taxes. Greens promote proposals that contribute to higher taxes and taxes than the government does. On the other hand, we spend much less of our common oil money in the budget, so we have a more responsible budget. In addition, expenditure on the Greens' budget will be reduced gradually because many of the expenditure increases we are proposing are also temporary. We propose to increase the subsidies in order to contribute to emission-free shipping. We're increasing investment in CCS, and we're also proposing more money for sea wind. Expenditure related to emissions will also be reduced in the long term. It is not rights-based schemes that bind the expenditure side of the budget in the future. Rather, the expenses we no longer want as soon as the green shift is completed. So this fear of any kind of fee, which we now see increasingly strong signs of, will only delay a green conversion. We need to actively use the means we have to reduce emissions and resource dissipation. Then we actually have to dry down taxes on what pollutes, and reduce taxes on what does not pollute. The injustice resulting from a so-called flat tax must be compensated through the tax system. It's so hard – but it's that easy. With this, I am addressing the proposals for the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3167	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3174	Norwegian owners and Norwegian companies have built solid businesses that ensure safe jobs throughout the country for many years. These companies believe that the Right is very important to ensure the well-being of all of us. Most of the companies have chosen to use most of their profits to invest in their own business – new kitchen in the hotel, new chess or new truck, rather than using the funds for their own personal consumption. This believes that the right is good householdkeeping, and it ensures safe jobs and good welfare for all, even when the market is fluctuating. The Greens want a fairer wealth tax. Enterprises pay taxes on income, dividends and VAT, pay company taxes and employers' taxes, and pay sick pay for the first 16 days an employee is ill. Does the Environmental Party of Greens believe it is fair that a Norwegian owner of a hotel must pay taxes on the property of its hotel building regardless of whether the company is running with profits or not, while the foreign owner across the street does not pay taxes on the property of his hotel building?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3183	Thank you for the question. The Green Party is in favour of a rapid transition to greener operations. We grant large grants to business owners who want to invest in a renewal of their operations, and we also want to support them by increasing the reimbursements for those who have leave during the employer's period, first of all permits that have been started from the autumn to 1 March 2021. It's probably not the wealth tax that breaks down these travel businesses and the other innovative businesses we have, but there's no support for getting through this crisis that's now building up. When they receive income again, there is no reason why they should not be able to pay any more in taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3190	I note that the Greens will not respond to whether it is fair or not. Another question: The Green Party is also very critical that private companies can benefit from dividends in 2020 and 2021. How does the Environmental Party of Greens think that the Norwegian hotel owner, who has almost failed to trade in 2020, will be able to pay its property tax without making any profit? Is he or she going to borrow from the bank to pay the property tax, or how do you think? Because that's not how the hotel owner can pay his property tax with the outside wall of his hotel?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3198	It is an unusually good point that one cannot sell the outside wall of his house. That's perfectly understood. When it comes to getting through this crisis, it is important that those operating tourism businesses receive the subsidies they need to get through the crisis and that they are not squandered prematurely. When the government then cuts down on the subsidies in the crisis, it is important that we lift them up again. With regard to taxes on wealth, it is probably not the person who breaks the hotel owners, but the lack of turnover and increased expenditure during a crisis period. Before the crisis, most of these went brilliantly well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3207	Once again I do not get an answer to my question. I'm trying with a third anyway. Private Norwegian-owned enterprises are important for our common well-being and for the welfare state. We rely on them to sell their goods, both domestically and abroad. Does the Environmental Party of Greens believe that the wealth tax strengthens or weakens the competitiveness of Norwegian companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3212	Property taxes are a very small part of the total tax burden. What determines whether, for example: Norwegian travel, since the representative focuses in particular on it, survives, is that they get through this crisis, and that they are given the opportunity to invest in new, green and smarter travel products, which attract increased turnover and thus ensure more profitable operation. It should be elementary for the Right to understand that it's the overall picture of the economy that matters, not the little tab that the Right now hammers on again and again, that's the wealth tax, which is irrelevant in the big picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3219	I would like to begin by congratulating the representative on the direction of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European It was not very surprising for us who are often in this Chamber, because the Greens and the Greens vote together in 86 pst. of the cases. What was a little surprising, however, is that the Greens have put forward a proposal that will increase taxes and taxes by 32.5 billion. kr. It is almost – but only almost – so that the Greens can make Red appear to be responsible. The question is, in a situation where we are in the greatest crisis in the country for a long time, with 200,000 unemployed, I wonder if the representative really believes that it is the right medicine to ease 32.5 billion. In the case of increased taxes and taxes on business. If yes, is there any of these increases in fees that would be an indispensable requirement of a left-wing election to enable the Green Party to support the government after the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3230	I thank you for the question. It's perfectly correct that we net increase taxes and taxes by a total of 32.5 billion. kr. That's also because we're distributing a lot of that money again. This money goes back to incentives, social balancing measures and business start-ups to boost the activity of the innovative business community. Taking money from resource use and then distributing it again to social distribution, innovation and increased value creation is what is a real green tax shift. In 1995, 4 pst went. of GDP at green charges. Now it's more than halved, and the government still has, so we've had grayer charges now than we had in 1995. There is a problem for Norwegian industry when the EU is now changing the framework conditions for competitiveness and competitiveness towards 2070.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3239	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3244	During 2020, the parties have disagreed on a lot, but there has also been a touching consensus on some things – on paper. When we adopted the scheme for enterprises to compensate for expenditure, a unanimous finance committee wrote: ‘The Committee assumes that lessors contribute to a reduction in the rental of the lessees during the period of shut-down or a significant decrease in the turnover of the lessee.’ This will probably win the prize for the most naïve formulation of the year. The majority were content with a linguistic index finger and were allowed to impose requirements and conditions on the enormous State rescue packages. Red, on the other hand, suggested several requirements that could ensure that the landlords and large business owners also had to contribute to the much-mentioned work. Even today's Business Life has pointed out: ‘When Community money is used, the aim must be to save jobs and workers, not to open a safety net for capitalists and lenders.’ It's very well said by today's Business. Up to today – what is the situation? Yes, what Red warned against has happened. Today, the bankruptcy is facing a huge number of small businesses around the country – outdoors, restaurants, cultural offerings, hairdressers. Thousands of people are at risk of losing their livelihood in a short time. This will also have long-lasting consequences after the pandemic is over. At the same time, Olav Thon's company went 566 million. kr in profit for the period July to September. Christian Ringnes’ company profited more than half a billion in the first nine months of the year. For some, the pandemic has been a good business – and that with the Bigholding's blessing. Billions of money went to serious companies that are struggling were shut down right into the property companies, which demanded rents as if nothing had happened. The country's wealthiest is about as rich as they were before the pandemic, and the financial press is now writing about dividend fixing in 2021. At the same time, we know that more than 200,000 people attend Christmas without work, and that many thousands have fallen completely out of the safety net, thanks to the decision of the bourgeois majority in the Stortinget. This isn't just unfair, it's tragic. It has to be corrected, and it has to happen quickly. Red proposes to impose both a special tax on the profits of large property companies, such that those who have demanded rent with a hard hand pay back some of the crisis profits they have had, and we suggest that the government force the large landlords to provide rent to companies that receive support from the state. In addition, Red proposes the introduction of an additional tax on dividends paid by companies that have received state aid for crisis relief, so that the taxpayers’ incomes granted to save jobs are not lost in dividends to owners and shareholders. Red also wants a fairer charging policy which makes it cheaper to live environmentally friendly and more expensive to pollute, and which preserves important jobs in the food industry and in trade in goods. The Coronapandemic and closed borders have shown how extensive border trade actually is, and we propose that the government establish a strategy for how to use charging policies more actively, so that it takes account of the effect it has, to provide Norwegian jobs, for climate impact and also for health impact. Red will reintroduce a progressive inheritance tax, have a more progressive wealth tax for the many millionaires, and we will increase the tax for those who are watering in dividends. We are therefore also proposing to remove the shielding deduction for dividends, which will ensure that the upper class in our country can collect billions every year, completely free of tax. Values created by the work of others, by the real value creators, by the employees, are collected by the owners free of tax each year. We'll have an end to that. Instead, we want to spend that money on a real crisis package and rescue package for the employees. That is how Stortinget could help to ensure that the bill for the crisis is distributed more fairly. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3269	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3276	I think it's an honest and nice thing to put forward your alternative. What's problematic is if you live in an alternative reality, and that's a bit of the challenge for the Red Party. Does the Moxnes representative really think that when 2020 is over and the companies are in 2021 and have to settle accounts, that they are facing a situation where there is a payoff and a bonus party? Does the representative of the Bears Moxnes really believe that when 2020 is over and you're going into 2021, the companies are wondering how to run the state for money, or how to survive the next month at all? We are in one of the greatest crises after the war. Does the Moxnes representative really mean 30 billion? kr in increased tax burden is the solution for the country's businesses and jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3283	This would be a good question from a maybe a little naive and credulous social democrat, but this comes from the Right. Right should know that capitalists think primarily of their own profits and profits. Right should see – at least today – that their naive belief in the fact that the large property barons would only cut the rent of their own good will to ensure the survival of their businesses was a very naive assumption from the Right and the rest of the bulk of the population. Capitalism is quite logical and quite cynical: the capitalists want to secure profit for themselves and other owners. They do anything – within the rules of the law, sometimes outside – to achieve this purpose. That's why it's naive of the Right to believe that the capitalists won't be enriching themselves carelessly if they get permission to do so, after the pandemic is over. They do it along the way in the pandemic. We'll see about Christian Ringnes and Olaf Thon. It happens here and now, so the Right must take more seriously that capitalism works capitalistly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3288	The representative Bears Moxnes has often been out criticising the Right and Government's tax policy and has had quite a hard stamping on it. At the same time, the representative and his party are one of the main support wheels of the Workers' Party in the Stortinget. If the Workers' Party ever – in many, many years – should have some hope of coming to power, Red will be an important support wheel in that sense. How, then, will the representative of Moxnes comment that the Workers' Party – apart from a very poor increase in the wealth tax – chooses to continue with the Right and the government's tax regime over the last seven years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3302	It is a very good question that comes from the representative Kapur from the Right, and that perhaps the Workers' Party should answer, but I have some theories about it. It is enough that the Labour Party unfortunately allows the Right to define the space for action on welfare in Norway. What we see is that when the Right is in government, the taxes are cut. The working party takes over and keeps the tax level as low. The right wins the choice again and cuts the treasures. The working party takes over again and keeps the tax level. They've lost faith in community solutions, they've lost faith in the fact that we're doing the best we can by bringing in from those who have the most, and spending the money to make sure that we're building up well-being in common, rather than through private solutions, on which the Right has almost religious faith. The answer is enough that the Workers' Party does not have enough self-confidence on behalf of the community and the left, but it has Red. We go to the elections on a policy that will give more return to ordinary people, to the value creators – the workers – while those who live by the work and efforts of others will contribute a little more to the community. Then we can also build up the well-being in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3309	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3314	2020 has put our society to great test. The pandemic has reminded us of how vulnerable we are. It has also reminded us of how grateful we should be for solid social institutions, high trust in each other and the economic buffer we have through the Oil Fund. We are still in the midst of the crisis, and the situation is still uncertain as to both how the pandemic will develop and how the situation will develop in the business and labour markets beyond spring. At the same time, it is encouraging that the OECD now provides strong support for the government's fiscal policy through 2020 and 2021, and several international institutions state that Norway is among the countries most vulnerable to the post-pandemic situation, both because of the control of the infection and because we have been active in the economy. Facilitating innovation, transformation and activity is crucial to ensuring a strong and competitive private business, even after the crisis. To make it more profitable for Norwegian owners to invest in businesses, we also reduce the wealth tax on working capital in 2021. We're converting the rent tax on hydropower into a cash flow tax. It facilitates profitable investments in renewable hydropower. We also continue to work to reduce overpriced fees. It will be demanding for many businesses next year. Therefore, the government has proposed further improvements to the framework conditions for the companies in 2021 and has agreed with the Progress Party to extend the temporary system for the suspension of taxes and charges by two months, by February. Similarly, we have agreed with the Progress Party to continue the low value added tax for, among other things. overnight and passenger transport of 6 pst. until 1 July, and we have extended the suspension of the flight passenger fee by 2021. We need to deal with this crisis in a way that also responds to the long-term challenges we face. They'll be at least the same on that day of everyday life is normal again. We see that the government's climate policy is working. Climate emissions are on the way down. In order to achieve the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we propose inter alia: that the CO2 tax is increased by 5 pst. in addition to the price increase. We also secure the tax foundation and close holes in the tax system. We introduce withholding taxes on interest, royalty and certain rental conditions and remove the exemption for VAT in alternative treatment and cosmetic surgery and treatment. Overall, the budget for next year will contribute to activity and jobs across the country, but it will also take Norway more steps towards a greener and more modern society that creates more and includes more. Finally, I would like to thank the Stortinget for a good cooperation in meeting with the pandemic. There have been many and good discussions about interventions, and a lot is in place both to create activity and to secure jobs for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3333	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3338	The municipality of Bø in the Vesterålen decided to lower the municipal property tax rate and risked losing many million kroner after that decision through the income balancing system for the municipalities. Fortunately, however, there came a helping hand from the government, and the night before the budget meeting, the rapporteur received an e-mail from the government even though a special rule is being established only for the municipality of Bø. The State Secretary said to the newspapers that it was positive that the municipalities thought creatively and created activity. So my question to the Minister of Finance is whether he is afraid, or whether he wants to welcome, that several municipalities participate in this kind of tax competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3343	I am particularly pleased that both the rapporteur in Bø and the rapporteurs in other municipalities, including from several parties, are committed to facilitating value creation. I think we should cheer on that from Stortinget. There are many ways to do this – in some municipalities, knowledge institutions can be provided; elsewhere, there is infrastructure; in the third municipality, there may be land policy or being a yes municipality. Boo has chosen to reduce taxes on wealth in order to attract more private capital and have more people contribute to the value creation of the municipality. The fine municipality is going to lose money, at least next year, on the grip they've taken. The initial wallpaper is probably about five million. kr, and they have to pay for it. What other municipalities choose to do, I think we have to leave to them. But I'm glad that several municipalities are betting on value creation locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3348	I thank you for your answer. It is exciting to see that tax professionals say that this is not an effective way to increase investment in a municipality. It is an effective step to ensure that more people with large assets live in a municipality – and then it will be exciting to keep an eye on whether these people will live in this municipality. The rapporteur in Bø is a profiled Right-Rapporteur, a profiled District Voice from the Right. He has even been appointed as adviser to District Minister Linda Hofstad Helleland. So my question is whether there has been contact between the government and the municipality of Bø in the design of the municipality's tax decision, and whether there is anything in that dialogue – the possible dialogue – between the government and the municipality of Bø that specifically indicates that precisely those, for precisely this grip, should get a special exemption from the rules that apply to everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3355	That question should probably be addressed almost to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who is responsible for the municipal income system. He is responsible for this matter. But I record that there are many parties in Bø that support the decision that has been made. This rapporteur was also the rapporteur for a common list for the Right and the Labour Party for a while back in time, and I note that there are many who believe that the measures taken are correct. I agree with the representative that it will be exciting to see. I do not think any conclusions should be drawn in advance about the impact this will have on investments in the municipality. But once again, it is good for rapporteurs and local politicians to facilitate value creation. This is the way we can ensure both housing and well-being in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3360	There's a lot of replicators, so there'll be one line of each of them that's left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3365	I have tried to ask the representative Wang Soleim earlier today about the «good» Right-wing policy that is tax cut, according to the Right's website, and I asked Wang Soleim why there was no tax cut in the budget that came from the government in October. But we don't have to look back anymore, we can look forward. I won't ask about the budget for 2022, then I know what the answer is, that we'll know later. But the government council and I had a line change about tax cuts about. Six weeks ago, and then Sanner was skeptical about cutting fees. Is there still the position of the Council of State, despite the fact that it appears on the Right's website as a «fucking Right policy»?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3371	The representative should be pleased that there are several parties and several representatives who are pleased with the fees we have received jointly. The government parties – the government parties of today – and the Progress Party have cut taxes and taxes by 34 billion. kr. I'm concerned about the effect of these. I am pleased that it will pay to work, it will pay to invest in Norwegian jobs, and then I believe it will be more expensive to pollute. It is not the case that all taxes and taxes are to be reduced. The purpose is important. I think we need to facilitate a green tax change in the future. Contamination shall continue to be more expensive. There are also some charges that I am happy to be set down, including. that we are now removing the chocolate tax, and then the representative knows very well that when you are going to make a government budget, you also have to give a whole priority, and then sometimes you can get to school and maybe get in front of a reduced snuff tax. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3376	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3381	For the whole of the budget, there are, among other things: a charge for alternative treatment, as the Council of State itself mentioned in its statement. In the course of the debate, I have tried to find answers to what is the reason and reason for introducing the fee now. The representative Wang Soleim spoke about alternative treatment where there is no medical justification. At the same time, we have regulars who refer, for example, to psychotherapists. The centre party believes that it would have been reasonable to go through the Alternative Register and look at what should be inside and outside the VAT system. What you've done here is you've picked out some groups, osteopates and naprapats, and then you're going to have an assessment of acupuncture. Why not do the job of going through matters properly instead of now introducing VAT on alternative treatment from 1 January for most groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3388	We've had a public sample. We've had a public sample that's looked at the VAT system, and we think we should close the tax gap. I am a little surprised that the Center Party sees it as its reality now to erode the tax and tax system. We believe that the starting point should be to pay VAT on goods and services, and then you have to have a justification if there is to be a derogation from this, or a justification if there is to be a lower rate. However, the starting point should be that goods and services are subject to VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3393	In our decision, the bulk of the population, including the government parties, adopted a tax package for the oil industry, which means a pure subsidy to the oil companies. I said when SV broke the negotiations, that this was the most unprofessional thing I had been in here at Stortinget, and later I have shown that I was right. In the past, we have been told that the changes in the tax haven for oil involve a mere subsidy of 8 billion. kr. It is significant, but probably also incorrect, because it is only about the projects that would have been carried out anyway. For the projects carried out under this scheme, the tax changes made, the subsidies could be multiplied. And then we're talking about pretty big transfers from the community to the oil companies. But this estimate has never been submitted to Stortinget. Has the Ministry of Finance calculated the real cost of the tax treatment of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3400	You have to be fairly clear-sighted if you already make a statement after six months: I got it right. How the situation becomes for the offshore industries, how it becomes for the yard industry through the spring and next harvest, there are not so many of us who know. What has been both the government's and the majority in this hall's starting point has been that we have to maintain activity, avoid bankruptcy and lose valuable jobs along the coast and a competence we also need to enter the green shift. That's the reason for this, and I think we're going to be a little careful to draw conclusions so unambiguously about who got right, who was wrong, and what it was like, six months after the Storting drew that conclusion. I am not now sitting with the calculations that the representative is asking for, but I have a capable office that can certainly help if the representative sends me another written question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3407	Researchers Ole-Andreas Næss recently asked a timely question in today's business: «Is the corona support rigged for the rich and powerful?» His review of how much support various companies have received from the spring rescue package showed that five large companies that have barely paid taxes in recent years have received 1 billion. kr. He also showed how the big property barons, like Olav Thon and Christian Ringnes, can take Christmas holidays well aware that 2020 was also a very rewarding year, coronary apathy or not. Does Sanner think that this is fair, or does he intend to ensure that the rich and powerful, those we know have had the greatest opportunity to influence the government's policy – it has become clear this past week – also contribute to the great virtue, as everyone else in society has done in the last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3414	I believe that the researcher is wrong, and that article has also been answered by my State Secretary last Saturday in Today's Business. Of those who have received a lot of support, among other things: the hotel chains. I am a little surprised if the representative Moxnes thinks we should turn our backs on those who work in the hotel and restaurant industry. In dialogue with Stortinget, we have also maintained a very high ceiling on what individual businesses can get. The government had initially set it a little lower, but the bulk of the population have checked the roof so that the big companies could get something more. I think we have to recognise that in the support measures we have now, we have had general arrangements. It means that someone might have got too much, while others have got too little. The purpose was to get the money out quickly to secure jobs and Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3419	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3426	Water power is the backbone of the power system in Norway, and it is our most important and most flexible renewable source. It is also linked to small conflicts, compared to, for example, the wind power. One of the reasons for this is that the time for the large hydropower build-up is over. The second reason is the social contract and local acceptance, which is at the bottom of the water force. This government has consistently gone after the powerhouses to remove their revenues, but at the same time claims that they will have progress in upgrading and maintaining the build-up of water power. Everything is related to everything. As late as in the RNB this year, the Workers' Party's proposal for a change in the arrangements for the rent tax, so that normal returns were screened, but super-profit taxed, was reduced. It was a proposal that a group of industries, municipalities and 22 teams and organisations were behind. The schemes that provide the host municipalities with direct water resources have little impact on the upgrading project, but these special schemes guarantee local legitimacy. The Labour Party still believes that it would have been a better and more correct model than changing the income. There's a hurry to put in an incitement to upgrade and upgrade. Therefore, we can support a cash flow tax, but then under the clear provision that the host municipalities should not lose as a result of this change. The working party is concerned about the unexplained effect this conversion will have on the income of the power stations and how these are to be compensated. A quick look back in 2019: the Right, the Advance Party and the Left would remove the tax base on production equipment and installations, and 150 representatives from all batches demonstrated on the Lion Tray. The Workers' Party, the Center Party, SV and the Christian People's Party were some of the hearts that this tax on work and use would pass. But it was in 2019, before the Christian People's Party went to government. Win-win, said Astrup about the compensation scheme. The late leader of the finance committee, the current municipal minister, aims to provide businesses with tax relief and the host municipalities with compensation for lost revenue from the state budget. First, full compensation was promised, 730 million. NOK 500 million. kr, and in this year's draft budget, it is 300 million. kr. In addition, a proportion of municipalities based on population figures has been introduced, which means that several municipalities do not actually receive compensation for any of the income.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3441	Hydropower is one of Norway’s most important natural resources, and the aim must be to maximise renewable energy resources. 50–60 years ago, a number of large hydropower plants were built around the country. Many of these facilities are now in the process of reaching their lifetime and are in need of modernisation. That is why we now have the time window and the responsibility we have to provide framework conditions that can trigger both new investments and upgrades that will provide more renewable energy. With the changes in the electricity tax we are now getting in place from 1 January 2021, we are doing just that. The problem with today's tax model has been that socio-economical projects have not been economically viable, nor are they realized. With the new cash-flow tax model, power companies can make investments directly in the real estate interest rate tax, that is, the same year as the investment is made. By comparison, the depreciation period for such investments has been up to 67 years. The new regulation will trigger approximately 800 million. kr in liquidity for electricity companies. Several investment projects have been put in drawers around power companies in Norway, and with this tax change, the industry has clearly indicated that there will be a basis for re-viewing these projects. According to the NVE, improvements in existing power plants could result in between 5 and 6 billion. kilowatt hours, i.e. 5-6 TWh, more current. That means up to 12,000 new year's work, 12 billion. kr in increased value creation and potential for 3 billion. NOK in increased tax revenue. It will be a forward-looking measure when we know that we will electrify Norway both on land and on the pedestal. We need short and well more green renewable energy. Today is 50 pst. of the energy mix fossil. It can't be like that in the future. The hydropower is unique, it is adjustable and 100 pst. renewable. The values created fall largely into the community. The power sector generates district jobs and provides skilled jobs throughout the country. Hydropower is also the basis for new industry and for new energy solutions, such as: green hydrogen. It's very gratifying that this solution is finally in place. It is no exaggeration to say that there has been an engaged process since the Sanderud Committee made its recommendations. With the cash-flow model, we get a scheme that increases activity, more jobs, more renewable power and increased tax revenue to the community, while at the same time supporting the green shift and making the electrification of Norway possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3455	The public reactions after it became known that the Progress Party had been given a huge tax cut on border trade were that this had nothing to say – this was so little that it had zero significance. At the same time, we were criticised that the impact was so large that it would lead to increased consumption of sugary products, and that it could lead to more obesity, more overweight and more lifestyle diseases. Then I think you almost have to decide whether you think this has a zero effect, or whether it's a disaster. But when I hear that parts of the opposition say that this does not matter, I think they should tell those who have now got a job in the food industry, to those who have gone unemployed and now have a job because the border is closed and there is no border trade. Now it is the Coronapandemic that has hindered border trade, but thanks to the pandemic, we have now gained a unique insight into how border trade – which in a normal year amounts to 16 billion. kr – extinguish. In July we could read in the newspaper that Kiwi in Halden had increased sales by 75 pst. What surprised the store manager was that they now clearly saw that when people first trade in Sweden, they do everything there, including fruit, greenery and other goods. They don't go to one store in Sweden and trade anything, and they do the rest at a store in Norway. No, the baits do everything in Sweden, and Norwegian merchants lose this turnover. The progress party works purposefully to do something with the typical baits that make people cross the border and act. So that's a cut in the charge of chocolate, beer, wine and shower, precisely because these are important products for the purposes of border trade. Fees will have an impact on Norwegian employment and will be an important contribution to strengthening Norwegian jobs. But it's not just jobs along the border it's about. In August, Fatland Jären employed a whole new shift in Sandnes to satisfy the Nordics who no longer trade meat in Sweden. They've picked up 15 new employees, because a lot of what's being sold is being produced in Rogaland, which is a positive impact on agriculture in one of the most remote states. Nortura at Forus in Stavanger experiences exactly the same and according to Stavanger Aftenblad has increased the crew with 35 permanent jobs. On 5 December we read in the Evening Post that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV will replace the sugar levy with a new one. At the same time, they often talk about being opposed to temporary employment. Well, many of those who have now got a job because of closed borders have temporary jobs. Border trade leads to lost turnover, lost tax revenue and lost jobs, which I want to get to Norway. While the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV will – if they win the election – practise a policy that will make them lose their job, I will instead work for a policy that will ensure that those who now have a temporary job can keep it and get a regular job here in Norway. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3470	Then you're out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3475	The rapporteur pointed out in his statement that with the proposal for the 2021 budget, they had reduced the level of taxation by almost 30 billion. kr, and that the average family is left with NOK 14 000 more now than at that time. What they don't dare to tell is what those who earn the most and own the most have got from relief. It's 600 kroner a day – 220,000 kroner a year and sixteen times more than the average family. While taxes on wealth have been cut, taxes have been increased and new ones introduced. It hits people with weak economies the most. Right-wing policy makes the tax system a redistributive wrong path. Right-wing policy increases disparities. The working party believes that the tax system should reduce the differences. Therefore, we believe that everyone with incomes up to SEK 750,000 should have relief, while those who earn more and own more can contribute more to the common fund. We want to keep the level of fees even, not run a jojo policy. If one charge is levied, another charge or income tax shall be reduced. We'll make it cheaper to commute and to be organized, things this government has made more expensive. It's supposed to be workers' turn with us. Closed borders have shown what border trade means. The agreement with the Progress Party has provided a slightly lower tax on beer, wine and porcupine under the vignette ‘combat border trade’. We all share, I think, wanted to slow down the trade leakage. But more thorough analysis of causes and driving forces is needed. Perhaps the biggest challenge is the large difference between the level of costs in Norway and Sweden, at food prices, wage levels, etc. Also after the tax cuts, there will be attractive price differences. The signals from the Swedish side are: We adapt. The dilemma between border trade and public health is also going deep in the government parties, so we think it would be wise for the government to carry out a broader analysis of cost differences and driving forces to see if more and more measures can be taken. We are succeeding in getting a more environmentally friendly car park, but the VAT exemption and other special arrangements for electric cars are approaching the end. We believe that the VAT exemption should be gradually stepped down and started with the most expensive models. But above all, a completely new car tax system must be put in place. That is not enough to explain in the national budget. It has to be in order for people and nutrition to know what to do. A new and sustainable car tax system must be based on principles that do not require exemptions for specific car types, neither for purchase fees nor for user charges. Electric cars also wear on the roads, whirl up asphalt dust and take up space in the cities. The competitive advantages should be linked to the level of emissions. Everyone will benefit from a system of charges that can be widely agreed in politics, so both buyers and sellers know what they can deal with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3490	The inheritance of Erna Solberg and almost eight years of right-wing government is cut in the property tax of a total of 9.7 billion. kr. There is money that could have been used for increased well-being and measures to get people back to work. Instead, the money is sent straight into the pockets of the 10 pst. the richest of the population. On the other hand, ordinary workers have received increased fees year after year with the Progress Party in government and Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance – a tax bill that does not take into account whether you live below the poverty line or have billions on book. In addition, people with children in kindergarten have increased parental pay, and the right-hand government has also made it more expensive to commute to and from work. They were even pretty enough to suggest that it would be more expensive to get sick – in the middle of a pandemic. Even in times of crisis, with almost 200,000 unemployed, the Right has the ideological skyscrapers on and prioritises tax cuts for them with the greatest wealth. Several of these actively contribute to the Right election campaign with significant financial contributions. It might not be so strange when the Right gives them the multiple back in terms of reduced taxes. It is time to give the Right and the rest of the bourgeois parties relief from the government offices and replace them with an Labour Party-led government, with Jonas Gahr Støre as Prime Minister, who prioritises ordinary workers. That's what the Working Party is doing. With the Workers' Party's tax arrangements, people with normal and low incomes will pay less in taxes. Eight out of ten taxpayers will receive lower income taxes, and nine out of ten pensioners will receive lower taxes on their pensions. A person with a normal salary gets about NOK 3000 in tax reduction, and a pensioner with an average pension income gets about NOK 1800 in lower taxes. In addition, no charges are levied without a corresponding reduction in other taxes or charges being made. Companies receive the same tax as they do today. With the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, it will also be cheaper for ordinary workers to get to and from work by increasing the amount of commuting. The whole amount of NOK 8 900 in lower proportion has something to say for those who commute, for example. from Dirdal, in my own municipality, Gjesdal, and into the Stavanger centre. The many people who commute this way or similar distances have got an increased tax bill of nearly NOK 3000 just to get to work, with this government. At the same time, we double the union deduction to NOK 7 700. That way, we make it cheaper for employees to organize. With several trade-unionised forces, we are strengthening organized working life, which has also proved to be a major advantage in times of crisis. The millionaires and billionaires have had enough – now it is time for us to give priority to ordinary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3507	There has been a long history of the framework conditions for hydropower production. The hydropower is the backbone of our power system and a very valuable and environmentally friendly resource. Modern Norway was built and industrialised by being able to use rivers and waterfalls for power generation. Before the oil industry came to the country, hydropower was the largest, most important and most valuable industry in the country, in close cooperation with the powerful industry. Furthermore, hydropower is spread throughout the country and is truly a district industry, currently employing more than 20,000 people. However, many of our power plants have become more than 50 years old and need modernisation and upgrading. The industry feedback has been that the current tax system has prevented the upgrading since it has not been economically viable. The Progress Party considers that it is particularly important to speed up the modernisation and upgrading of the power plants and a significant potential, which the NVE has estimated to be around 5-6 TWh. The Progress Party has challenged the government in this situation, both when we were inside the good company, and now when we're outside. When we were inside, we were given the opportunity to set up an expert committee, but unfortunately the proposal was so poorly received that we never got the good debate on what action is going to take and that is necessary to increase power generation. In our promoted Progress Party again a Document 8 proposal which led the government in its budget proposal to present a tax proposal which means that from 2021 on, companies can spend the entire cost of new investments in the same year as the investment was made – a so-called cash flow tax. We in the Progress Party are very pleased about this. We should have liked the proposal to have also applied to the power plants that have already been upgraded, but we are going to follow the situation and developments closely. The Progress Party had a goal of increasing investments in hydropower and increasing power generation – we hope and believe that it is now in place. In recent years we have experienced increased resistance to wind power, and we are reasonably convinced that there will be less wind power in the future. Then we have to make better use of the possibilities we have. We would like to have a majority to challenge the power companies to come up with proposals to expand more hydropower in watercourses, which by gentle intervention could give us an increase in power generation. Unfortunately, we never got a majority in favour of this, so now we put our trust in the fact that power companies – with changed tax rules – are launching increased investments, which will give us an increase in power generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3520	Both the coronary crisis and the climate crisis require us to use our money wisely, we must save jobs and create jobs. I think the government and government parties should be pretty soulful because the opposition pressured them to put in place much better packages to save business through the crisis than they had sailed. They were ashamed to report quite badly. They are now too, and there is a need for much stronger measures now, as SV has suggested, to save many more businesses much wider than the government has done. So there's no reason for the government parties to think that they're the ones saving the jobs. SV also proposes major efforts to create new jobs, including: in regional policy. The budget says that if you use the investment grant, it generates 3.8 pst. several employees and 9.1 percentage points of increased value creation. The government writes that regional risk loans generate 16.2 percentage points of higher value creation and 6.2 percentage points of more employees. Yes, there the government cuts, while the Swedish government puts a concrete emphasis on what we know gives jobs. In my home country there are two major innovation environments: Norwegian Cluster of Expertise Heidner Biocluster and Norwegian Wood Cluster. They've inputted the games, and that's what I have here. A lot of what they're asking for to create the new green jobs, SV has put into their budgets, but the government and the majority here are doing, is putting billions into the oil companies, that's what everybody here is saying, we have to do less because it's going to end. We have to create the new jobs, and so does SV. They say, among other things: a State investment fund must be set up to invest in green, forward-looking industry. The Fund must stimulate initiatives that private individuals would not finance and have a different level of realisation, size and risk profile from that of Nysnø and other established schemes. This has been answered by SV. We have proposed the arrangements that we have spent money on those schemes, just to get up the jobs that we can live on in the future, because we need to get more things: we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions, we need to make money, and we need to create jobs that we can live on in the future. That's what SV's arrangement is – not the government's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3531	Now the usual workers are on their way. An average family would have had about NOK 6000 more to spend next year if the Workers' Party's alternative budget had been agreed. In addition, it would have been cheaper to commute, and one had received a double trade union deduction. We're about to go into the eighth year with the prioritisation of the bettered and large tax cuts to the richest in the country. The common man and woman, on the other hand, have got less to route with during the right-hand rule. The richest are priority with tax cuts, and the fees are increased. For example, commuting Høyanger–Førde was NOK 2600 more expensive than in 2013. We are concerned that politics should be fair and give all equal opportunities to live their good lives, as they wish. Therefore, the Labour Party prioritises that ordinary workers pay less in taxes, and then they get to pay something more with the highest wealth. Tax policy is an important tool, but it is also important to consider what is left of welfare services for the tax level that we have in Norway. The working party will spend the large amount of money on the big tasks, on children, in hospitals, on health services and on good and worthwhile care. Indeed, the tax level has been lowered since the red-green government, but it would also be too common for ordinary workers if the red-green government had continued. Also, the pensioners had started at the Workers' Party's arrangement. A pensioner with average pension income would get about $1,800 lower tax. Nine out of ten pensioners, 95 pst. actually, would get less tax. For a longer time, the Labour Party has called for both an increase in the pension for minimum pensions and a permanent change in the regulation of the pension. The tax arrangements for the Workers' Party are simple: People with normal and low incomes have to pay less in taxes. People with high incomes and wealth have to pay more in taxes. The divorce is at NOK 750,000. No charges are levied without corresponding reductions in other taxes or charges being made. The companies get the same tax as today. This just shows that the Right is the party of rich people most, and the Labour Party is too common people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3548	I think the debate is starting to go a little in for landing. In the case of the Workers' Party, which in a way has presented a tax scheme that is rather small in style with the rhetoric that has been used: I am pleased about it, but what I am not happy about is that the tax increase they are introducing is targeted directly at Norwegian company owners. I believe that this is the wrong policy. But since the Workers' Party also in this debate seems so sure that their increase in taxes on working capital only hits Norway's richest, I have asked before, and I ask again: Who in business is the Workers' Party that has spoken to when you think this is a good idea? Who in the business community along our coast, in the inlands, around that now stands in a challenging situation, is that the Workers' Party has spoken to, when they say that yes, this is a good idea, in the time we now stand in? I haven't talked to anyone in business who says that, and these are the people who are actually creating the jobs that we're going to have on the other side of this crisis. The representative Heggø was concerned with changes in hydropower taxation. I like the representative of Storehaug so much about it. There is a sense that there is a great need for upgrading and expansion in our hydroelectric power plants. The need is estimated to be up to 40 billion. NOK 2030, 75 billion. NOK in 2050. With this conversion, we're releasing, we think, for the next year 800 million. kr in capital, so that these upgrades can be started. I think that is good for Norway as a renewable nation, and it is also good for businesses and municipalities around that we have hydroelectric power plants that can now be upgraded with a new tax system, and that will last even in the decades to come. It is our opinion that this has little impact on the income of municipalities through property taxes, where there are maximum and minimum limits, and the most important thing is that we facilitate long-term investment in hydropower. A debate has been raised on a sustainable car tax system for the future, the representative of Hansen addressed it. I think that is a good debate that I am absolutely sure we will come back to, because the principles that the government has now put forward are partly difficult to implement without major system changes, and something is even contradictory. So finding a good model for the future here will be a good discussion that I look forward to having here in Stortinget. At the same time, we will achieve the objective of selling only zero-emission cars in 2025. The working party has taken on the big row and is concerned that the government is increasing the fees. Well, of the increases in taxes that have come, 6.7 billion apply. SEK of their environmental taxes. It would be interesting if the Workers' Party could come up and say what environmental taxes they are against. As far as I'm concerned, they're too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3561	I have noticed in this debate that a number of speakers from the Progress Party have gone up and cheered that one has now managed to fight down the fees again to the level at which they were at when Siv Jensen took over as Minister of Finance and the Progress Party joined the government. I understand that they are taking the opportunity to rejoice a little now, when, from summer on, they are already going to increase the fees again through a targeted increase in fees, a doubling of travel taxes, which are particularly hard hit by the crisis. In addition, there are others who are severely affected by the crisis, both in transport and culture. It is true that the Progress Party has had some impact on the reduction of taxes on some products linked to border trade. The Central Party and I sincerely believe that it is important to see what effect it will have when the borders are reopened. What's a little strange, I think, in the case that we have about it, is that the government parties and the Progress Party are not willing to participate in broader studies of the impact of tax changes on both consumption in Norway and on border trade sales and jobs. The other thing that's interesting to notice is that the Progress Party's commitment to cutting fees obviously stops there. When we propose, for example, to cut fees for things that people need in their everyday lives – milk and bread, fruit and green – it is suddenly not so important anymore. Unfortunately, once again there is a targeted increase in charges in this budget, such as a new tax on the incineration of waste in Norway, which the industry itself says will not reduce emissions, but which will aim at a shifting of jobs out of the country, so that the garbage is incinerated in Sweden instead of Norway. One may also introduce VAT on alternative treatment. Instead of a proper review of the Alternative Register, they smack from 1 January to 25 pst. VAT on a number of necessary treatments for many people in Norway, which one also receives from its permanent staff. It doesn't make sense, and it's not predictable for them either. Once again, there will be further poor conditions for the country's commuters. Many people depend on commuting far to work and even longer now when we're in a crisis. People who lose their jobs and who have to move to a job that is further away get a further tightening – an unwise policy for workers. Instead, we should have provided for more redistribution and lower charges than the majority charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3580	I would like to make a few comments on two of the issues that have been raised in the debate. One goes on hydropower, and the other goes on the property tax. It was claimed here that hydro power upgrades are gentle interventions in nature. I have to say, unfortunately, that some of the debate on hydropower taxation is marked by the fact that you might be more concerned about seeing the big protests against wind power and less concerned about seeing the real, also the negative consequences that hydropower has and could have. Cash flow taxation is a powerful boost for investments in hydropower. That is what SV believes is right when it comes to upgrading, but it will also boost the expansion of existing hydropower plants with quite negative consequences for nature. I think the Storting should be aware of that in the future, when the protests and the negative natural consequences of those investments will be better illuminated. Then I have to say that the debate on the taxes on wealth in this room is sometimes quite incredible, because you have layers of clear technical evidence that the property tax is not a harmful tax for the Norwegian economy. You have layers with professional evidence that it is wise to have a property tax. Nevertheless, from the right-hand side, we are always examples – from different people with assets – of wanting to cut taxes on wealth, and it is such a clear symbol that the differences in wealth have now become differences in power, and who can express the political change of word and policy. The Empire, the research, shows us that it is good to have wealth and own businesses in Norway, really well, that the wealth tax is a tax on wealth and not on businesses, that wealth in Norway is not very high taxed if one compares with other countries, that there is no professional evidence that the wealth tax is harmful, rather on the contrary, and that it is the most solid corporations that pay taxes on wealth. The right-hand side's attempt to prove it has fallen every time on stone ground. So it's nothing but anecdotal evidence that the right hand side comes with because they've talked to people who want to pay less property taxes. I can understand that, there are many who will pay less tax here in the country, but also the Right must relate to the best available knowledge, to research and empirical, and so they do not find any professional evidence of what is claimed in this debate and in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3591	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 2-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3605	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3617	A total of 41 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ove Trellevik on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposed no. 2–16, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 17, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Labour Party proposed no. 18-26, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 27–40, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 41, from the Bears of the Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 41, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that State buildings do not use subcontracting in labour disputes, including companies using defrosting as an instrument against trustees, and that suppliers respect specific denunciation protection.’ The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3655	Proposal No. 28–31, 33–35 and 39 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to await the continuation of a new government quarter until a proposal for a decision has been submitted to the Stortinget with a comprehensive, complete and cost-calculated plan for a new government quarter, where alternative solutions have also been cost-calculated and assessed on the basis of the safety and time horizon for completion’.» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate how employers can be required to ensure that employees are employed immigrants training Norwegian.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose amendments to the law in order to grant temporary work permits to unrecoverable asylum seekers as long as they cannot be returned.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to legislate for all children on reception of asylum.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the local government to propose and finance several low-threshold trials in the psychiatry and drug field in the municipal sector in 2022.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government asks that tenders for county ferry and boat services shall be based on zero-emission technology and that the income system of the counties hereinafter ensures the financing of the necessary conversion to zero-emission solutions in all public transport.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish the necessary requirements for competence in the local government sector in the areas of environment, biodiversity and climate.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the funding mechanism for resource-intensive services to citizens over 67 years of age.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3710	Proposal No. 27, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work with a view to establishing the state operation of cloud services for public enterprises’.» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3727	Proposal No. 32 and 36-38, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for amended housing support legislation to ensure that new workers are also receiving housing support at the level of the former, so that housing support as a housing social instrument is strongly strengthened.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is requesting reporting on the situation of municipalities and county councils with increased expenditure and tax revenue lost during March 2021.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the scheme of urban and urban development grants in order to make them a mark-up to the municipalities that qualify for the grant without deductions in the framework of all municipalities.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for different models to increase its share of co-financing of the scheme of particularly resource-intensive services.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3762	President! The Central Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3767	The vote will be taken at the next voting time – and the Central Party will therefore have every support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3779	Proposal No. 40, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government not to compensate the municipality of Bø and, where appropriate, other municipalities, either through the income system or by any other means, for the loss of income associated with local municipal decisions to reduce the taxes on wealth.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3796	Proposal No. 18–25, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that the cost framework for construction step 1 of the new government quarter is not approved, but that the work may continue to a reduced extent until the size is presented with an adjusted cost framework for RNB 2021, where alternative solutions are cost-calculated.’; Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the Government to promptly investigate and come back to Stortinget with alternatives to downsizing the project with new government quarter, at all stages of construction, and additional projects. Particular attention shall be paid to how to reduce costs, such as the re-use of current ministerial buildings and the modification of related projects.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the start of the qualification process can be completed within the introduction programme and that the legislation is adapted to ensure the necessary flexibility in terms of length.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals for legislative changes so that Norwegian citizens are not automatically registered for emigration in the People’s Register after two years.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a temporary stop in the closure of asylum recipients until the pandemic is under control.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The government is asked to establish a State interest compensation scheme for necessary investments in infrastructure in the municipal sector as a result of extreme weather.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The size calls on the Government of the 2022 Municipal Proposition to submit proposals for stronger income equalisation in the municipal sector.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to investigate and propose a step 2 of the Top Finance Facility with a maximum per capita and return to the Stortinget in the context of the 2022 Municipal Proposition.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3851	Proposal No. 26, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an e-election solution for the blind and partially sighted in the polls in future elections.’ The Labour Party, the Greens and Reds have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3868	Proposal No. 17, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that only non-governmental organisations registered in the Brønn Island Health Registers with an organisation number should be eligible for State aid. Item No 71 of the Explanatory Notes to Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3888	President! The centre party has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3893	The centre party has already given its support to proposal No. 17, so we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3905	Proposal No. 16, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative proposals to ensure that municipalities have the necessary legal basis for zero-emission zones/environmental zones for climate reasons, e.g.. zone where only zero-emission vehicles are allowed.’;» The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e3922	Proposal No. 2–15, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose its own grant schemes in the Husbank in order to adapt private housing to the needs of an ageing population.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a private rental market supervisory body and for the implementation of regulatory measures that can improve stability and long-term rental conditions for tenants.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting for a strengthening of the house rental law as a consumer law, including, inter alia, temporary leases as a general rule, with fewer possibilities for the lessor to derogate from it.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the municipalities which are given greater public collective development commit themselves to a stronger coordination of housing, land use and the development of the transport system.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the possibility of setting environmental classification requirements for rentals in commercial property.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the state can contribute to the development of sustainable maintenance plans adapted to housing conditions, such as support schemes for the rehabilitation of residential areas with better energy solutions.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the Planning and Building Act so that the Planning Authority can demand that there be a share of reasonable and social housing in all new projects to be built.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assess changes in the role of the House Bank in relation to climate-friendly construction and interaction with Enova.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to clarify targets for greenhouse gas reduction in urban growth agreements with the municipalities and to ensure that the agreements can cover commercial transport.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for stricter requirements in public procurement processes to ensure that the target of 100 pst. zero-emission vehicles for new light goods vehicles and heavy goods vehicles shall be reached by 2030.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for clearer requirements that weigh the environment heavier in tendering processes in order to ensure improved logistics and increased efficiency of machinery in construction sites by reducing the use of diesel in plant machinery.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to clarify the legislation and possibilities of the municipality to demand emission-free construction sites in non-municipal development.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for legislative proposals that allow municipalities and county councils to impose stricter requirements on public tender procedures and to provide stricter leads contributing to faster phase-out of mineral oil and gas for building heating.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit legislative proposals to ensure the necessary authority for the municipalities to adopt provisions on environmental quality in the area area of the municipal plan that can be used to limit CO 2 emissions from traffic.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e4011	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government of the 2022 municipality bill proposes a revised and more accurate methodology for calculating grants to the smallest municipalities with the highest need for resource-intensive services.’ The centre party has already given its support to the proposal. The Greens have already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e4023	President! SV has also announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e4028	Left too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e4033	Then it is only Red that does not have the support of the proposal, if I think correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e4039	That's wrong. The Labour Party shall not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e4044	The proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party will be contested. The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Left have already supported the proposal. The Greens have already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8355	Behind this is the Government Party and the Advance Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8458	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8477	A total of 33 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Environment Party Dei Green and Red proposed no. 2-4, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposal No 5, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Labour Party and Red proposal No 6, by Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, by Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and the Environment Party Dei Green proposal No 18 from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposed no. 8–17, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposed no. 19-23, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 24, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposed no. 26 and 27, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 25, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Environmental Party Dei Green and Red proposed no. 28 and 29, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Green Party proposed no. 30–33, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 30-33, from Red. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the tax deduction for dividends on shares and returns to the Stortinget with the necessary proposals in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a temporary special tax of 3 percentage points on the profits of companies renting commercial property, following the model of the special tax on the profits of financial corporations, and to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal for such a special tax.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government requests the imposition of a temporary additional tax on dividends from companies that have received state emergency aid during the coronary pandemic and return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal for such a tax.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to require the lessor to grant 10-30 pst. reduction in rentals for the purpose of receiving payments from enterprises receiving aid under the large-trade enterprises’ premium scheme after August 2020.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8552	Proposal No. 28 and 29, from the Green Environment Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a production tax to be paid by the government which gives both farmers and municipalities incentives for the use of zero-emission technology by charging a high tax on open installations to the State, while closed installations pay a lower charge to the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government requests the removal of the 30-day limit in order to be able to exempt the leasing and rental of electric cars and the placing on the market of electric car batteries from VAT and return to Stortinget with proposals in the revised national budget for 2021.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8576	Proposal No. 27, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government in the context of the State budget for 2021 to present a proposal for a progressive inheritance tax with a base deduction of 5 million. krona and at the lowest rate of 10 pst., with gradual escalation to 50 pst. taxes on inheritance over 100 million. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8591	Proposal No. 26, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks it to propose cuts in the tax costs for the gain on the sale of owner-occupied dwellings and leisure property and the rental of owner-occupied dwellings in the context of the State budget for 2022.’» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8609	Proposal No. 25, from the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish models that enable permanent means of operating such as machinery, equipment, etc. to be distinguished. on the balance sheet total in determining the property value of unlisted AS.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8624	Proposal No. 24, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for and how the air passenger charge can be differentiated for flights on the short-haul network and between North Norway and South Norway, and come back to this in connection with the State budget for 2022. The delimitation may be on the aeroplane’s weight, by geography, the duration of travel by means of alternative public transport, or other criteria ensuring the protection of the short-haul network and flights between North Norway and South Norway.’ The Labour Party has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8641	Proposal No. 19–23, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to defer the imposition of a levy on waste incineration until it is ensured that it does not result in emissions being exported and the activities that will be affected by the levy have been identified and the effects of the charge on the installations concerned.’;» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to clarify with ESA whether new acquired machinery and other means of operating in balancing group d increased initial write-off by 10 pst, and to return to Stortinget with a proposal to that effect as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to pay a levy on nitrogen in mineral fertilisers to praise the emission of natural gas, and to return to the Stortinget with proposals in the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the reintroduction of the boat engine fee with the exemption for electric motor and battery, and to return to Stortinget with proposals for reintroduction into the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to pay a turnover tax on Oslo Stock Exchange or other forms of taxing financial transactions and to return to the Stortinget with this ifm. with the State budget for 2022.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8681	Proposal No. Eighteen, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the extent of adaptations to the shareholder model and the exemption method and to return to the Storting during 2021 with a proposal to counteract unintended adjustments.’ Red is in favour of the proposal. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have already subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8700	Proposal No. 9, 11, 12, 14 and 15, of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an estimate of VAT on the residual value of cars sold in the second-hand market, which has previously led all VAT to deductions in the VAT accounts, in order to improve the competitiveness of the electric car in the lease, and to make a proposal on this ifb. with the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a one-off charge on heavy goods vehicles during 2021 and to come back with a proposal in the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to revise the document fee to ensure that the reuse of parts of existing buildings is favoured in the charging system and to return to the Stortinget with a proposal for a change in the state budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for untapped taxes or other instruments to reduce methane and NMVOC emissions and other petroleum emissions and to return to the Storting with proposals in the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to pay a levy on the use of peat during 2021 and to return to the Stortinget with proposals in the State budget for 2022.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8737	Proposal No. 8, 10, 13, 16 and 17, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the VAT system can be modified to ensure that the tax advantage of the electric car compared to fossil cars in the case of purchases is replicated for the leasing of cars and come back to Stortinget with proposals in the revised national budget for 2021.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of tax exemptions on zero-emission goods and trucks during 2021 and comes back with proposals in the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for untapped instruments to increase the recycling of textiles, such as mortgages or the price of textiles, and to return to the Stortinget with proposals for instruments in the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to pay a material tax on the withdrawal of virgin natural resources and to return to the Stortinget with proposals in the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for different tax models for fossil plastics and plastic packaging and to return to the Stortinget with proposals in the State budget for 2022.’ The Labour Party has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8778	Proposal No. 7, from the Center Party and the Environment Party Dei Green. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests an evaluation of the impact of the proposed tax on waste incineration in the context of the submission of the State budget for 2022. The evaluation shall include the climate impact of the levy and whether it supports conversion to a more circular economy, as well as the impact on jobs and value creation.» The Labour Party and the Red Party have already given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8797	Proposal No. 6, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking in dialogue with the beverage industry to design a material tax that premises the use of renewable and recycled materials to replace the current packaging charge and to come back with proposals at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2022. Competitiveness of products currently exempt from the levy must not be reduced.» The Labour Party and the Red Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8814	Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked by the government, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2021, to submit a proposal for improvements to the levy on combustion plants in order to enhance the climate impact. This may, for example: are a material charge or an export charge, as in the Netherlands.’;» The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8831	Proposal No. 2-4, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to remove additional taxes on wages and salaries in the financial sector and, at the same time, increase the tax on profits from financial institutions accordingly in order to cover the proceeds’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a public health charge or other instruments that provide incentives to reduce sugar content in products and that do not create any undue distortions of competition or at the expense of turnover in Norway and the Norwegian industry.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the volume of adaptations to the shareholder model and the exemption method and to return to the Storting during 2021 with a proposal to eliminate unintended adjustments. The investigation must also consider alternatives to the exemption method.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e8858	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that the free-card provisions contained in national collective agreements for employees and pensioners in public transport remain tax-free. The same applies to staff tickets for staff and pensioners in the railway sector.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e16348	Behind this is the Government Party and the Advance Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e16369	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Eigil Knutsen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposal No 3, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 4, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environment Party proposed no. 5 and 6, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party To reduce the number of votes, the President will propose an agreed voting order. The main positions of the various batches are clearly highlighted in the comments in the Input option, and shown to Input. 2 S for 2020-2021 and Innst. 3 S for 2020-2021. In practice, this means that when we have voted on minority proposals, none of the parties will vote against the recommendation in the option. The President will point out that it is of course stipulated that when the parties accept such a voting policy, this should not be used against a game at a later date. No objections have been raised to this proposal. - It's a note. Proposal No. 5 and 6 from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a cash flow tax for hydropower limited to upgrading existing hydropower plants in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘I In Law 6 June 1975 No. 29 on taxes on ownership of municipalities are amended as follows: Paragraph 3(c) is replaced by the following: Only for works and use in the whole municipality; or Paragraph 3(d) is replaced by the following: Only for works and use and other commercial property in the municipality as a whole; or Paragraph 3(g) is replaced by the following: Fixed property in the whole municipality, excluding work and use and other commercial property. Paragraph 4, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: For fixed properties, buildings and plots such as Right, houseless plots such as gardens, hatches, waterfalls, loading, storage, or work plots, docks and the like, as well as works and use and other commercial property are considered. For work and use, including: invoiced factories, sawmills, mills, shipyards, industrial works, as well as mines, quarries, fish-works, salthouses, bilges, extended waterfalls and waterfalls, dams, landfills and similar workplaces. Buildings and structures shall be taken into account with the work or use when they are Right to or needed for the works. On the other hand, work machines and their belongings and things that can be classed as such should not be counted without the thing being a part of the enterprise itself. Other commercial properties include offices, car parks, shops, warehouses, hotels, restaurants, etc. Paragraph 4, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: Liquid marine facilities for fish, shellfish, shellfish and other marine species are matched by works and uses in other members, when the facility has been stationed in the municipality for more than 6 months in the year preceding the tax year. Property tax is then printed even if the installation was not stationed in the municipality on 1 January of the tax year. Paragraph 8 A-2, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: The value of the property shall be set at the amount to be assumed from the fact that the property can be disposed of under normal conditions of sale under the free-sale conditions according to its arrangements, use characteristics and location. Paragraph 8 A-2, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: For the taxiing of factories and other industrial installations, one shall include machinery and others as Right of the installation and is necessary to fulfil the purpose of the installation. Accessories and the like, other than an integral part of the system, shall not be included. Paragraph 12(e) is replaced by the following: e) Works and use in non-urban areas, cf. Paragraph 4, second paragraph, second and third sentences. Finally, the transitional rule to Law No 19 December 2017 No is repealed. 118 on phase-out phase-out. II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the tax year 2022.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e16457	Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the maximum property tax rate for housing and recreational housing to 7 per mill.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e16472	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for unsubstantiated changes in the VAT law to ensure that health professionals must include VAT if they carry out alternative treatment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e16487	Proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to renegotiate tax agreements concluded with a view to introducing withholding taxes on royalties and interest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e16503	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking whether any of the members of the organisations currently registered in the Alternative Treatment Register can be considered to provide health care and come back to the Storting with the necessary changes to allow them to obtain exemption from the VAT Code.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e17588	It's going to go above the heading of the laws and laws at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e17598	Law decisions will be passed until second processing is carried out in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e17610	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Sigbjørn Gülsvik on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposed no. 3-5, by the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 3-5, from Red. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission of a proposal for a levy on non-alcoholic beverages which is more differentiated according to the sugar content of the product, including an assessment to exempt sugar-free drinks entirely from the levy, and to come back with proposals for such a model in the revised national budget for 2021.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an unbiased differentiation of different taxes such as VAT, taking into account the impact on Norwegian jobs and on the climatic and health impact of the product, and proposing the introduction of such differentiated taxes in the context of the revised national budget for 2021.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests proposals to reduce or eliminate the VAT on Norwegian-produced food, including Norwegian-produced fruit and vegetables, in the context of the revised national budget for 2021.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e17661	Alternatively, between the recommendation and the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a survey on the physical cross-border trade of the Nordics is conducted on a regular basis, and at least annually, according to a model similar to that of the SSB’s pilot study.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a review of the impact of current taxes and border trade on Norwegian jobs and a strategy to maintain employment in the Norwegian food industry and trade in goods.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e17685	President! I had to vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e17690	The result is that 46 votes for the recommendation and 41 votes for the proposal – and the recommendation is attached.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-15.ana.ud272e17742	Thus, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
