ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e28	The representative of Mr Åsunn Lyngedal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e33	On behalf of Lene Vågslid, Martin Henriksen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to quickly build the vocational school for fire and preparedness in the municipality of Tjeldsund.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e38	The representative, Roy Steffensen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e43	On behalf of Jon Georg Dale, Bård Hoksrud, Morten Stordalen, Tor André Johnsen, Helge André Njåstad, Terje Halleland and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to ensure the progress of the project E39 Rogfast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e48	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e53	On behalf of the representatives Petter Eide, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I would like to make a proposal to limit the government's powers in the IPR.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e58	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e74	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e83	Let me first say that it is good to see the Prime Minister back in the Question Time. The last time was March 11th, the day before Norway shut down. At the time it was about controlling the infection, about planes like the country on Torp with passengers from northern Italy, and about individual municipalities that started taking children out of schools and kindergartens. It's been two months to get into history. What that story will look like, we have to wait to sum up, but I will recognise the Prime Minister's clear leadership from March 12th and beyond, the Storting's ability to take comprehensive decisions and also improve packages, make them fairer in treatment here, and not least, the Norwegian people's ability and willingness to follow the Public Health Council, some of them very interventional. Then I think mostly of those who experienced losing their jobs, and of our children and young people who have not received their normal offers that they are entitled to. The main challenge now is to prevent reinfection – we have to live with this for maybe up to two years – and, on the other hand, to get the wheels going. Here too, the challenge is two-fold: how we get people back to work, and how we prevent those who are at work from losing it. Nothing is more important. 390000 have been notified outside the labour market, as job-seekers and permits. The main task of politics, in Stortinget and in counties and municipalities, is to get people back to work. But is that the government's priority? The question arises when we see the arrangements in the revised budget, summarised by the Minister of Labour yesterday said early: «The return of very many people to work very quickly now has little to do with it. We also need more time to think about what to do in the longer term, because we know little about how the labour market and the Norwegian economy will be in the harvest." Yeah, we don't know much about it, but we don't have much time. Getting very many back to work has little to do with it – would the Prime Minister use just those words?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e97	Let me start by saying thank you for your cooperation with Stortinget. I would like to say that I believe we have had good cooperation through the period we have left behind on many major economic packages, many important issues for Norway, which are going to make us better rusted out of this crisis. It is true that there is reason to thank the Norwegian people and to thank all the people around the Norwegian community who have been on an exceptional level, ranging from bureaucrats in the departments who have worked hard to get things done to those who have been in the first-line health services. So the question about the statement from Torbjørn Røe Isaksen yesterday. It's an opinion that I think has a content of meaning that hasn't come out as well in what's said. The challenge is that there are still many places where we can't send people back to work for the purpose of infectious diseases, and that's still so that there are some measures you can't take to motivate people to go to work, because it's lower activity for the purpose of infectious diseases. It is not that we do not want everyone at work – everyone who can work should work, wherever there are tasks, it should be worked. But we can't now artificially try to stimulate people back to work where the rules of infection set limits on what you can do. Then we have said that it comes in two blocks of change now, the one in the revised national budget, which we presented yesterday, which is a lot about making sure that we finance many of the challenges we have seen, the public sector and individual areas, and then cancel out many orders that the Storting has had. In addition, we come back to the big package to get more people back. How we stimulate the economy, what we're going to get out of the crisis – it's coming in the month-end of May/June. This is something I had three weeks ago – it feels like three months, but it is only three weeks ago – the parliamentary leaders of the Stortinget briefed on the need, because we do not have a good enough basis for selecting instruments now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e106	After all, there were no infectious measures at the root of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen's statement. It was an analysis – he says we need more time to think about what to do in the longer term. Many quote Keynes, he said in the longer term we're all dead. So we're going to do something in the short and medium term. We know little about how the labour market in the Norwegian economy will be in the harvest – that’s right, but we have 390,000 outside, and many who are in danger of falling outside. Some of the municipalities are very exposed. "The return to work is very small now." If there was a mistake, you could go back on it, but the revised budget shows in many ways that Red Isaac has his words. Because there are no measures in the revised budget aimed at getting people to work: action places, pilot schemes to combine – in addition to 1 September – training and daily allowances, or to use wage subsidies to get people back into company internal training. What is the Prime Minister's view in this revised budget that could be a handshake to the 390,000 and perhaps more who are out of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e111	It's quite right that Keynes said this as a comment on the general theory of equivalency, that it will be equivalised in the economy over time of supply and demand. It's never been this government's policy. We have a policy to actively contribute to the development of Norwegian society, where the state and authorities have an important role to play. Many of the measures that the representative Jonas Gahr is now asking for are, of course, the measures we are working on, and we have asked the Holden Committee, which has now been working to analyse whether the costs associated with the measures before, now provide us with a basis for returning to the Stortinget. That's also why I came to Stortinget and asked if we should postpone the revised national budget, in order to have a better basis. So I have to say that I think it is a little unreasonable after that round to be asked for measures that would be announced at the time of the month change in May/June. With regard to the issue of salary subsidies, there is something we are open to discuss, but I have not yet heard about a model or a system for what can be implemented overnight. That's why you have to work on it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e118	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e123	This shows the need for revision as revised — it is a mid-year revision of the budget. Then there is a wide range of measures in this budget that affect people related to being inside or outside work. Phase 3 has been presented by the government as a proposal for counter-cyclical measures, to initiate new activity. We're going to treat it with great commitment to the Storting. Maybe there's a package we also have to do better than what comes from the government, to be focused. These are projects that will come in the course of the autumn, in the new year, in the longer term. And then we're back to Røe Isaksen, who says we know little about the labour market and the Norwegian economy and how it's going to be in the harvest. I'm worried that it's passivity considering those who're out of work. The revised budget provides Nav with appropriations to be able to operate Nav, but there are no attempts at action places. Compensation payments could be tested in the context of training, continuing training related to the labour market. So I want to emphasize again, there's going to be a gap between what's in the RNB and the Phase 3 package. What in the revised budget does the Prime Minister really think helps to give hope to those who are now out of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e136	We now get a discussion that was what I predicted that we would get if we delivered a revised one before we had a good basis to make exactly the assessments that were made. This was openly informed in Stortinget to the parliamentary leaders. It is not that there are only counter-cyclical measures that come in phase 3, that is the way out of the coronary crisis, there are measures that are concerned with filling skills. These are issues we are considering, and also measures such as: wages and salaries subsidies. But it is not that we can today say that a wage subsidy is easy to implement. For whom should we choose to do that? Other countries have wage subsidies, but they don't have our permitting rules, so they use it as a way of ensuring people that they're at work and getting a grant. The biggest salary subsidy we actually pay is given to all Norwegian companies in May and June, by reducing the employer's fee by 4 pst. It can be seen as a purely cash benefit to all those who have employees in these two months. In addition, this is given to those who had employees last year, simply because employers’ fees are also calculated on holiday pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e145	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e150	Let me shift the focus. We're going to treat phase 3 with great seriousness. The unemployed pay a high price. It also does our first line defense in the municipalities. There have been employees on it. They've made sure that people get into the nursing homes, they've provided home school for our students, they've been running clean, and all of Norway's clapping. But now history can be that many of these that we call the heroes, are the next ones that will notice the economic scarcity. Our rapporteur in Rälingen, whom I met on 1 May in front of a nursing home, where we spoke to the employees and to the residents, clearly said that those we now applaud can end up paying the bill for the coronary crisis. The municipality after the municipality tells them that what they were told about, namely compensation for the measures against the infection, it will not come. Many of them have received half of what they have paid out – a few less. These, say the prime minister, get a little calm down. I don't think there's any reason to calm down when you don't follow up on vulnerable children, when you don't get ready for more infection, when you don't get to start new measures that can give you work. Does the Prime Minister think that the municipalities are fully compensated for what they have set up with?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e164	I believe that the municipalities need to calm down a little on welfare protection now, because we have agreed, quite broadly politically in Stortinget, that the municipal sector should be compensated. Then we have a discussion about how that compensation is, and how big it is. We have a sample with KS going through this. Based on the estimates contained in the revised national budget on the development of the municipal deflator, i.e. the rise in prices and wages in the municipal sector, it becomes 1.4pst. insteadfor 3.5 pst. So that means 2.1 pst. increase in the municipal space of action in relation to what we included in the budget. It's formidable money for all the municipalities. It doesn't have any of the people who do the maths today added to their calculations. This means, for example: 1 billion. kr for the Municipality of Oslo. That means 10 million. kr for Sel kommune, who was on TV yesterday. There's a lot of money that contributes. We have to look at the totality of the municipal economy. But I don't think any municipalities should cut welfare offers now, when they hear a clear message that we are actually going to make sure that the level we said should be within the budget of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e173	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e178	Then it's okay to get a confirmation here, and my question now is pretty short. I heard yesterday that many municipalities said that it really is not an amount they need to hear, they need an assurance that they will be compensated during 2020 for the expenses they have. If they know this, they can plan — well-being, important measures and important measures to prevent infection. Can the Prime Minister here confirm that this is the government's intention? The sample she has set up will work far beyond the New Year in 2021, and now we are living in 2020. It's not a long term, but at least it's such a long term that it doesn't help very much in the planning of the budgets now. Can the Prime Minister confirm that, on the part of the government, compensation is provided for the costs incurred by municipalities in connection with the Korona?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e185	I can guarantee that we will maintain the level of income, because a large part of this uncertainty comes from tax failure. The level of revenue and the economy to which it was committed for the current year are to be maintained during this year. We have said that we should cover the necessary measures, but it is not a blank mandate to cover everything called coronary action in the municipalities. Then we will come back to how we can cover in a fine mask enough, because there are big differences: some municipalities get a lot. Therefore, the discretionary grant was one of the measures we used early in this phase. There were some municipalities, such as Frostand and Sel, that had large expenses at an early stage. It is also important to say that we have discussions about whether we are well compensated, because we have compensated the municipal sector as a whole and not necessarily clearly to compensate each municipality. This isn't a blank authorization to do everything you want to do this year, but we're going to cover the necessary expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e194	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e199	I want to follow up with one more question about infection. The finance minister said yesterday that we could have the infection here for one to two years, some might think three years. The municipalities are still the first line defense. As I read the budget, the costs of infectious diseases are covered for three months. It is a little unclear when the starting date for it is, but I interpret it so that it is three months from 12 March, when the measures were implemented. So it will apply until 12 June. But this is a situation that can last for both one and two years. After 12 June, desks will still have to be washed and equipment purchased. Many municipalities continue to report concerns about the stocks of their infectious equipment. So the question is pretty simple: Can the Prime Minister assure us that the municipalities have the economy and the equipment needed to protect us if there is going to be a new wave of infection?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e206	Yes, we're going to compensate the municipal sector for the necessary costs that come from the coronary crisis and infection prevention measures. I just answered that. Right between 12 June and 18 August, there is little need to wash desks in Norwegian schools, since it's a school vacation, but we're going to make sure that we have that framework for the local economy. But, as I said, there is no blank authority for every thing municipalities do. Priorities must be set in the municipalities, as must be done in the state. Our main challenge now is all those in the private sector who are out of work. We need to focus on that. We need action spaces, economics and measures that can help many of these to get into work in the future. But we have to make sure that the municipal sector is covered by the expenditure necessary to deal with this crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e213	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e218	There is an impression that money is being spent in addition to private enterprises, but the truth is that so far the arrangements that have been adopted have been used to a small extent. Both the State Bond Fund and the Loan Guarantee Facility report that access to money is difficult for many. From the compensation scheme, which is set at 50 billion. NOK another, it has been paid so far, the last time I saw, less than 1 billion. kr. So there is no doubt about the need. Every day, everyone in this room receives desperate e-mails from people who are afraid that life's work will be lost, and from business owners who are simply in a very difficult situation. The seasonal companies now know that we are waiting very impatiently for an explanation of what the government is putting up with, but my question is simply: does this not mean that there is something wrong with the scheme when the need is there, but the money is so much still not going to be paid out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e223	There may be different reasons why there won't be such a large payout. For example, from the cash support scheme, it is initially 14 days in the month of March for which it was actually paid. But applications are made further out. This means that there are quite a number of large and medium-sized enterprises that have not applied for under that scheme, so the large amounts may not have been paid yet because they have had a spine and may want to look at how the scheme develops and what to do. It's very important not to make up the final sum of what this is going to cost us. And it's very good if many companies have equity and backbone not to borrow through the crisis, but actually manage through the crisis without using those arrangements. There are some arrangements in which changes have been made. On Friday it became, among other things, changes to the bond lending scheme by slightly reducing the rating, as some have lost their rating due to the crisis itself. We will constantly adjust these measures to make the best possible use of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e230	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e236	It is also the case that the oil industry and the oil industry are in crisis. It is undoubtedly Norway’s main industry. There are 225 000 jobs, either directly or indirectly, in that industry. The feedback from an overall industry – not just the oil companies, but the entire supply industry – is that the measures proposed by the government far from responding to the needs of the industry. Nor will it trigger investments that will employ tens of thousands of people. The father is simply that a lot of businesses are going to end and that a lot of people can lose their jobs. In the shipyards both in Verdal and in Stord they are now breathing for what Stortingen will decide in that case. My question is simply: does it not make sense when the Prime Minister receives feedback from a single industry that the proposals made by the government are not sufficient, and that this can simply lead to thousands of people losing their jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e241	It has made an impression on us, the challenge facing the oil and gas industry and the supplier industry. This is precisely why we have promoted changes in the core of what has been the challenge of liquidity in the past, by spending investment expenditures not over six years but over one year. It was the main wish of the industry. At the same time, we have said that part of the compensation received by the industry in the past for drawing out these expenditures over six years, where the industry has previously argued that it has a cost in present value, and therefore they have had a free income – has been the basis for reducing that income somewhat. Of course, it's up to discussion how much you want to go beyond what's kind of a neutral system, and follow what were the arguments before. That's what we get when we discuss it in Stortinget. But it's important to remember that one of the things we get complaints about is that we've done this in the short-term Korona perspective. If we're going to do this as a system that lasts far, far beyond future investments, yes, then we've changed the oil tax system too well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e248	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e253	I'm going back to the municipalities, because the municipalities and the employees in the municipalities have made a formidable effort through this period. They have done the government's job of protecting our elderly, in terms of infectious diseases, in reopening kindergartens and schools. It doesn't help much to say that the municipalities should calm down, because the uncertainty in the municipalities is a fact. They're uncertain, they see they've had high costs, they see that the tax revenue is going to fail. The result of such uncertainty may be that they tighten up, and at a time of high unemployment it would be very unfortunate. Why won't the government instead use the municipalities as an engine to get more people to work? Why won't they use the municipalities to implement the maintenance project, investments and infrastructure and get the wheels back on track? It could have been used by the municipalities, but it is clear that resources are needed to make it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e258	I fully agree that it would be wrong to implement welfare protection today based on uncertainty. That is why we have said that the municipalities should be compensated for the loss of income. But the income base for the year is going to be maintained at the bottom. This is also the case in the revised national budget and in the municipalproposition. Then we have said that we should compensate for the necessary infectious diseases and related expenditure. I am concerned that there is no basis for Norwegian municipalities to start well-being, but we are all living under uncertainty in all of these areas. When it comes to the question of maintenance tasks and other things, it's a typical phase 3-bit that we come back to. Then it'll be in earmarked money used for exactly that, as we've done in other crises. What we're doing now is, of course, we're looking at what development is like. related to the whole construction industry and to the construction industry, to see if it is one of the important instruments to initiate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e265	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e270	The closure of the corona-restricted society has had many tragic outcomes. Many have been left to themselves, and sorely sought help has been missed. TV2 told about Geir in 77 years, who is both deaf and blind and dependent on interpreters to communicate and do all the everyday necessary things. He was sitting for days without any information as to why no one came to help. It should have been texted, and information has been posted on Nav's website, but it helps very little for a man who is both deaf and blind. Monica at 49 years of age depends on the assistant to go to the bathroom, dress up and on, get up in the morning and get some food. The assistants were missing. The family had to take over the job, and again it went beyond their jobs. The answer from the municipality was that the family could get care assistance, but then it would go beyond the decision on user-controlled personal assistant. In the VG yesterday we could read about an older couple who both died of corona. The man was admitted, the wife was left to herself without supervision despite the fact that she had symptoms. Nobody checked her state of health in this phase. In other words, we hear many heartbreaking stories about totally unworthy conditions for people who are in a very vulnerable situation. Then it is natural for me to ask the Prime Minister the following question: What does the Prime Minister and the government now do to quickly follow up other people who need help in a situation where our society is still not fully open?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e285	I think this is the experience we have to learn from, because it shouldn't be like that. The main routine for home coronary disease is that the caller calls every day. A lot of people can probably confirm that their permanent staff have been in contact with them to find out what the development is like. It is an important tool for the follow-up of those who are at home, especially those who are at home alone, that they are able to report what they need, if they may get worse, and that they can then be forwarded on. So to the question of missing assistants and other arrangements. These are examples that we just have to go through and ask why you get that answer. Clearly, in a situation we now have, practical solutions need to be found without creating major changes in the measures. That's the way, and I said that when we started the measures, that it's going to be done wrong. It's doing the wrong thing. I'm sure we've made decisions that haven't been right in retrospect. Afternoon is an interesting exercise in these days. But this is also how it will be done wrong in all parts around because in a stressful situation you ignore something. What needs to be done is to have better quality assurance of how to do the individual measures. That will be among the things we will learn from in the future: how do we guarantee quality, not least for the most vulnerable groups? Disabled persons, especially those with hearing and speech impairment, have a particular challenge in communication in these days. That's also one of the reasons why we're now, for example, has a widespread use of sign language on television. But of course it doesn't help someone who's deaf and blind at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e296	I fully agree with the Prime Minister that after-school is an interesting exercise, and this was no attempt at that either. I agree that this needs to be evaluated, but my question was not. My question concerns a situation where there are still a lot of vulnerable people out there who need help to master their everyday life, to do as natural things for most of us as going to the bathroom, which can be in a situation where they still don't get the help they need, because for the sake of infection you haven't got all the people back to work. What I'm asking is, what does the government do now to make sure that the municipalities, which are essentially responsible for these services, ensure that the help comes to all those who need it in their everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e301	The County Council is the intermediate point of work with much of the follow-up of the vulnerable. There are weekly reviews between the Health Directorate, the county councillors – and therefore also the municipalities – of the follow-up to both infectious and relief measures, and, of course, there is a need to take good care of people and to provide help. It is clear that it is not so easy to get an assistant overnight, and then it may be that the family has to set up because you don't necessarily have another one that can come, but that it should have some consequence for what kind of assistance you get in the future should be completely unnecessary. And we're going to make sure that this is flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e306	There will be follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e312	I'm very happy about that, but let me go a little further. In the cold water of this pandemic we have also had a rather powerful flowering of health cows. Checks, investigations and operations have been postponed, and many report that people have made less contact with the prescriber, so we have an increasing lag and long queues that need to be resumed. The Cancer Association reports 50000 screening studies that have been exposed. The estimate is that there are 250,000 patient agreements that are postponed. The Minister of Health has invited to work in connection with the coronary apathy, and it has proved to be an enormous will in society, among other things. from private health professionals to help. The LHL hospital at Gardermoen made itself available and invested 20 million. kr to get ready to remedy the situation, but they never heard anything from Health South-East. It's a real scandal. My question is: Will the Prime Minister now take the initiative that we use all available capacity in the healthcare system to get rid of the emerging health cows?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e323	Yeah, we'll work on using the capacity we have around to get a lift. We have increased the appropriations for the hospital sector by 5.5 billion. kr. It has been calculated both to cover the costs we have, and to get something done with the queues we have. Then every healthcare company needs to see what capacity they have and what capacity others have, but it may well be possible now to make sure that we also use the capacity elsewhere. Especially in the case of the LHL hospital, as far as I can remember, it is among those who are now also working on the rehabilitation of former coronary patients, as a separate assignment, because there are some patients who have been on the intensive care for so long that they need that kind of help. Private rehabilitation institutions have been shut down since mid-March, but they've started reopening now, and it also makes us get back more of that activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e328	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e333	I initially thought that it was a principle Right and the Progress Party has always agreed, namely that we should use all available capacity even at the private sector. It appears strange that Bent Höie has not taken more steps in this period to facilitate the use of private treatment capacities — operations and other health services. I may not feel that the government here is forward in the shoes to do this. When you keep talking about life and health coming first, I think that life and health must come first with other serious diseases in society, and not just one-sided focus on coronary disease patients. There are many who are now experiencing severe suffering and a lot of pain, many who have not been treated badly. Then it is about taking advantage of all the available capacity, and I do not feel that the government is facilitating it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e338	It's part of the not-necessary life that was set aside also in public hospitals during the period we had very high preparedness. We are very pleased that this is the discussion we have now, and not the discussion we could have – about blasting intensive wards, that people who have other health challenges where life or death are being discussed are not getting help. It's the most important thing. So it is that in a whole series of measures that have been related to non-short-term life and health, private hospitals have disposed of their employees to work for public health during this period because there has been a shortage of labour. There has been good cooperation between private institutions and the public health sector. Now we're going back to a greater degree of normality, and we're going to make sure that the queues come down as quickly as possible, and then we're going to use all the capacity we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e347	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e352	Then I have just a brief supplementary question: does the Prime Minister think that the appropriations for the hospitals that came into the revised budget yesterday are sufficient to begin to reduce the delay that has accumulated in the last two months?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e357	We've granted $5.5. SEK in addition to half a billion in health benefits for lower employers’ fees in May and June. So it's a net increase of 6 billion. kr. It's a formidable situation. I think our biggest challenge in the future is to lack staff capacity, not money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e362	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e367	Unemployment in Norway is alarmingly high, and it has to go down. Families and businesses throughout Norway are uncertain about their own future, about their own economy. We can all contribute: The government can contribute, the Storting can contribute, each of us can contribute. For everyone – no matter what role we have – can help save jobs in Norway by buying Norwegian, and we should act locally. By buying Norwegian and shopping locally, we guarantee local jobs and Norwegian industry. If you are in the choice between buying a Norwegian cheese or a foreign cheese, you should buy Norwegian cheese. Then you secure jobs in the food industry. If you are in the election – that you have to replace your armchair because it is getting a little tired – between buying a Norwegian armchair from Sunnmøre or buying a foreign one, you should buy a Norwegian one from Sunnmøre and secure jobs, secure value creation, secure activity. When you're going to buy shoes and clothes, it might be a little bit difficult to get Norwegian, but you're in the choice between buying clothes and shoes at the local store, or buying it at Amazon or in a online store, where you create jobs abroad. Then you should buy shoes and clothes at the local local local store and through the safe workplaces in your community. And on May 17 you can buy Norwegian ice instead of foreign ice, buy Norwegian candy instead of foreign candy, buy Norwegian food – to create jobs and create value creation. This is a positive and pleasant effort we can all participate in: buying Norwegian, buying local, creating jobs, creating value creation. Then is my question to Prime Minister Erna Solberg: Will the Prime Minister encourage the Norwegian people to act Norwegian and through the secure workplaces?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e374	I think it is very important that we think through how we can contribute to the good functioning of our local business. I fully agree with the representative that it is fine if people go to the store locally and they maintain it. The merchandise has suffered a fall, except for the grocery industry. Then I don't put myself up in which cheese people eat, but I know there's an incredible number of good Norwegian oysters. Last Sunday I even found myself in a tiny shop – in Oslo – Fanaost, i.e. from my local irony, so I was very happy with it. It was localized at a distance. I hope it still holds for the Center Party, that when you're in Oslo, you buy something that's from Fana in Bergen. But I agree that it is important that we get the wheels going, and therefore I am concerned that if you plan to do something, to spend money, for example. on refurbishment, on measures in the house, so do it now, for there are many who are going to need it. But I'm not busy encouraging people to spend money they don't have, because I know there are a lot of people who are in a difficult economic situation, and who have to count the money a little in the future and don't know if the job is there. Then we can not just say that everyone should go out and spend money, because it is not certain that everyone has the opportunity and the space for action. But if you do, I'm sure it's very wise to spend money locally to get the jobs back. And then you have to choose which sofa you want, and which design you want in the living room. I think as Prime Minister I've gone a long way in many meddlings in people's lives lately, and I don't think I'm taking on the sofa choice for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e388	There's so much beautiful Norwegian furniture, that it's quite possible to encourage the Norwegian people to buy Norwegian, and you get a lot of great design, and it creates a lot of jobs. But I notice that the Prime Minister does not want to be so clear. The leader of the centre party is very clear: buy Norwegian, buy locally, build your country. That's wise. We had a debate in Stortinget on 19 March, where the majority of the population with the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party decided to secure national ownership of important companies, and that the state had to prepare to act if Norwegian companies were to go into play. We had a debate in Stortinget on 31 March, where the majority of the population decided to split up large public tenders to help create more jobs for small Norwegian entrepreneurs and Norwegian construction companies, precisely because we, the majority of the population, wanted to use tax money to build jobs and value creation in Norway. The right was – finally – with the last, but voted against the first. What has the Prime Minister done to follow up these decisions, and what will she do in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e395	We're working on looking through all of the assignments we have, to see if it's natural to split them up more. We still believe that one bridge should be built in one round, for example. a nice bridge to Bergen from Sotra, which we are working on, which is a OPS project. We're still concerned that it might be built in a whole and not have different contractors. But we also have a lesson from the last time the Center Party put in government, that the cost of construction projects was very high by dividing the projects into very small ones. One of the things we did at the beginning was to make sure that we got more money. And that was, among other things, making more functional lengths in the development, so that we actually reduced the costs of administration – we just got more money. So it's important to find the balance between the mistakes that were made during the financial crisis, which gave us significantly higher road construction costs, and that projects can become too large for Norwegians to be able to live at all. Then we also have to work with cooperation between suppliers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e402	There will be follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e407	In the Centre Party, we are more concerned that Norwegian entrepreneurs should build Norwegian roads than that of Chinese entrepreneurs – that is quite right. I want to go into one of the flagships in Norway. The Hurtigruten has been sailing along the Norwegian coast for 127 years and has transported people and goods and has been an important lifeblood for the amazing coast we have. Now, in the crisis that we are now facing, two out of 16 ships are at port. They're not sailing. That's about. 3,000 employees who are on leave and do not have a job. We know how crucial the Hurtigruten is for coastal communities, for tourism, for thousands of jobs also on land, and Hurtigruten has not been able to participate in the loan arrangements adopted by the Stortinget, because there have been such high returns on this money that the state will make money on it. Does the Prime Minister think it is right that a solid Norwegian company that has been sailing along the coast for over a hundred years cannot get help in the crisis we are now facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e416	Just for the first comment, it's important to remember that if we spend more money than we need to build a road, you can either get less money, or you can get less care for the money. There is no argument to drive inefficiently in the public sector just to work, because then it could be chosen to employ in other areas for perhaps greater welfare gains overall in our society. When it comes to the question of Hurtigruten, I just have to say that we cannot control every single company and every single arrangement under this. But I understand that one of the challenges Hurtigruten has faced is the bond fund scheme, that they fell into credit rating because of the coronary crisis. One of the things we've done is we've changed it, because we've seen that it's a measure that didn't happen completely, because there's also a change in the rating of a lot of companies. Then we'll see if that arrangement helps the Hurtigruten, maybe come back to other things. Because I agree that Hurtigruten is an action and offer we should have in Norway in the future. It is an important service for Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e423	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e428	As I said, unemployment is record high, and the Prime Minister highlights maritime transport in particular in the private sector. We have a significant shipbuilding industry along the whole coast, both in Egersund and Stord and Verdal, and there are hundreds of small businesses supplying them. They're doing thousands of jobs together. Now they're being permissive, and it's a word-dark thing. The next summer, Aker Solution may have gone from 10,000 workers to 3,000, and Kværner may have gone from 7 000 to 1000. Why does the government choose to risk these jobs with an oil proposal that no one in the industry believes is good enough and that will not ensure that activity is maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e433	It's often that when we make suggestions, the industry doesn't think it's good enough because they would like more. The question is, have we done anything about the main short-term liquidity challenges facing the industry? Yes, we do. Have we done anything to stimulate building more? Yes, we do. Maybe not enough – we'll have a discussion about that in Stortinget. But I have been on KonKraft's campaign in 2000–2003 against Stortinget that time. If we had completed what was proposed at the time with much more, the Norwegian state might have lost up to 2000 billion. kr. It is important to remember that we have an independent responsibility to assess how far we should go in all these matters. Then we are in a situation where there was a decline in activity for the yard industry anyway, because there are fewer projects in the future. It was an investment fall before the coronary crisis that also lay there on the table. We must not forget that not everything can be attributed to this, but that there is in fact a future development that provides a gradually lower activity in the oil and gas industry, in the new construction activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e440	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e445	The difference between the KonKraft proposal in 2003 and today is that the KonKraft proposal was a proposal for a permanent tax conversion. What is now being proposed is a deferred tax to cover the next two years. In many of these places we want to bet green, they have made plans for it both in terms of aquaculture and in terms of sea wind. But there are projects that lie a few years ahead. For Kværner Verdal there are no more assignments from the next summer. The renewal efforts do not come until 2023, and it is not possible to turn the switch off one year to think that you will turn it on the following year or two years later. Then professionals and knowledge are gone, so you have to cover the period between them. The question is: why would the government, with a proposal that also the clubs in these yards are opposed, make the green conversion more difficult for Norwegian shipyards than it needs to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e450	We have proposed these temporary changes because we have planned to bridge all the new solutions and therefore contribute more liquidity. Then we'll have to discuss whether we've met completely, but the government wants these questions discussed in the Stortinget. I would like to address one of the issues raised by the representative, namely that this is a temporary solution – yes, what the government has proposed is a temporary solution. Some of what is proposed by the industry has such a long time horizon that a temporary solution becomes difficult, for the triggering of some of the projects that they want us to now provide incentives, is actually an employment for the supplier industry – perhaps only in 2025 and 2026. It's a bit of a challenge, because some of what they're attacking, maybe for some of the biggest jobs, has a much longer time perspective. So there's a lot of things to discuss in this, whether this is a change that's actually about a permanent change in the system. If it takes too long, it would appear that we have put the tax system in a crisis, it is difficult to come back to another tax system afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e458	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e463	The question put by the representative, Battle Violence Vedum, made it tempting to say that we hope not to encourage the authorities of other countries to buy only their country's fish, we depend on them to buy Norwegian – is just as wise as Battle Violence Vedum believes the Norwegians should be. When we talk about fish, the coronary crisis leads to some consequences in many parts. Much of that is not something the government can do, but the government must be aware of it and take action. Karl Hansen is an exporter and fish organizer on the quay in Tromsø, an incredibly innovative type that has created many values for Norwegian restaurants and Norwegian exports. He now feels that the export route out of his projects has been lost. The post office no longer has the task of transporting goods out of the country, and therefore neither to pick up goods. There are now many coastal areas where fish produced clearly for the market – there is a market in which – do not have transport links. I ask the Prime Minister to pay attention to that relationship and to seek to contribute to the meeting of the ends, so that this value creation and the jobs are taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e470	We have been very concerned that the flow of goods will work even if we have border control and other things. There may be market failures in some areas, so there are not enough solutions. The Minister for Fisheries and Food has almost weekly video meetings with the industry, just to identify bottlenecks and other. If there's a bottleneck, of course we'll see how we can solve that kind of question. We're trying to keep track of the industries that can now have problems because of this situation, to ensure that as much as possible is affected. I'm just taking this with me, and then I'm sure the Minister for Fisheries will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e475	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e480	Economic crises tend to lead to an explosion of social inequality. That's why it's going to be a main task for us all to rebuild the Norwegian economy in a way that keeps the inequality of power and wealth down. Then the Prime Minister has sometimes been known as Jern-Erna – in the media at least. It's been about refugee policy, it's also about the way she as prime minister has met people, people on redundancy pay, poor carers, chroniclers who have gained increased self-esteem and others who have been hit by the unsocial cuts of this government. But the Prime Minister also has a soft side, and Myke-Erna is the prime minister who meets the richest and most powerful in our society with large tax havens and zero demands. In this connection, I would like to ask some questions about the oil tax package. For the government's proposal on the tax package for oil companies, this is another example. It lacks concrete initiatives that can give industry new jobs and secure jobs, but it is likely to lead to increased dividends for shareholders. There is a real risk that money released will be entitled to dividends. The major international companies operating on the Norwegian base do not plan to drop dividends despite the crisis. This concerns Equinor, Shell, Lundin, Aker BP – all companies in which it has been notified that the parent company will pay to its shareholders. Then my question is, how can we be sure that the risk taken by the State by postponing the tax does not primarily contribute to the financing of the profits of the oil companies to international investors?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e491	I understand that SV is trying to revive my reputation from my municipal minister days 15-20 years ago. I think it was the last time people called me Jern-Erna. I am proud that we made sure to clear up the relationship between groundless asylum seekers and what were real asylum seekers at that time. I think the things I did at the time, as was then perceived as radical and different, today are perceived as completely common sense and natural things, for example. to launch a 48-hour reverse operation to get people who had no basis for applying, out of the country again. I understand that this is the new stamping mechanism from SV today. With regard to the issue of dividends, Equinor – when paying dividends – pays most of the proceeds to the Norwegian population through money to the country. We have such a large state ownership that the dividends in this sector do not essentially go to the rich, if we do not define the Norwegian people and the state as ‘richeries’. We have created a system where we believe this will stimulate more activity, to ensure more people work. Then we're going to work on the discussion here at Stortinget about how we get it. If we trample the rules on dividends for these companies, we can risk getting the opposite, that there are fewer projects being adopted, that there are fewer projects coming in, because the funding of it overall becomes more difficult. It is important to remember that there are some investors on the large international stock exchanges, i.e. pension funds, who, because they do not want to make extensive use of in and out – such as investments in shares and changes in the portfolio – invest only in companies that guarantee road profits. It'll be a pretty big drying out of that kind of funding sources if we make a lot of profit-related adjustments. I just think it'll work against its purpose in this situation, because I think it'll be harder to get to the projects if you have these constraints.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e500	It was not my intention to label it – I perceived it at the time as a characteristic with which the Right was a little satisfied. But in any case, I will not open the debate on refugee policy in the early 2000s. On the other hand, I would like a clear answer as to why the government is not willing to make clearer demands in connection with its oil tax package. Why can one not demand that if one is to benefit from these tax advantages, dividends should not be paid in that period? If not, this is an example of an industry being able to access government money without making demands to ensure that we get a fair distribution and a targeted use of that money. We believe that the right way to support the industry now is targeted support for concrete projects, accelerating the green shift and ensuring that we get the money directly targeted at jobs. Does the Prime Minister intend to make any specific demands on green projects, on the cessation of dividends?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e505	We return to the incentives associated with the green change in the package that comes in May/June. It was announced at the same time that we presented the changes to the tax proposals, where there will be measures to contribute to several of the future steps that are important for the shipbuilding industry in Norway, and which are important for the entire maritime sector — many of the measures that can help us get more activity there. We feel that what we have been promoting is a proposal that will contribute to more liquidity, which helps to increase the opportunities to launch projects, and that liquidity depletion is not a tax relief. Over time, provided you make profitable investments, this will be repaid and actually give little more in tax revenue. I think the proposals that SV is addressing would help to weaken the whole instinct. Remember, in almost all the projects we have, there is a consortium of several companies that are in there to contribute to it, and that means that a partner can say: this is a regime that we don't want to share in financing. That's when the yard industry's jobs are going to suffer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e512	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e517	More liquidity, yes, but the big question is whether the government has control of what that liquidity is used for. That's my point, because no one is interested that it will end up as more money for dividends for the shareholders of the oil companies. But let me move on, because I think there's a pattern here. If you look at the crisis packages the Stortinget has granted, there has been a lot of agreement, but there has been a systematic disagreement about the willingness to make demands on those who are initially among the richest and most powerful in this country. There's a sharp contrast to how the government meets people in low crisis. People who have become ill, people who need help from the state to get the ends to meet, meet with demands. Right is a lot that's very busy stressing that you have to make demands, but take the big owners, for example.: The government has not wanted to make demands on the big house owners to put down rents in connection with the crisis packages – why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e522	I would like to stress that the difference is probably not about who you want to demand, but about understanding how investments work, and what helps us secure jobs in the future. The Swedish policy would contribute to fewer investments, fewer jobs and fewer willingness to invest. Those who take the largest pressure now in terms of falls in values are actually many of the private owners around. They have to take dividends from one company in some companies to deposit money into another company, in order to contribute equity. Putting very strong restrictions on moving capital in this way could therefore help to prevent getting money and input into those companies that need to develop further, and which are perhaps the most fragile within a responsibility or area of ownership of one person. There's an understanding of the business that I think is very different in SV and Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e528	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e533	I think many in the business world that is the hardest hit by the crisis have an understanding of business that is far closer to mine, when, for example, they are. would argue that it would be reasonable for the large property companies to contribute more to bringing the rent down for outsourced shops. Or, to take what the Prime Minister himself came up with, dividends: the opposition was ready to be on proposals that made it possible to take out dividends in some circumstances, of the kind that the Prime Minister mentioned, but the right-hand side would have no restrictions at all, for it is obviously so unnatural for the right-hand side to make demands on them at the top of society. In its crisis package, Denmark had both a requirement to stop dividends if it received government money and a requirement that state crisis money could not go to companies with links to tax havens. Does the Prime Minister think that the Danes are responsible for an irresponsible and poor industrial policy, or that there is a greater chance of such links in Danish business than in Norwegian?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e540	Time will show who gets the best out of the measures that have been put in place and how this has worked. So let's figure that out. We've said that we're going to have a big research project on these questions gradually. Then we'll see who gets the best out of Norway and Denmark. Has there been barriers or anything else for others? It's hard to say it in advance – we'll see it in retrospect. At least I am not playing with Norwegian jobs and the opportunity to do so. That's the main reason. I agree with the representative Lysbakken that the property companies should have put the rent down. So we didn't give 100 pst. the recovery of fixed costs under the cash arrangements. It was supposed to be an incentive to negotiate with their homeowners to bring down the rental also that way, at least temporarily. Many of them will be interested in doing something of this, because if companies go concubine, they will have bigger problems getting rent in the future. So it's an incentive to get it into the arrangement we've made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e547	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e552	That's the challenge: when it comes to forces in our society that have a lot of money and a lot of power, it's trust that should apply. I perceive that the Prime Minister, in the same way that she wants large owners of homes to contribute to the work, believes and will certainly encourage that no dividends be made. She's just not willing to make demands. You can imagine that you should start meeting those who are dependent on social security, in the same way, so don't make demands, but just trust them. It would be a new line from the government. But as far as they're concerned at the top of the Norwegian community, this boundless trust is allowed to apply. It remains to be seen whether dividends are being collected, and whether government money goes to companies with links to tax havens, but I could imagine knowing whether the Prime Minister's resistance to such demands is because she doesn't think it's a problem, or because she thinks it's wrong to make demands, for example. enterprises with links to tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e557	Let me take the example that was mentioned on the previous question, namely the question of the rental scheme. If we were to make it a condition for a single company to receive support from the cash support scheme, that their lessor had agreed to reduce the rent, the lessor would not have been hit. It's the company and the jobs we'd been trying to save, which would have been hit if they had a landlord who said it wasn't possible. There are many landlords who have put down the rent somewhere, and who know that it's a necessary part. But such detailed management of business can have many other consequences. We are now concerned that everyone should contribute; we all need to make sure that Norway gets through, but we should not create rules that can contribute to the loss of jobs because we want to pursue symbolism policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e562	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e567	During the Korona crisis, the Nordics have held together to protect the most vulnerable. We've turned our heads around, and it's costing hundreds of billion dollars. But we've done it because it's needed, because when we humans know what's most important, we're basically so rigged that we want to contribute – even when it takes big changes in our everyday lives. In the last few weeks, the Prime Minister and the government have shown their power of action, taken management and focused on what is most important. A new survey by Opinion looks at the will of the Nordics for their own change and expectations of the politicians in the Korona crisis, and compares it with the same will for change and expectations of politicians to deal with another major threat to life, health and well-being, namely the climate crisis. The result is striking: One in three Nordics believes that politicians must be as active in the face of the climate crisis as they have been in the Korona crisis – despite the fact that we have recently had the most interventional measures in peacetime. And not least: both this survey and several previous studies have shown very clearly that the majority of Nordics want politicians to help them make climate-friendly choices. Together, this gives the Prime Minister great room to take leadership, including in the face of climate change, which we know threatens the future of our children. Is the Prime Minister ready to show the same action in dealing with the climate crisis as she has shown in dealing with the coronary crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e576	I'm prepared to take strong action to help bring down emissions in Norway and get on the right track globally. Norway and the Norwegian authorities are constantly working. But that does not mean that we necessarily agree with the Green Party in all the measures or how we do it. It's important to underline. However, Norway is now gradually moving to jobs that are much more linked to a green shift. We're going to have another kind of energy development in Norway, we're going to electrify considerably more in the future. One of the reasons we wanted changes in the tax environment for the oil industry is that we want to realize many of the power-from-country projects and electrification projects that are necessary to reduce point emissions in Norway. There is, of course, a different strategy from that normally applied by the Green Party, but there are several ways to achieve the same objective. We are now working on a hydrogen strategy to look at industrial development, but also on the development of other energy carriers for transport in the future – important solutions that are likely to both provide jobs in Norway and contribute to lower CO 2 emissions in the future. We're working on circular economy, there's going to be a separate circular economy action plan where we're also looking at how we can use all the materials, recycle a lot more and use the values that are going away today, and there's actually an example in Norway. In the last 20 to 30 years, by-products that were previously disposed of and landfilled sites have gained an incredible amount of value and products. But it's also an area where we have to work with more technology, and there's going to be big changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e588	I think this answer is quite remarkable, because I asked for an answer on the power of action and the willingness to commit. It should be unproblematic for a prime minister today to undertake to show the same power of action in the face of the climate crisis that she has shown in the context of the coronary crisis. The climate management that the Prime Minister does not have is about to emerge in the EU. In December the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, declared: «I'm confident that the old growth model that is based on fossil-fuels and pollination is out of date [[...]] In winter, the EU Vice-President stated that Norwegian gas has to go away in any case when the EU is going to become carbon neutral. The EU buys most of our gas. Is the Prime Minister concerned that tax benefits and crisis packages for the oil industry can lead to unprofitable investments and heavy losses for Norwegian taxpayers?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e602	I see no contrast between what this government is doing and what the EU has put in its green deal – or the work and direction we have. If the power of action is to declare action, not to show what you're doing, it's to me a little impotent to be a politician. It's actionable to do things in the future, it's the most important thing, and so we have a plan to do this. We are now working even more to get back to reporting on the follow-up to the Climate Action Programme, so that we can achieve our CO 2 cut targets in Norway by 2030. But it does require some other measures. We need to maintain jobs at the same time, we need to develop new jobs, we need to move on gradually. And then I believe that even though gas may not be the long-term solution in a European perspective, it is still that no renewable system can cope without any stabilisers, and gas is a better stabiliser in Europe than for example. coal power.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e611	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e616	The reason why I brought the EU forward here is that it is our main gas market, and some of the projects we are now at risk of stimulating with tax advantages for oil, are projects that will arrive in time, and it will take a few years before that extraction starts to happen. At that time, the EU has come even further in its plan to cut its emissions. That is something I would at least have expected the Prime Minister to take over and clearly show that she is obsessive, because here we are at risk of huge investment losses, huge losses for the Norwegian community and unsafe jobs. In addition, I would say that committing to action in the face of the climate crisis, really just means being willing to say just as clearly where what we've done in the last few weeks, that is, that we see what's most important. So we're willing, yes, in our time, not to give tax breaks to fossil cars, we're willing not to build the highways that someone wants, because that's not what our time needs the most. It will increase emissions in the short term and it will increase emissions in the long term – until all cars are electric cars. So is the Prime Minister ready to do what is needed to cut emissions by 2030 to the goals that she has promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e623	We are ready to do the measures that will cut CO 2 emissions in relation to our targets. But it's not certain that it's MDG's policy that's going to do it. For example, I believe motorways, in a perspective where there are zero-emission cars running on them, are fine. It binds together labour market regions, it provides for the strengthening of the competitiveness of a scattered country, it can provide more effective solutions for zero-emission transport than, for example, it does. large-scale railway development is going to do over time, because it is more flexible and closer to people. Then our starting point is not to take away what binds Norway together, but to ensure good transport in the future, make sure that the means of transport we have are zero-emission cars and zero-emission solutions. That's why hydrogen bet is important, because commercial traffic, the transportation of goods, is hardly going to be able to cope with only electrification. Then they might have to deal with solutions where we have other fuels in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e633	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e638	It is important to recover the supplier industry, the yard industry and the oil and gas industry we have. Speaking of gas: the Prime Minister mentioned hydrogen and circular economy. One good reason why we're going to continue with gas is that it can pave the way to hydrogen, and that we can get blue hydrogen. But a prerequisite for success is that we succeed in capturing and storing CO 2. Here, gas can open up a large new potential. My question is simple: Will there be measures in phase 3 that can shorten down that path, until we get a breakthrough for hydrogen and a breakthrough for CCUS, capture, storage and use of CO 2? The point is that this doesn't come of itself. The market is not going to deliver it alone. It needs quite powerful political instruments. Will it be part of the package in phase 3?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e651	Hydrogen is a theme that comes up in phase three on the planet we're now. We are working on this hydrogen-related strategy, with individual measures and actions coming to Stortinget. Then we're not done with all the treatments, but that's one of the themes. Of course, ammonia is another theme that can come, but it doesn't give completely zero emissions in production in the same way. In terms of capture and storage, I understand the urgency. I understand that, but we have to spend the time we need to ensure the quality of these projects well enough for us to make an investment decision. There are billions to be spent in the next few years to realize capture and storage. Then we have to have a decision-making basis, show the cost bit and not get at the stage where we were, that we suddenly have to put something away because it cracks because you have a rush project. We have to learn from Mongstad. There was never a CCS capture plant in Mongstad, because you might have had the wrong starting point when you started the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e658	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e663	In yesterday's budget, we saw not only the lack of a powerful programme to get people to work and to ensure the well-being, what we need in an unusual situation, we also saw traces of the government's usual unsocial policies. Firstly, the government's cut in the support scheme for goggles will save 160 million. kr this year, much more than estimated, second, that when the amount of child benefit is not adjusted up to the appropriate level, the government saves 209 million. kr there. And because the basic amount is falling backwards, the appropriations for old-age pensioners are falling by a total of 3 940 million. kr. So at the very other end of the scale than petty savings on children and the elderly, the scheme comes for businesses, where 50 billion is allocated. kr. Red is for crisis packages that ensure jobs, but they must be accurate. A unanimous increase determined that we expected paid support ‘not to contribute to dividends in addition to ordinary wages and taxes, and that it is important that lessors do not avail themselves of the support of lessees not to contribute through reduced rents’. Then there have been several examples of the opposite in retrospect of the decision. We know that we adopted the system in record time, because it was urgent to get started. Both the Storting and the Government assumed that adjustments should be considered after the initial payment. So Friday opens a second round of applications. Has the government considered adjustments to the scheme to ensure that the Storting's assumptions about both dividends and rentals are met in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e674	The adjustments and areas we have seen in several of these compensation schemes have been to meet people or enterprises that are not organised in the same way, in the form of a limited liability company, to ensure that they do not fall outside compensation schemes. That's the main piece of change we've made on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e679	There was no answer to the question whether the government has considered making changes to ensure that the Storting's assumptions about dividends and rents are taken into account and fulfilled in the future. We read in DN that now comes the demands for full rent. Works have said that so far there are very few signals that the owners of the house actually contribute. It's a mixture of the landlords pushing the problem in front of them to see what the tenants get in compensation, and they don't see any point in giving relief. Thus, there are unanimous comments from the Storting that it is assumed that less rents are to be provided by the lessors during the period of shutdown or a significant decrease in the turnover of the lessees. Still, we see that they don't contribute that way. Then the question is, how can the government see that this is happening, without trying to correct it by tightening up the requirements of the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e686	The answer to that is that tightening up the requirements of the scheme does not affect the lessors, it affects the companies that rent. If we're going to say that they don't get the money to cover their fixed costs if the landlords haven't reduced the rental price, it actually means that we're going to bankrupt people. Businesses are going to die. That's what we're doing in this system. There is no instrument against lessors related to this cash support scheme. I assume that we all have the same intention. We have strongly appealed to lessees, but they also have loans and instalments and things to pay. They have empty premises somewhere, and they have challenges in financing projects. The values have fallen. One of the things that has fallen most in the construction sector now is industrial buildings and projects related to it. It is not unnatural at a time when you might want to see several empty office and shop rooms in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e694	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e699	We see that half of the money has gone to property companies so far. That might not have been the whole intention of the arrangement. Then we see that a researcher on economic inequality from the United States, Chuck Collins, warns against crises accelerating economic differences, and recommends special taxes on unreasonable profits on a crisis, what he calls a pandemic profit. Especially if someone is left with an unwarranted state-funded profit, it must be in everyone's interest to rectify it. In the government's range of commissions, there is also an expert committee to assess the economic countermeasures against the coronary apathy. We could have used some kind of technical calculation committee that looked at the corporate support system and also looked at the accumulation of wealth due to the crisis, and whether the taxes have unintended consequences, which could prevent the community from taking the losses, while the private people get unfair benefits. Will this be within the remit of the committee, or is there a need for a separate job to look at these aspects of the economic impact of the crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e706	The sample now delivering to the third stage has looked at the way the measures have worked, and what kind of action will be most effective against the challenges we see in the more short term in the Norwegian economy. The long-term sample set up on Friday, to look at instruments up to 2025, has a relatively open mandate. They are not specified to look at different distribution effects, but they have a relatively open mandate to look at what is going on to ensure jobs and what economic development is going to be like. I can't say if they're going to take the question of whether someone has been left with extra revenues associated with this. Of course, there are some companies that go better than others in this situation. The daily food industry is doing better, but they also have expenditures related to infectious diseases, and people have been working there. Because people have done more, the food industry has gone better than part of the others, but to call it a pandemic profit, I would say is wrong. They have been on and working and have contributed to the country's success at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e713	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e718	Very many businesses are now fading as a result of the crisis, but most, due to their crisis packages, also receive good help in keeping workplaces and wheels in motion. But those who don't have income as a purpose, those who are not taxable, for example. organisations, foundations, voluntary organisations and non-profit actors that provide important services to the public but which at the same time have not suffered any loss of income as a result of cancelled events or lack of housing — examples of such activities are all of our recruitment companies, important organisations such as the Cancer Association, 4H, the spearheads, ANSA, all of our national colleges, and indeed at all teams and associations across Norway and in addition our used shops — they fall outside all crisis packages. The government therefore asked to come back with a solution for these, but we were disappointed yesterday that they were still standing without a solution. When we know, at the same time, that large tax-free chains that pay dividends in Germany, or bag shops in Akersgata that sell luxury goods, receive tens of millions of state support through the crisis, it is absurd that the government is not able to follow up the Great Britain's marshalling grounds to also let our used shops, the Cancer Association, 4H, the recruitment companies, yes, all the volunteers who are standing around to do something for others, get to participate in the crisis packages. Why has the government not followed up the decision of the Great Government to also provide these with emergency aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e725	One of the things that I think is good about the crisis packages we've created is that we haven't had moral condemnation of what kind of activity you're doing, whether you're in that segment or segment, which was under in Anette Trettebergstien's comment now, with a contempt for someone working in a store, for needing security, for having sold them and the goods. I actually think it's a bad idea to do that. I don't think we should have the moral index finger on who gets – jobs are jobs, jobs are jobs. So we're very busy trying to find a solution just for second-hand shops, reinsurance companies and others. What's difficult about these arrangements is that because they're not a corporation, because they don't follow all the same rules, it's been hard to do this. We don't get everything in place, we work around the clock in the departments, but we have it on the list, and we get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e732	There is no moral condemnation in saving any jobs. My point is that it seems that this government is busy saving some jobs in front of others. Therefore, the Storting also said that those I mentioned as examples, the government had to come back with a solution for in the revised national budget. It hasn't come. We have to get out of this crisis without increasing differences in our society. If we are to be able to stand together through the crisis, people must see that the authorities are engaged in treating jobs equally. People don’t see and understand that the government allows large groups to get emergency help at the same time as they take out dividends, or that large luxury shops get what they need, while small players – such as our used shops, the Cancer Association, 4H and the management companies – don’t have room for government. Why does the Prime Minister not want to present a solution to the small, ideal actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e737	The Cancer Association is not a small, non-profit player. It's a great, ideal actor, and they're doing a great job. We're dedicated to taking care of all of these. So we haven't been able to find a solution in the revised national budget for these, but we're still working on the question and the matter. That's because the simplified methods we've been using have been calculated for the large width of e.g. a limited liability company, which reports under a given system. The fact that you have different directions from other organisations means that you have to be much more detailed to cover up all of them. So we've been working a lot on a lot of solutions, but we're not in the port of these solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e742	The decision of the Grand Duchy’s request explained clearly to the government how to make a solution for these businesses. Another request decision the government has not followed up well, was the decision of the Storting that the government had to come back with a crisis package for the media, which now bleeds due to the crisis. Journalists are permitted and dismissed, while the media have never had more to do than now — and they are more important than ever over the course of the crisis. The solution that was presented yesterday will only cover about 20 pst. Of the million losses now in the media, two thirds of the country's journalists are working in media houses that will not be affected by the crisis. Does the Prime Minister think that there is a good solution with a crisis package that is not going to save journalism at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e749	That's exactly what this crisis package is aimed at -- saving journalism, saving coverage, saving the media. There are a number of media companies that are not engaged in ordinary journalism, news communication or anything else, which may fall outside this. It is important to say that the media houses have suffered a fall in income. There's a little bit different between the different industries, but they get a coverage, and many of them have had less decline in their income than what we set as criteria in the cash support scheme and for many other companies. I can see that you want to give more money to them, but this time we give a significant sum that is in the order of magnitude a doubling of what will be the media support normally. It's a solid contribution to them, but we can't cover up for all industries, for example. for all advertising revenue lost around. The state cannot accept all of that, just as the state did not undertake to cover the advertising revenue at any time when there were crises under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e754	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e768	There are no changes to the configured question list.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e776	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and Defence the following questions: ‘Especially in Oslo, there have been recent alarming incidents in juvenile delinquency, and overall there has been a worrying increase in juvenile delinquency in recent years. The government has promised for a long time that it is working on several measures that can counteract this: 1. New action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency. 2nd@item: inlistbox Prohibition of machete. 3rd@item: inlistbox New provisions to ban residence. 4th@item: inlistbox Prohibition of participation in, and recruitment to, criminal gangs. When does the Council of State plan that these measures will be clarified by the Government and submitted to the Stortinget?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e785	Let me first thank the representative for a very important question. Although child and youth crime is low in Norway and most are not registered for crimes, it is worrying that we see a small group of young people committing repeated crimes. The Government is committed to preventing and combating child and youth crime. It turns out that those who commit repeated or serious crime often have complex challenges, live in families with severe living conditions and often need more than one. Although a lot of good work is done, we see a lack of interaction and cooperation between services and municipalities. We also see that more can be done, so that families and young people get the follow-up they want. Crime needs to be resolved in cooperation across several sectors. Therefore, the action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency should be cross-sectoral. The government intends to present it towards the end of the year, as we announced in January of this year. A proposal for a ban on machete and an alternative proposal for a ban on long knives were sent to a hearing on 21 February this year. Because there are a number of challenges to a ban, the hearing bodies were asked for input into possible solutions. We now got those recordings in March, and we're now following up on how this can be solved. There are several ways we can impose a residence or a visit ban on children and young people. Children under 15 years of age may be prohibited from staying at a specific place whose stay on site increases the risk of the child committing a criminal offence. Visiting bans may also be imposed on both young and adults. This may also include the prohibition of staying at a specific location. The Ministry assesses in a number of areas how the provisions on bans and bans can provide more effective protection. If the juvenile criminals are foreign nationals, the rules on expulsion and expulsion may apply. I gave as late as January this year an instruction on the increased use of expulsions and expulsions on the basis of disturbances in the order of foreigners without a residence permit. In line with the Granavolden platform, the government is working with several regulatory changes that will affect the work against criminal groups. The criminal investigation by the Council of Ministers now came in March and shows that it is possible to impose a criminal order involving participation in and recruitment to criminal gangs and organisations. I am now assessing how that investigation can be followed up. I think I'll say it that way: a lot is done, but a lot still has to be done. This is a social problem that we have to jointly contribute to solving.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e802	I thank the Council of State for an informative response – and a concrete response on several points. I'd like to follow up a couple of points. One applies to the prohibition of machete. It is a fear-provoking weapon that is the most widely used in these juvenile delinquency groups, among other things. Herjer in Oslo. The Granavolden platform does not say that the ban should be assessed; it says that the ban should be imposed. In practice, it is for the government to add one word in the first paragraph of Section 9 of the Arms Regulation, where there is an enumeration of knives that are totally prohibited in Norway: add to machete there. It is a little difficult for me to understand that when you said that in January 2019, and this is an acute problem, you spend so long adding one word. In the case of a restraining order, I would like to say that the law house that exists today is subject to a restraining order, and the police use it as a diversion: a restraining order. But it's been problematic multiple times in the justice system, and the police are spending a lot of resources and a long time, so we need a better regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e813	My approach to the word ‘machete’ is like the representative’s – I also had the impression that this had to be easy to design. The hearing has shown that it is not entirely simple. There is a prohibition on the use of a knife, there is a prohibition on the keeping of a knife in public places, and it is also such that certain knives are prohibited under the Arms Regulation because the knife itself is without a «negligible purpose» as it is called. Unfortunately, it does not apply to the machete. It turns out that the term is not quite accurate, not quite uniquely related to knives, machetes, used both by cooks and by people who are hunting. This has made it a little bit difficult, because we need legal texts that are completely unambiguous. But we are now working to follow this up, and I hope I can make a proposal on this for the Stortinget. The same applies to the more effective use of residence bans and expulsion rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e824	I thank you for that answer too. I just want to say that the discussion about machete, with the objections that the Council of State referred to – they were well-known – took place throughout 2018. They were well-known when the government of the Granavolden platform decided to introduce that ban. You should have taken into account those objections when you decided to introduce it. In the case of a ban on participation in, or recruitment to, criminal gangs, it is great if the Council of State will say something more about when it can come. We've now seen the creation of Satudarah in the East, in Oslo, an international, dangerous, criminal gang, so it's a most topical question to get it in place. Something else in the Granavolden platform that the government says it should do is create rules for more effective withdrawal. It is also very important, because the money is so central to these juvenile drug-trafficking environments. So if the state council can also comment on the work on it, it would be fine, because it is a practical problem for the police in Oslo on a daily basis how to get the money confiscated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e835	It's certainly possible that you could think better through the concept of Granavolden, but we'll get back to it. I'm going to present to both government and magnification possible solutions to that. When, after a hearing, we are told that a concept is not completely unambiguous, we must at least clearly work on how to understand it, and we do. We fully agree that macheter is a udder, and that we have to do something about it. As far as withdrawal is concerned, we will receive a recommendation from the Criminal Felony Council in August. They're asked to do a job of looking at how to get more involved in values that are derived from criminal relationships. Then there's a little room for opportunity, as the Criminal Felony Council has described it, to enforce it to recruit and be a member of gangs. The space for action is sluggish within both the Constitution and the human rights related to freedom of organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e847	‘Most deaths resulting from the corona virus have occurred in hospitals, and at the Metodis home in Bergen, 16 out of 46 residents have died of the disease. The county board has concluded with defensive operation, but that old buildings, many added to quarantine and poor test capacity were decisive for the situation, and that the pandemic plan at the hospital was inadequate. The government has announced a 400 million action package. crowns for vulnerable children and young people. Will the Council of State ensure a package of measures to strengthen municipal protection and protect vulnerable elderly people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e854	The government is concerned that people who need care should be confident that they will receive a good and worthwhile offer when they need it. Hospital residents are particularly vulnerable in the situation we face, both because of age and because of underlying diseases. It is important for municipalities to safeguard all vulnerable groups during this period. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the health and care services, such as nursing homes, and that ensure that there is good maintenance of building mass and adequate staffing and capacity. Municipalities are also responsible for emergency and infectious plans. It has been important for the government to provide a good incentive system for municipalities. Through our budgets, we have made it possible to build and modernise a record number of health care facilities in hospitals and nursing homes. With a commitment framework of 3.6 billion. In the 2020 budget, around 2000 more and better places of care for the lucky day have been combined by the government to provide some 17 500 lucky day care places with a total commitment framework of approximately 29.1 billion. kr for the period 2014 to 2020. In comparison, about 7.6 billion were committed in the years 2008–2013. NOK about 11 250 for day care. As the representative Toppe refers to, the County has concluded with proper operation. The County also pointed out that the prevention of infection by hospitals is demanding for several reasons, such as the difficulty of detecting symptoms, the need for quarantine and low testing capacity for many employees. To meet this, we have among other things. asked the municipalities to build up the sampling capacity considerably. The goal is that everyone with symptoms of covid-19 should have the opportunity to test themselves. We also monitor whether there is a need for changes related to existing housing stock, but at present it is too early to establish whether today’s building requirements are good enough to address infectious diseases. Then, of course, we have to evaluate and learn when this is over. We will further assess this in cooperation with the House Bank and the Health Directorate. The investment grant currently has a sufficient framework, and the House Bank has not reported increased progress from the municipalities as a result of covid-19 or infectiveness in general. However, we are following this development and will continuously consider the need for further action specifically directed to the group addressed by the representative Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e867	Thanks for the answer. It's interesting, as the council also points out, that old buildings are referred to as one of the reasons why there was a lot of infection in this hospital. Then it is interesting that the government has proposed to remove the excuse for rehabilitation of hospitals. Now, the Storting wouldn't like that, but I'd like to challenge the Council of State if he doesn't see that it's important to stimulate the municipalities to restore the hospitals just because the work on infectious diseases can also be easier, and that it'll be decisive in a pandemic. I would also like to ask whether he can guarantee that local authorities and all hospitals now have test equipment and testing capacity for everyone, and all of the necessary infectious diseases equipment? We have known that we have a great lack of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e876	To the first question, yes, I think it is important that the municipalities maintain their hospitals. What is a discussion is whether the state will continue to finance the maintenance of nursing homes that are now beginning to become the nursing homes to which we grant in due course for them to build. I am concerned that the municipalities themselves do not take sufficient responsibility for maintaining and rehabilitating their buildings. That was also the background to the change that the government proposed in its time. We have a good cooperation with the municipalities to build up the testing capacity. Laboratory capacity is not now an obstacle to testing. My impression is that most municipalities are now in the process of establishing good arrangements to test what is needed. In the case of test equipment, they get it from hospitals. In the case of protective equipment, it is fairly distributed between municipalities and hospitals in the country. If the municipalities have a lack of it, there is also a national reserve from which they can get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e885	Many refer to the elderly as the most vulnerable under this pandemic. They're triple frames: they're the ones with the highest mortality rate, they're more likely to experience the biggest consequences of infectious diseases, and they don't have as good access to hospital services as the rest of the population. It also says Siren Eriksen, senior researcher at the National Ageing and Health Service, in a chronicle in our country, that we cannot have it so that for a person who is old and living at the hospital, treatment for the cereal virus should be far worse than if the person offered in his own home. The point is that there has to be an individual rating. I'm worried if the hospitals have enough equipment and good enough skills to deal with seriously ill patients in such a crisis. Many people are concerned about the availability of regular hospital care for the elderly during this crisis. Can the State Council confirm that an individual assessment of all should be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e892	Yes, an individual assessment shall be made of all. It also emerges from the guidelines of the Health Directorate. So it's that an individual assessment in the case of hospital residents, very often, will be that they will have little benefit from being transferred to hospitals. The intensive treatment given in hospitals can also often be a burden on these patients, because we know that very many of those living in hospitals simply have a very bad health. For example, they will. not be able to undergo intensive treatment in a hospital, and then the individual assessment will very often be that the best thing for the patient is to receive the treatment, care and care provided in hospitals. But an individual assessment must always be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e900	‘Beitekrisa is a heavy burden on the reindeer in Northern Ireland this year. But for many years the calf loss in the county has been about. 60 pst. Every year. Roof game means that the reindeer uses more energy and pulls away from feeding grounds, or the few areas where there are pastures. As a result, an industry with major problems is being extra exposed to the herrings of the predatory game this year, because predatory disorders can be as deadly as direct losses to predatory game. How does the Council of State contribute to the granting of exceptional killing permits in such situations?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e907	National predatory policy has been reflected in the treatment of four large-scale messages by the Storting since 1992, and there have also been a large number of representative proposals in the case of predators. These provide details on how to set up the predatory game management in order to achieve the two-part objective of predatory game and grazing at the lowest level of conflict. The government follows up the adopted policy by facilitating the achievement of the target both for specific regional stocking targets for the predatory game species and for the commercial exploitation of the set-aside. As Minister of Agriculture and Food, I am committed to caring for the interests of the grazing industry in predatory game policy, and I do so in dialogue with my colleague in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, who has the constitutional responsibility to follow up the decision of the Storting in the field of predatory policy. The two-part objective involves finding a balance between two considerations where keeping the conflict at a low level will always be a challenge. Therefore, the Granavolden platform included clarification on ‘ensuring a clear geographical differentiation between predators and grazing animals’, precisely to reduce the level of conflict. In particular, the overlapping land use of reindeer and predatory game poses greater challenges and leads to conflicts. There are fewer options for introducing prevention measures. In the Nordic region, the number has been replaced by a pure increase from around 2 000 animals in the 2000s to around 3 000 animals in the 2010s. Overall, there has been an increase in the number of clean substitutes in the country. 20 000 animals in the year up to 2008. In recent years it has varied a little, but it has been there. In 2018–2019, the number was 18 000 pure. The representative’s question of exceptional breeding permits for wild game is raised in the light of reindeer operations in Northern Ireland. To meet the grazing crisis, I have taken several initiatives to increase the allocation of the crisis response fund for reindeer management. Overall, we've spent 50 million dollars. NOK to this. The representative also indicates that the reindeer is particularly vulnerable during calving. The representative is absolutely right in that, and therefore it is incredibly important for me, in any situation, to talk about where to put action. I would like to point out that there are now exceptional take-offs of wild game at the State Nature Observatory following the decision of the State or the Environment Directorate, precisely because the challenges are particularly great this year, with the climate conditions that are at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e922	In my office it hangs a picture. It shows 17 reindeer on the Salt Mountain. I got it a few years ago by a young reindeer. He was dismayed by what he saw in the picture. Many would not know what he was despairing about, but there were 17 Simler, the picture was taken in February, and not one had calf at his foot. He said, "Is it life made to drive clean?" In Voengelh-Nårke the 1,500 calves were slaughtered in 1993. Now they have almost no calves to slaughter, even they slaughtered one calf last year. A culture and an industry are dying. The Minister referred to the two-part objective, but it is with all the statesmen that the predatory game is the main objective, and then the grazing industry becomes naturally a secondary objective. How can the Minister not see that the reindeer and the interests of the grazing industry must be lifted if we are to have this two-part goal that the Stortinget has set?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e929	I was so lucky to come from a sewage treatment plant last night. I got to see a carnage together with a reindeer sweater – a sim that was taken from predators. I want to say that I understand the reindeer owners more than anyone, and I'm raising their challenges in every situation. I am responsible for the grazing industry and will promise this, and then it is a constitutional responsibility of the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment. This is important in order to facilitate a living reindeer industry in Norway. We must then be able to raise the challenge of the reindeer industry to have pastures in the same area as there are predators. Then we have to raise both sides of the matter. The representative is quite right about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e934	When the calves are swimming and there is a bear in the area, it's like letting kids into a candy store, said bear researcher Støen. Now there's a bear in Byrkje in Børgefjell, and a pure calf. There were large bear injuries in sheep in 2018 and 2019 in this area, and the municipality of Grane has applied for a breeding permit. The potential for damage in the calving country is enormous, but the Environment Directorate is waiting. And now I come to an important point: both in March and April 2015, the Environment Directorate gave permission to trap bears, and two bears were killed. Track snow is very important when felling bears. When you wait and the snow disappears, it becomes very difficult. How, though, can the Minister of Agriculture allow the bottling practices to be seriously tightened from 2015 to today, even outside the bear zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e941	As I said, the constitutional responsibility lies with the Minister of the Environment and the climate. My responsibility is to lift the grazing industry and show the challenges you actually have. Then we have a two-part goal. We need pastures where the grazing animals are priority, and we have predatory areas where the predatory game is priority. What assessments have changed from 2015 to 2018 and 2019, and what basis the Environment Directorate has taken those decisions on, must almost ask the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is responsible for the Environment Directorate. I would like to raise the matter at all times and ask why the assessments have changed, and why it is that one promises predators higher than the grazing animals when there is a conflict in an area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e946	So the ordinary questioning procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-13.ana.ud324e960	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
