ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e47	Two permit applications are available: from the Central Party Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Jenny Klinge from 12 May to 14 May from the representative Trond Giske on study leave from 12 May to 14 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For More and Romesdal: Geir Inge Lien For South-Trondelag: Kristian Torve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e84	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e89	On behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Mona Fagerås, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the need to increase rapidly the extra appropriations for the local government sector during the Corona crisis. I hope the committee can look at it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e96	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e101	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Liv Signe Navarsete, Jenny Klinge, Willfred Nordlund and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to set up a total preparedness commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e106	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e124	At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines will be given with replies after the main speakers of the lots and up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e135	I've had the pleasure of being elected to the people for 16 years. It has been a great privilege and a great honor. I have been to Stortinget and treated a lot of cases, but today I have experienced something new. It is that the government parties made a proposal that concerns their own notification, where they point out that not all parts of the notification are properly identified. The proposal now presented just before the meeting states that the Stortinget asks the government – before its launch – to ensure the impact of all parts of the notification. It is a government task to ensure that the things they come here with are properly investigated, are properly illuminated. That we are going to deal with a matter that the government parties themselves believe is not properly investigated, I believe is irresponsible. I ask that the matter be postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e142	Then the President perceives that a proposal has been made to postpone the matter. The President will then open a comment round from the parties related to that proposal. The first speaker is Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e151	I've had the honour of being elected to the people for a few less years than the representative Battle Violence Vedum, but I'm joining the observation. The parties to the Stortinget, which does not belong to the majority of governments, have now asked for this notification to be dealt with after the review and evaluation of the National Audit Office’s report, which raised fundamental questions about fisheries policy. It's rejected. That was a very well-founded suggestion from the opposition. But now, literally five to twelve – or let's say five to ten – the government parties came up with a proposal that we should debate a controversial announcement for a very important sector for our country, for our coast and for value creation, to make an impact assessment of what we are going to adopt. I fully agree with the proposal of the Central Party. It's irresponsible, and it's actually an expression that there has been a danger around the handling of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e158	The next speaker is Tom-Christer Nilsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e163	It is not in the proposal we have put forward today that we believe that there is not enough investigation of the proposals that seem to have a majority today. At the same time, both the opposition and others have pointed out that there is a desire to have an opportunity to look at the impact of the measures, and the Riksrevision has pointed out that the fundamental issue is the impact assessment of all measures. That is why we have proposed a security mechanism. There's nothing else. We feel that the matter is well resolved, and we are ready to deal with it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e168	The next speaker is Torgeir Knag County.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e173	We support the assessment of postponing the proposal. It might be a historical flash if you choose to deal with the matter anyway. Here the government party admits that they do not understand the consequences of the proposal they have made, and then they invite the Stortinget to make a decision about it. It is difficult to find words about the situation that it sees us in, and I will also encourage the President himself to consider the proposal and whether the Storting is able to make decisions in such a decisive industry for Norway and for the people along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e178	The next speaker is Bengt Rune Strifeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e183	We consider the measures proposed in the communication, as well as the proposals in the vote, to be fully consistent. However, as the representative of Nilsen was concerned: if there are circumstances that may have unintended consequences, we want us to have that security mechanism, and we ask the government to carefully assess the measures in place. The Progress Party will not support a postponement of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e189	The next speaker is Steinar Reiten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e194	It may seem that the opposition has simply misunderstood what is contained in proposal No. 29. Of course, the government parties assume that what is contained in the notification is conclusive. So it is that there is a proposal that will be able to have a majority today, which is not mentioned in the communication. In that case, it should be lacking that one does not ask for those proposals to be examined in a consistent manner. To the SV representative: I would ask him to sit down and read the proposals that SV is promoting in the matter, which are very radical, both for increased shortening by structuring and for a significant quota base to be transferred from sea to coast. SV does not ask for an impact assessment of their proposals, so I expect SV to draw its proposals on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e201	The next speaker is Une Bastholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e206	I can say, on behalf of a party which has a great commitment to the fisheries policy, but which is not in the nutrition committee, that I agree with the proposal of the Central Party. We have responded that the Business Committee has set aside two days to look at a national audit report that we have been waiting for. I also believe that there is little respect for the Riksrevision to have to deal with the matter urgently without even knowing the consequences of what we are going to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e211	The next speaker is André N. Skelstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e216	The basis for this is pretty far back in time, through the investigation into the Eiden committee, and we have an allowance message. So that's what case rapporteur Tom-Christer Nilsen says, that we want to have a safety valve at the proposal that has been promoted by us, that exists here. It is a paradox that one does not ask for an impact assessment of all the SV's proposals. I ask the SV's representative to come back to the debate, and in that case they will be withdrawn. There must be predictability of what is happening in this room. It cannot be a game, and I sincerely hope that we can now get started and settle this matter that the industry has long asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e223	The President has not recorded that several have asked for the floor for the postponement proposal. The President will refer to Section 41 Examination of proposals to postpone or refer the matter back to the Committee: ‘Before the debate on a case is closed, proposals may be made for the matter to be referred back to the Committee or for the Enlarged Bureau’s further examination of the matter to be postponed to a subsequent meeting of the same Grand Duchy. Proposals for deferral of the case to a later Grand Summit must be dealt with immediately and decided by the President.’.» The President notes after this round that there appears to be a majority in the Chamber to deal with the matter, and the matter will be dealt with today. The first speaker is Tom-Christer Nilsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e237	Thank you to my colleagues in the Business Committee for Cooperation and to the Secretariat and the Text Centre for Efforts Beyond the Usual. [[Representatives singing:]] There was a lot of work to be done; But there was fish in the cave, and the body that he wanted to hunt." It's not without reason that Ivar Aasen describes the Northman by the sea and the fishing. It was maybe the fish that made us come here, and it's the fish that has given us security for food and income in times of crisis, and created export income, employment and activity. This country is blessed by nature. We have black gold in the oil, we have blue gold in the hydropower, and in the sea we have the silver silver and the white gold of the cod. The silver and gold of this sea have laid the foundation for our well-being through generations — for employment, for housing — and the community has always taken its toll. It was Bergen's monopoly on the export of fish that gave us Bryggen in Bergen, and it was the archbishop's rights in the fishing that made it possible to build the Nidarosdom. Yes, the fish financed according to the reported Viking tokens as well. It actually ended up in a run of the coast, but in another country. We are blessed, and in the case of water and fish, the eternal resources are as long as we manage them well. But the fisheries are not like the flat offices. It's one of our most dangerous professions. When we experience loss along the coast, fishing vessels are often involved. It may be difficult to understand for someone who takes the bus or the tram home every day, what it is like to sit at home and wait as the sky darkens and the wind rises, and think: Will they come home safely tonight? Therefore, the fishermen and the fishermen's safety and profitability must be at the heart of any fisheries policy. In recent years, fisheries policy has enabled fishermen to make their everyday life safer by investing in vessels and safety. Fisheries policy exists in an interdependence between the objectives of the Marine Resource Act — sustainable, socially viable, contributing to employment and housing. The objectives often move in the same direction, but sometimes in different directions – therefore compromise – and at the bottom of everything there must be three things: the fisherman, sustainability, profitability. Sustainable management of fisheries resources ensures permanent harvesting and the basis for profitability. Wages and salaries ensure activity, employment and housing. Without these two – no activity and employment. The fishing industry has shown a unique ability to convert, from close collapse to an industry that is profitable at all fleet levels today. There has been considerable effort by fishermen and a constant tension between societal requirements and objectives and the need for profitable operation as a basis for activity. We're in a resource management, most people envy us, and they're used as a model. This setting strengthens the system at an essential point. It's a setting where we've listened to the industry by dropping state quota bank and structural extension. The Community strengthens its position through a levy that underlines that the resources are owned by the Community. We get a simpler system and a more comprehensive system through fixed quota shares, the removal of the ladders and the joint fishing authorisation. We get a system where maps and terrain are more consistent when we switch to actual length. We get a more predictable system through the clarification of co-fishing and relapse. We're getting a clearer system. We get a lower entrance ticket to the profession of youth through a new recruitment scheme. It's a setting where we listen to the industry and adapt the system. Several of the amendments also follow up the comments made by the Riksrevision on the management of the allowance system. Someone has arranged to postpone. I would rather say that the Riksrevision report shows that several of the measures should be launched as soon as possible. I assume that the proposals for decisions in the majority voting will be adopted. There will be areas of fisheries policy which are not addressed in the notification and which will be the subject of further proceedings. There I assume that good solutions exist – as always, in dialogue with industry. It's not perfect, it's a compromise. It's not as simple as it should be, because the reasons we're going to take are not easy to reconcile. That is why this is a compromise between the necessary efficiency and the greatest possible activity. Basically, sustainability, value creation, predictability, return to the community, and at the heart of it all – the fisherman.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e269	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e274	You could almost say that you started the day with a pretty big sea battle. It is that in fisheries things are uncertain and unpredictable, and it is weather and wind, but what should be established is that the policy is safe and predictable. Today we have started the day by getting a proposal from the government parties, where they obviously realize that they are about to make a big mistake by forcing through this message. What I'm asking is, what is it really in this message that one can say with a hundred percent certainty is consistent?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e281	As far as I know, most of this message is consistent – in a process that started in 2015 with the appointment of the Eidesen Committee. A NOU was delivered in 2016, and there are large parts of this impact assessment. Additional reports were submitted to it, where key parts of the system were quality assurance. There has also been a consultation of the latter, which is a quality assurance. A wholesale notification was delivered three years later, which also assures the quality of all that is proposed there. So I believe this is well quality assured. But: There are suggestions here, including: from the opposition, which, if adopted, would require a completely different type of quality assurance. I think it makes sense to have such safety valves, so that we are sure that the processes will be good for everyone involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e291	The Riksrevision has come with a rather harsh judgment over Norwegian fisheries policy. It is very rare that the Riksrevision concludes with the criticism ‘Serious’ and not only seriously on a single point, but seriously when it comes to general policy, where one has seen that the policy that has been pursued from 2004 to 2016, which was the period they were looking at, has seen our negative effects on coastal communities. One of the things they pointed to there is the concentration of permissions. Today, in the Chamber, we propose that ownership delimitation be established in the coastal fishing fleet as well. Government party not supported. In what way is it a follow-up to the Riksrevision report?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e296	This has been followed up in the notification and also in replies from the Council of State. The Communication states that one should follow further the concentration of ownership in the coastal fleet to see if it is necessary to impose restrictions on ownership. I would say that when you look at the National Audit Office's report and read about the owner's concentrations it describes, none of the owner's concentrations are in conflict with today's limits in the law. That means that whatever the process, I think there is something you should consider in detail both to ensure that a person makes the right decisions, and not least to ensure that there is a spread of ownership. I share in many ways the concerns of the National Audit Office if there were to be too much concentration of ownership. Therefore, this is something we will follow closely, and it is also stated in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e301	The name of a person whose ear it is called in the expression. But I have to say that now it is frightening in my ears – they are about to go free. For if I listened correctly, the representative Nilsen said that this alarming proposal, proposal No. 29, was in the interest of getting the opposition's proposal distributed. I would like to draw your attention to the proposal for a Decision, III, which a joint committee is behind in the vote. There are strong reactions from the Fishlayer Nord, from Seafood Norway, from the Fishlayer. There are a number of reactions that may not be able to tell the consequences of this. What is the opposition's answer to that is to say, no, then we'll have to make a new proposal. The Government Party and the Advance Party stand on their side. Then my question is, wouldn't it be an advantage to make the proposals consistent before they decide in the Storting, and not afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e308	There is no indication in the proposal that the proposals and measures promoted here are not consistent in the long processes we have had on this. I would like to encourage the chairman of the nutrition committee to start thinking more about the content and less about the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e313	The President will ask Nilsen if he wants to make proposals, because the forgotten president instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e318	Yes, I refer to the proposal on which the right is included, which is not in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e323	The representative Tom-Christen Nilsen then addressed the proposal to which he referred. And then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e330	What we are going to do here today is of great importance to Norway, to the coast, not least to the people who live along the coast and who have done it for a long, long time. Fishing is one of our most traditional industries, but also one of our most important industries, and provides Norway with high incomes. Therefore, the notification of allowances is so important. We're going to decide who, on behalf of the community, is going to manage our finest resource, the fish. It should just be missing that the commitment is not big. This is not the first time the debate on fisheries resources creates temperature. Today's discussion is enough – despite the fact that we start the day with a sea battle – more orderly than when the fishermen and the shipowners in 1890 took up the fist in Trollfjorden under the famous Trollfjord battle. But it's a lot about the same things: the right to fish and distribution between large and small – between us. The Labour Party has a long and proud history of sea and fishing – from Jens Steffensen and the Raw Fish Act, Jens Evensen, who made Norway bigger, Jan Henry T. Olsen, who did not have a single fish to give to the EU, Helga Pedersen, who had to stop blackfishing, to Jonas Gahr Støre, who secured the Barents Sea part-line agreement. We have the best conditions for success along the coast, but unfortunately we are on the wrong track. What happened this morning, which is happening now – what we are doing now – worries me very much. The legitimacy of this debate was already at a juncture, but there was total collapse this morning, on the finish line. I'm sorry, but that's the position's responsibility. Once we have succeeded through history, you have the ability to find solutions in layers. That's why there's been a strong desire for us to come together in this room. Apart from the government being forced to scrap quota banks and the extension of the structural quota of the opposition, there has been very little willingness to reach agreement, and it is reflected in the range of how this government operates the fisheries policy. That doesn't give you stability. When we are going to adopt policies with such great consequences, we have to bring the coast with us. You have to bring with you the organisations, the rapporteurs, they have to have understanding, they have to be on the team – they can't agree. But what we're doing now is lacking credibility. It will always be on the shoulders of these parties, for this will have consequences for a long, long time in the future. The Labour Party has long thought that we should wait until after the Riks revision had submitted its report. It hasn't been the government parties that wanted to listen to, so it doesn't give any more credibility this morning either. For the Riksrevision's findings are quite serious. It points out that central fisheries policy principles are being challenged. It is about getting too strong a concentration of ownership, about fishing-dependent communities that are weakening, and it is about something so serious that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries is criticised for the lack of impact assessment of changes in the quota policy that we are currently pursuing and dealing with. Now we're about to make the same mistakes. I'll say it so strongly: I'm sure the position doesn't know the consequences of what it's doing now. The coast shows you resistance. You should listen, because it's going to be. I'm worried that this development will continue. Coastal communities will be weakened. Big ones get bigger, and small ones get fewer, and it gets harder to get into the industry because of high prices. We were supposed to strengthen the industry. The full-year employment strategy was disappointing — thin with measures and ambitions. How are we going to stop so much fish being sent out of the country without a single Norwegian industrial worker getting into it? What are the measures to strengthen the links between sea and land, to ensure more delivery along the coast? We should send the matter back. The Labour Party has a long history as a captain of the Norwegian fisheries policy, often at sea. We have helped to lift fisheries, and we want to do so still. I just wish we had managed to do it together today and made sure that we raised the coast, strengthened the bond and strengthened the coastal communities. I can quote Marianne, who is the rapporteur in Hammerfest: ‘You cannot continue to do things wrong once you have been informed that this policy does not work as it should. They close their eyes, and do so with knowledge and will." [[...]] Finally, I would like to say that the Labour Party cannot be included in the proposal for Decision III. We will vote against that proposal. I will deal with the proposals that the Labour Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e361	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e368	One of the proposals here is related to the comments of the National Audit Office on strengthening the link between quota and vessel. Connection between quota and vessel is the rule today. The exemption is a leased vessel in the event of a breakdown and in the case of new construction periods, and a leased leased boat in the case of maternity leave and sickness. Removing the last arrangements means that fishermen will lose their active fisherman status in case of disease and birth, removing the first schemes could result in a double economic loss in the event of a breakdown and significantly higher financing costs in the case of new buildings. Why will the Workers' Party in its proposal make it more difficult for fishermen to be sick or have children, why will the Workers' Party increase the loss of fishermen in the event of a breakdown, and why will they reduce the possibility of upgrading and new construction in Norwegian shipyards?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e375	The working party has never wanted to make it harder for people to be sick, have children or what it should be. The Labour Party has stood for a policy that will make it easier for people, no matter what you should end up in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e381	Since we started the negotiations on the quota notification, the Workers' Party's response has always been the ‘Riksrevisionen’ – to wait for the Riksrevisionen. That was the fasit, all the answers. Then we got the Riksrevision report, where they say not least that the co-fishing system has to be scrapped. When the Workers' Party then has the opportunity to be involved in scrapping the co-fishing system, which has been a hidden structuring, which is well received through the Riksrevision report, the Workers' Party continues to stand for this. Then it might seem as if this was the crown jewel when the Workers' Party was in power and had the Minister for Fisheries. Is it, therefore, that the Workers' Party is so heavy to remove a co-fishing scheme that has definitely led to a structuring below 11 metres? Why does the Workers' Party want to continue to have the co-fishing system?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e388	Unlike the representative of Skkelstad, we are actually concerned with what is in the Riksrevision report. That is why we want to postpone the matter. It is then natural that it is the control committee that deals with it, and then you get some guidance and suggestions from it. We in the Labour Party know that we have managed the fisheries policy for a long time, but unlike this government, we are humble and will listen to the debates that are taking place. But going in and just starting to rule without having a proper examination of the proposals that come from the Riksaudition is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e393	During the period following the submission of the notification of allowances, opposition parties have had time to coordinate and present an overall alternative policy on which they can go to elections in 2021. Once the committee's term of office has been presented, it is clear to everyone that this has not happened. The Centre Party and the SV jointly promote a proposal to seek out a mechanism whereby the purchase and sale of ships and associated allowances are to be replaced by a concession system, whereby the award of the concession is to be determined on the basis of ‘closeness to resources and competences’, which must now mean. SV proposes to increase the abbreviation to 50 pst. by structuring all fleet groups, discharge the obligation to provide cod trawlers and transfer the entire quota base to the coastal fleet over time. Does the representative Myrseth agree that these proposals are suitable for creating uncertainty about the framework conditions for Norwegian fishing industry at any government change and can she already contribute to predictability of the industry by ensuring that the proposals of the Centre Party and the SV will not be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e402	I am very pleased with the cooperation between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV in this matter. I'm sure that if you had used our suggestions and our direction as template, it would have been a strength for the coast. I'm pretty sure there'll be a much better atmosphere between these three parties if we -- hopefully -- form government together in 2021, than it's obvious between today's government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e407	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e412	Today, we are addressing a growing message about a quota system for increased value creation and a forward-looking fishing industry. The Norwegian quota system has grown over decades through constant adaptations and initiatives to address changes in resource base, industry and society. The current system of allowances has therefore become both complex and debated, and there is a need to simplify the system and make it more efficient, flexible, time-wise and forward-looking. The fisheries and seafood industry is one of the most important industries in Norway, after oil and gas. The Marine Resource Act states that the wild marine resources lie within the community in Norway and the aim of the law is to ensure a sustainable and socially viable management of the wild marine resources and their genetic material and to contribute to ensuring employment and settlement in coastal communities. Fishing and other resources that can be harvested by the sea are national resources and will then be managed. It shall be based on a knowledge-based regulatory regime that ensures optimal extraction of individual stocks. There have been different challenges in coastal communities along the coast across the country. As the Riksrevision points out in its report, the fishing industry is also affected by external circumstances. The overall development of social efficiency has had an impact on the number of fishermen and vessels. At the same time, structural changes in society, such as: relocation affected employment and settlement in coastal communities. The cause of the challenges is probably rather complex, but is also largely influenced by the nature of the fisheries policy pursued. Norwegian fishing industry has had a formidable development over the past 30 years. It has gone from a strongly subsidized industry to a fully regulated and nearly non-subsidised industry that claims well in global competition. Regulations on fisheries are necessary and there is a need to revise current regulatory models. It will provide predictability and stability, provide the basis for better business planning and encourage long-term investment by industry, fishermen and fishing owners. The Progress Party sees the importance of having a varied fishing fleet and considers diversity, proximity, flexibility, financial resources and stable framework conditions as positive for competition. The National Audit Office has done a thorough job and reviewed Norwegian fisheries policy, which has been conducted for the period from 2004 to 2018. During this period and during the previous period, fisheries were transformed into a system that is better adapted to the resource base and can ensure the profitability of the fishing fleet. The changes during this period have led to increased profitability of the fishing fleet, while at the same time established fisheries policy principles have been challenged. We now consider it appropriate to carry out a comprehensive review of the fisheries policy over and over again, as has been done in the past, so as to avoid unintended consequences. There is currently good profitability in all ship groups, and there is also good profitability compared to other industries. A profitable fishing fleet is a prerequisite for socio-economic profitability and for the industry to contribute to employment and residence in coastal communities. The challenges we face, however, are how we can create more full-year jobs and profitability for industry, and then a varied fleet structure will be one of the most important pieces to ensure raw material access to the land industry. The quota message provides for a continued varied fleet structure and will more significantly prevent quotas from moving between vessel groups in the future. At the same time as the quota notification, the Progress Party put forward a strategy for full-year jobs in the fishing industry to move more of the processing and value creation home – this in order to help strengthen the framework conditions, contribute to more production and value creation and create more full-year jobs in industry. In order to ensure predictable raw material access to the land industry, it is essential that measures to balance seasonal fluctuations are applied, and a well-functioning fresh fish system is one solution, live catch and storage one solution and possibilities for increased use of frozen raw material another solution. Live capture and storage are factors that contribute to the smoothing of seasonal fluctuations, and it also improves the control of the whole value chain, leading to increased quality and value creation. The Progress Party therefore also changed the legislation while we were in government, so that we were able to expand the possibility of live storage from 12 to 20 weeks. Some have made provision for deferral of the processing of the notification of allowances following the examination of the report of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office criticises the practices previously carried out in the Norwegian fisheries policy, under changing governments and across party boundaries. Unfortunately, some of these conditions cannot be reversed. On the other hand, the notification of allowances responds to some of the conditions pointed out by the National Audit Office. At the same time, the entire Riksrevision report will be carefully examined at Stortinget to the autumn, so that we will have a thorough review of Norwegian fisheries policy this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e437	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e442	It is good that the representative is looking forward to the major debate on fisheries policy to be conducted in depth until the autumn. That's the one we should have now, but unfortunately it won't be exactly what we wanted. I have some questions, because today, the other opposition parties have presented some quite significant and important points that are not least important in the representative's home country, Finnmark. One is an investigation into the reintroduction of the 28-meter limit. So we know that there have been some conflicts in the representative's home state lately, and it's about the area and the size of the small boat. Is it the case that the representative belongs to an opposition party and can support the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e449	The progress party is an opposition party, but we are a constructive opposition party that wants to provide predictability and stability for the industry. We want to contribute to the continued existence of living coastal communities. One of the most important measures that can contribute to the existence of living coastal communities is the creation of full-year rural workplaces providing a level playing field for individual farms.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e454	Some of us have received this letter from Sjømat Norway and the Fiskarlag Nord. They show a great deal of concern for proposal 3, which takes into account a scheme where you have to merge the 21-meter fleet with the 28-meter fleet. Why does the Progress Party want to be involved in arranging to structure the fleet between 21 meters and 28 meters? And what kind of consequences will this have for fleet development, agriculture, ownership and achievement of the objectives of the Marine Resource Act? Does the Progress Party share the concern of the Fiskarlag and Sjømat Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e459	Proposal 3 seeks to harmonise actual lengths and lengths and will contribute more to avoiding the movements of quotas that have been made, inter alia. while the Center Party has been in government. More watertight bulkheads are being taken between the groups of vessels and contribute to greater stability between the groups of vessels.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e465	In this case, the Progress Party is not a real opposition party, it is a government support wheel. So we're just going to look at the lines right over here. They're probably not going to take any lines on the government party, either. My question is, in fact, that one here has been behind a message that from Finnmark's point of view will have major negative consequences – it's just reading the Riksrevision's report on it. There is a proposal to reintroduce the 28-meter limit, and there is a proposal to limit the possibilities for large boats to fish within the fjord and baseline. Can the representative give me a good reason why a representative of the people of Finnmark should not support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e472	If larger boats are to be allowed to fish within the fjord lines and baseline, the quota notification does not directly affect them. There will be a thorough debate on how to regulate individual fisheries and groups of vessels after dealing with the quota notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e477	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e482	The centre part has a fishing heart along the whole coast. Either it is Båtsfjord, Hasvik, Florø, Eigersund, Mandal or Henningsvær – the fish is the basis for many important, beautiful communities along our coast. The center part has a heart for fishing in the north and south, and we have a commitment for those who have big boats, and for those who have small boats. Fishing is an important industrial policy for us. It is also district policy. But fishing is something more, because fishing is about who we are, who we are like people. I believe that people in Hedmark and Uppland also identify with the values and culture that we have along the coast. Therefore, the matter we are dealing with today is particularly important. Many have pointed to the Riksrevision report. He says that those who fish are making more money. It's isolated well. But then the Riksrevision report says that the fleet structure is less varied, that a struggle with recruitment increases foreign ownership. Coastal communities and fishing communities lose. That's what the Center Party means we have to take seriously. And when we now have the Riksrevision report on the table when we deal with this matter, it's not because the government party and the Progress Party wanted it, but because the whole process was postponed as a result of the coronavirus. That's why we've come to that situation. If these parties had received their will, this message had been processed long before anyone knew what was in the Riksrevisions report. Now I notice that it doesn't make any meaningful impression on the four parts, what it says. It's right, as many claim, that the industry has asked for clarification. But these clarifications are primarily about knowing that the most insane proposals to the government are being put away – for example. there is no government allowance bank. It has created uncertainty – uncertainty about the duration of structural quotas. It's this insecure industry that points out first and foremost. And I have to say, I'm glad it won't be a government allowance bank. So here are four fisheries ministers, Harald Tom Nesvik from the Progress Party, Geir Inge Sivertsen, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Odd Emil Ingebrichtsen, fighting for us to have a government quota bank in Norway, that the Ministry of Finance should be the big quota owner. We've asked them, and they've confirmed it, they believe that. I'm very glad it doesn't happen like that. I also notice that this is a big message with many fathers, but it's not like they're fighting to take responsibility for the fathership. This is a bad message, and it's a policy that goes in the wrong direction. Some of the things that surprise me are that when the Progress Party is in and out of a state quota bank, they have to agree to introduce a new fee, a new fiscal charge for fishing. And it is something completely new that the Progress Party has begun to introduce new charges. Not only do they increase the existing fees, but they can find new ones. In the last year, they've had 250 million. kr i extra CO 2 tax on fisheries. It's going to compensate for someone for a limited period of time, but now it's going to be 100 million. kr in a new fee for fishing. And this is a start. It is even the Government Party and the Advance Party that are so busy that they write in a brackets in the decision that this must be put in place quickly and should be in place from 2021. So this is the handshake of an industry that lives with insecurity attached to the pandemic: more fee. I don't think that's fair. So today we have got this most absurd statement, that one should come out with the proposals. But no one has been able to say what the four parties think is not well enough. If you look at the proposals from the opposition, and the proposals from the Central Party are behind – and I take up proposal No. 20 – one will see that all those who ask for a return to the government ask for an evaluation, ask for a payment. It's not like we're just saying, "That's the way it should be." A proposal was made by the representative for Riding. I don't know what he reacted to in the proposal from the Central Party, but could it be said that we ask the government to "outgreia" and "assess"? Because that's great, that's what we have to do. We need to get knowledge. The centre party is concerned that the need for capital in the fisheries sector has been so great that it is only increasing, for many fishing communities now feel that they are standing and tilting on the edge. That's what the Center Party has, and that's what the involvement of the plural government is missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e504	The representative of Geir Pollestad has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e511	Fisheries policy engages – even down to Jären – and one sees the commitment also in Finnmark, among others. in the Gamvik centre party, who has chosen to report a majority of the police. Is this new policy from the Central Party, is there something behind the Central Party, that if you don't get a political impact on your view, you report political opponents?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e516	I understand that the representative is surprised that I from Jären am involved in this, but it is one of the great weaknesses of this message, that she is about important themes, such as cod fishing in the north, but one has almost forgotten that we also have a large fish on other species, and that we have fishing in the country further south – on the South, in the Oslo soil and on the West. There is an almost forgotten message in this message. So I think that one thing, the conclusion that one has gone to the stage of reporting, is a frustration at what is being led by the fisheries policy. One feels that the future of his society stands and vibrates. One feels that this is about to go completely wrong. One feels that one is not heard in the capital by representatives like Strifeldt, who sometimes seem to have forgotten what state he represents, and is more busy getting money into the Ministry of Finance than being able to keep the fishermen in the north. That's when this kind of rash comes in. I think we should write it in the frustration and involvement account.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e523	The report of the National Audit Office on the quota system in the sea and coastal fleet describes a fisheries policy that has been largely developed by the Red-Green Stoltenberg II Government and largely continued by the Solberg Government. This applies, inter alia. a. the system of time-limited structural quotas to adapt the number of vessels and active fishermen to the resource base. Then it becomes strange that the light first rises to the representative Pollestad in a debate in the nation, where he writes: ‘For example, listen to what the Riksrevision has found out: the ownership of a vessel with allowances is collected on fewer hands. The structure of fisheries is less varied. Vessels are smaller and larger.» Does the representative Pollestad agree that the system of time-limited structural quotas will help reverse this development when the time limit expires from 2027 onwards? If not, what is the Central Party's alternative to the structural policy they themselves have managed in the government, which has ensured good profitability throughout the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e533	My commitment is not in defending the Stoltenberg II government. There was a central government party in it, I think it was a government that did a lot that was good for the country. But now we are in 2020, we are discussing fisheries policy for the future. We have received a report from the National Audit Office saying that the objectives of the fisheries policy have, to a small extent, been achieved, developments are going in the wrong direction. We notice an emerging uprising along the coast. Then I'm more busy defending the coastal communities that say and experience this, than driving such a bottleneck points out, whether it's Bondevik, Stoltenberg or Solberg who's to blame for this. When it comes to structural quotas, we're busy with what we've been busy about all along: the gamblers who've been agreed on will be stuck. We are pleased that, in this process, we have been able to stop both the government's plan for the government's quota bank and the extension of the structural quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e540	We probably all understand that there can be temperature around Norway when people feel frustrated. Otherwise, I did not hear that the representative Pollestad actually replied to Mr Strifeldt's question whether he agreed or disagreed with that action. The representative Pollestad and his party have put a great deal of love on the co-fishing system. At the same time, he points out that he is concerned about ownership concentration. Then it's a little bit amazing that he's so happy with the co-fishing model, which creates a greater degree of ownership concentration, and where we see that 43 pst. already has a co-fishing with itself. Then it is a little strange that the Pollestad party, even after the Riksrevision, is still standing by the proposal that is being promoted today, that the co-fishing system should continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e547	Firstly, when it comes to the matter of notification, as far as I understand it, the Gamvik centre party is behind it. I know it's one of our local teams with a very big fishing commitment. I myself am a member of the Time Center Party. We have no plans to do so, but there is an inland municipality without a coastline. This gets the Gamvik center party to decide by itself, but I don't think it should be interpreted in the worst sense, but as an expression of an engagement. When it comes to the co-fishing system, we don't think the system is perfect, we think she has weaknesses. For this reason, we have asked for an alternative link to how we can make it more targeted and in line with what was intended, and that the co-fishing system should not evolve into a rather rough structureing system, because it does not have our purpose. As I said, we would like to make changes to the synopsis system that is in force.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e555	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e560	Today is not about the ego or honor of single representatives in this room. He's not about the special interests of the owners of the ships, he's not about the honor of people who work in bureaucracy, department or anything like that. Today we are talking about coastal communities, the people who live along the coast, and those who come from the coast – about our coastal culture. The coast is the reason why there is a Norway. It was the rich sea that led to the first busses here at least 10,000 years ago. The coast and the fish are the basis of our culture, the coast is our honor and our power. Today is about how we will develop this further in a new time. It should have been about how Norway, on the basis of our scattered coastal busnets, can facilitate a fishing where quality is seen in the high-seat, where local knowledge, tradition, crafts, technology and industry are brought together in a strategy to create the world's leading seafood – not in terms of quantity, because the sea provides no more than it can provide, but in terms of quality. It should have been about young people, future fishermen, how to get the necessary knowledge and access to fisheries. It should have been about places like Torsvåg, Skjervøy, Bømlo, Vardø, Søgne, Loppa, etc. It should have been a wise day. But there is nothing wise in the plurality of Stortinget today. Today's decision strengthens a development where the right to fish ends up on fewer and fewer hands. By voting down our proposal to introduce ownership restrictions, they welcome a development where fishing resources are to be taken from the coastal communities and end up in the hands of listed companies. With today’s decision, they reinforce a trend where young people have to look a long way to get into fishing with their own quota vessels — unless one has a mom and dad with a lot of money, or unless one has access to investors and good banking connections. Recruitment schemes for the majority of young people along the coast: the sea is not for them; it's for those who have the most money. Today's decision strengthens a development in the movement of fish from the coast to more and more vessels, which are increasingly in need of coastal communities. The Government Party's solution, with the Progress Party on draw, on the structure quota system, will effectively move the quantity upwards to the largest fleet. Today's decision also reinforces developments in fishing as own vessels with quota but which are not fishermen. Just think of whether this should have been the case in agriculture, that it should be others who owned agriculture than those who work there. Or take for the sake of taxi nutrition. It's out of the question. But unlike these areas, our oceans are common to all – there has one permit. When they don't want to limit the size of their fleets, with enormous capacity and engine power, they're allowed to fish – mostly in distant rocks and until May, most often in the April fjords – then this is a clear message to people along the coast: it's not your day, it's the other one's day. The report from the Riksrevision is a very hard verdict. He simply says that the wages before fishing have fallen on fewer and fewer hands and that coastal communities are losing on this. It's been a negative development, and it's being devalued by the government party. For a bubble they live in. It has led to enormous engagement along the coast. All the fisheries-dependent states have asked the government to stop, breathe, wait and read carefully the Riksrevision report and get us back on track of what was supposed to be the goal of the fisheries policy – which has been, gathering for the whole of the Storting for a long, long time before the new wine came and changed it. We have thousands of people who have signed the agreement, and many of the most important fisheries dependent municipalities have asked for it – but it won't be listened to. This is a sad day, but it's the beginning of a mobilization. We must now start the mobilization towards 2021 and change the policy that is being pursued by this government, so that this comes back to the premise of the coastal people. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e588	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e595	One of your suggestions is that you want to remove the ship-to-quota link. The proposal to prohibit the sale of vessels with fishing permits is, in fact, that. Today's arrangement, where a boat with its quota is owned by a fisherman, can be a story of a family father who owns a boat, has been loaned on a boat, with security in a boat with fishing permission in a closed group. The proposal significantly eliminates or reduces this security and may result in the ship being in practice not negotiable and the bank not having the security of the loan. This is a family with a house, home and safety in the boat with a quota base. If you had a majority in favour of this proposal, you and SV could be involved in ruining a family, making them uncertain about homes and homes, and not least weakening their income base. What do you think about exposing this family and the family father to such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e602	The President will remind the representative that the speech should be directed through the President, by saying ‘representative Knag Fylkesnes’ instead of ‘you’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e607	I saw there were several people here who jerk their foreheads when it comes to what the question is actually about. I see nothing in our proposals that would weaken the link between the vessel and the quota. Rather, the developments of this government have directly challenged the link between vessel and quota. It was in 2015, when one had a so-called simplification of the participation law, the big steps towards disconnecting from the quota came, where one could split, where one could move parts of society independently of the ship. And as the Riksrevision also points out, there is a very dangerous development in which the vessel and the quota are being disconnected. To me, what the proposal the representative is actually looking for is incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e612	The National Audit Office points out that over the past 30 years, the development has led to fewer coastal landings, including during the government of SV. The representative, Knag Fylkesnes, has repeatedly called for a more labour-intensive fishing fleet, and he also wants to move quota shares from seagoing fleets to coastal areas. After all, it will help to increase the seasonal peak in the first quarter and reduce raw material availability for off-season industries. Is there a policy SV would like to pursue, which might lead to fewer farms, fewer full-year rural workplaces and, in fact, lower profitability for ships?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e621	I thank you for the question. The situation is the opposite: those who supply raw materials to the agricultural industry today are the close coastal fleet. It's the ones that deliver in the absolute greatest mon. So it's quite right, as the representative says, that much of this fishing takes place in season. But for the ocean-going fleet also happens about 40 pst. of the fishing activities carried out in the middle of the season. And that's why we want to move the quantity to the coastal fleet, and also to periodically, create different types of bonus schemes, so that one gets fish throughout the year. Because, as the representative may not have gotten along, the coastal fleet is in a very different state today than it was 30–40–50 years ago, with different types of ideas about the Shark fleet. One is in a completely different state today to actually fish the whole year. And what separates these boats from the seagoing ones, which depend on freezer storage, is that they actually deliver raw materials that the land industry needs. For a representative from the Progress Party in Finnmark, this should be open, but it is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e628	On 28 April the Riksrevision presented its report on the quota system in the sea and coastal fleet. Both the opposition parties and the government parties believe that there is a very important report to be taken seriously. The Minister for Fisheries has already announced that he will carry out a thorough review of what is said there. Then we have noticed that the opposition parties – with the exception – have demanded that the processing of the notification of allowances be postponed to after the national audit report has been reviewed. Words that arrogance has been used. Does the representative of Knag Fylkesnes agree that it is arrogant of the opposition not to listen to the management of the Fiskearlag and Fiskebot, who asks for the quota notification to be dealt with now – and that it will not be postponed after the Stortinges have dealt with the Riksrevision report?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e635	After all, it is arrogant to ignore the tens of thousands of people who have signed the provocation that it has to be postponed, to ignore 29 municipalities, or maybe it is 32, who have asked for it to be postponed – the most fishing-dependent municipalities – and to ignore all the states that live in the most fisheries-dependent communities. Many parts of the fishing industry have also asked for it to be postponed, so that one can get back the course that the Christian People's Party has also been behind now, that the fisheries policy should contribute to the employment and settlement of coastal communities, and that – as the Riksrevision so correctly points out – has actually been negative for coastal communities with this government and the policy that has been pursued over time. And it has accelerated the recent years with disconnection, geographical constraints, etc., etc. That one does it -- with so little plural -- it's really arrogance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e640	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e646	I would like to thank the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party for their good cooperation on the quota notification. Mr Nilsen deserves special thanks as rapporteur of the case. Fishing is a carrier in the Norwegian economy and for housing and business along the coast. Large seas and many fjords give Norway good conditions for harvesting directly from the sea. For centuries, fishing has been an important part of the income base and culture across the coast. In fact, Norwegian fishing history goes all the way back to the Stone Age. Over the last 20 to 30 years, fishing has evolved into a particularly important economic industry in Norway. After oil and gas, seafood, including farming, is Norway’s largest export industry. We are the largest in fisheries in Europe, and we are the ninth largest in the world. It's impressive. A major cause of fishing success in Norway and a prerequisite for further growth is the sustainable management of maritime resources and their conservation in our clean and productive marine areas. Because fishing affects marine ecosystems, strict regulation is necessary so that future generations can also eat fish from Norwegian sea areas. Besides, the fish we eat must be clean. That is why the fight for clean seas, for the fisheries of the 'Fishing for Litter', beach clearance, etc. important contributors. Norway has had a global leadership role in the fight for clean seas, and the government has, among other things, Launched a dedicated programme of assistance to maritime waste management. If the fish is not clean, no one will eat our fish, and it will not be as attractive as today. Pure fish are important for the profitability of the industry. During the processing of the quota message in Stortinget, we in the Left have been engaged in close dialogue with industry. We have held several meetings and two major seminars, both in Bergen and in Tromsø, where actors from all over the industry and relevant research environments have participated. It became early clear that the government’s proposal on state allowance stocks was a bad idea. An overall diet has been very clear on this, and that's why we have, of course, listened to it. It is also determined that there will be no extension of the structural quota, as the original proposal suggested. The notification maintains the obligation of activity and the obligation to provide services, and the participation law remains a bottom line in the fishing industry. The guiding principle of fishing by fishermen and ensuring that fisheries are an important regional industry is important to the Left. We are concerned to ensure light in the houses and are pleased that coastal fishing is being strengthened somewhat, among other things. Now we're devoting open group from the top instead of taking it from the coast. We are also satisfied that the processing standard for cod is increased from 70 pst. to 75 pst. It will provide increased activity and jobs along the coast. Although the Left has wanted to strengthen the coastal fleet somewhat, we believe it is important that we do not frighten the fragile balance between the coast and the jet too much. Indeed, the trawl is very important for the value creation and processing plants along our coast. It also contributes to living coastal communities by securing many new jobs that create great values for our country. Fishing is today a desirable profession with good profitability. It is also one of Norway’s most exciting industries — technological, forward-looking and export-oriented. In the left, we are committed to ensuring good recruitment to the fishing profession, as well as maintaining good traditions in a forward-looking industry by means of a steady transfer of competences. In the examination of the quota notification, we have made it easier for new recruiting in the industry, and we have put in place a new recruitment system that will make it easier for young people to become fishermen. This includes, inter alia: an allowance supplement is granted to fishermen under 30 years of age in an open group and a quota bonus is established for fishermen under 30 years of age with their own closed group vessels. Equality in society has been a matter of course, and in fisheries we still have a job to do. The last numbers from the fishermen show that only 3.4 pst. by active fishermen in Norway are women. Few women in the fishing industry are involved in creating differences in the development of wealth and income in society. That is why an active gender equality policy must be pursued, and that is why I am pleased that we have a large majority in the United Kingdom today asking the government to draw up a strategy for better equality in fisheries. The notification of quotas is the first complete review of the quota system for fisheries. A review of the quota system has been necessary to improve the predictability, profitability and safety of the industry. Simplification is needed in the complex allowance systems, so that it becomes an open and functioning industry. Unlike the impressions of multiple sites, work on the notification of allowances has been very thorough and has gone over several years. Already four to five years ago, work began on the report of the Eidesen Committee. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have agreed to view the industry as a whole based on this work, thus contributing to predictability. Unfortunately, what a fisheries policy would have had by a red-green majority hangs in the air after today's debate. When the Riksrevision recently presented its report on fisheries, efforts were made to train and postpone the quota notification. I mean it gets a little bit searched. There is no news in the Riksrevision report for the industry or others who have followed fisheries closely. The information provided in the report is already known. Furthermore, operators in the industry themselves, such as the Fiskerlag and the Sildelag, have underlined their desire to reach a conclusion on the allowance notification now. They don't want a new postponement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e682	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e687	I have a question for the representative, and it is quite simple: what will be better for the coastal communities in the representative's area, the North-Trundellag, with the new quota notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e692	To say it like this, things are related. It was important that, during the budgetary procedure last autumn, a management grant was put in place, which was very important, among other things. for my territory. The second thing that will be extremely important for my area is that it is predictability, a predictability that I find difficult to see in the opposition's proposals. That predictability benefits not least my territory. It also gives predictability to get more fish into the few farms we have, and I see that the representative's party might not be as concerned about it. I think that will be absolutely necessary in order to generate growth in my area, as Adelsten Iversen's representative asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e699	The fact that the red-green fisheries are in blue, everyone sees that they are not – it's on paper. There is a collection of a rather different alternative policy, which does not lead to fishing rights on ever fewer hands, for which the Left has become the voice of – materialised in the form of a representative from the North-Tronde Team, who has several important fisheries-dependent communities, and who will lose quite massive weight on this. My question is really about proposal No. 3, which will lead to large quantities of fish moving upwards to the largest fleet, a fleet of which there is very little in the North Throne Team, in the county of the representative. Was the representative aware of the consequences of that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e706	As the representative Knag Fylkesnes is also aware, it would not have been possible to continue with the type that we had before, if we had not received close shots between them. What's amazing, I have to say, is that you don't want to create the transparency that's been necessary to seal those shots in order to get predictability. It's true that we don't have so many large vessels in my area. But much of what is here will also lead to greater predictability in my area, which is relatively well occupied with fishermen, not least on the Namdal coast, in the Flatanger area and in the rest of the Fosen area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e713	If the representative thinks negatively, that's quite right. Everything's pretty good. The nurse may be good, and it may be bad. For Nord-Trøndelag's part, it's the guide to this bad guy. The reality of proposal No. 3 is that when we go over to a system of actual length, which SV supports – we're concerned with fixing fixed bulkheads – the question is, how do you establish this when the structural quota system runs out? Do you want to add the quota to the new groups? How do you do this? Since one does this after the new groups have been set, we get a migration, to use a fish expression, up in the group, which will mean that they in the largest fleet are the ones who want to sit back with the greatest gain of this scheme. Was the representative aware of this – or is it like one who has a strong impression in this room, that the government party only adopts something they don't understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e722	I don't think the representative is among the people you connect to getting together in voice, if that's what he meant. I think it's a clear assumption that we have predictability. Predictability is not negative, predictability is actually getting this in place. It can't be like it's been now, that it's expanded to come up with a different quota base or another size. It had to end that. The representative, Knag County, has begun to be concerned with the limitation of ownership or that ownership has fallen on fewer hands. Then I think it's amazing that he'll swim in the same sea as the other two red-green parties, like for example. will not do anything about the co-fishing system, which may have meant the greatest degree of ownership control in the smallest group. I think that's a little amazing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e731	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e736	Eleven months have soon passed since the so-called quota notification was presented, and in the scarce year that has passed, there has been a lively debate, sometimes at a high temperature, on the content of the notification and the proposals that were promoted there. I dare say that it is rare in Stortinget's work on a single matter that processes of hearings, dialogue meetings, internal discussions between the parties and public change of words in the press are so extensive. That is good, because through the broad and informed exchange that has taken place, it has taken note of which of the proposals in the Communication are supported by industry and against which an overall industry has warned. When Stortinget today deals with the setting of the quota notification, there are two aspects I want to highlight as particularly important, from our point of view in the Christian People's Party. Firstly, the majority of the Committee supports government proposals that will simplify the quota system and make it more transparent. This applies, for example: proposals to introduce fishing authorisations with associated fixed quota factors for all vessels and to move to actual length as the sole yardstick for the coastal fleet longitudinal groups. A market place for the exchange of allowances will then be established within the quota year, which will allow for the optimisation of fishing activities for each company at the ship level. Secondly, the majority of the Committee continues the tradition of listening to the industry when key fisheries policy issues need to be resolved. Therefore, we have agreed not to introduce a State allowance stock. Nor will an extension of the time limit for structural quotas of 15 years be allowed. Both decisions have been taken following unambiguous advice from the industry and not as a result of pressure from the opposition. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I am very pleased with the agreement reached on these points after an open and good dialogue between the government parties, the Progress Party and political leadership in the Ministry of Fisheries. In the days before and after the Business Committee gave its decision on the quota notification, there has been a high-level demand from the opposition to postpone the processing of the quota notification by the Storting on account of the Riksrevision report on the quota system in coastal and marine fisheries. It does not correspond to what the industry itself wants. Both the management of the Norwegian Fisheries Team and the fishing boat have clearly stated that the quota notification must be dealt with by Stortinget now and that there is nothing in the Riksrevision report that requires that the treatment be postponed. It will receive a thorough treatment in its own time. The report describes a development that is a result of the broad line of fisheries policy that has been widely agreed since the beginning of the 2000s. The Stoltenberg II Government introduced the structural quotas system with a time limit in 2005 and its purpose was to adapt the number of vessels and active fishermen to the resource base to maintain the profitability of the fishing industry. This policy has been pursued by the Solberg Government under various fisheries ministers, and the result is that there is currently very good profitability in all fleet groups, compared with most other industries. In the Committee's position on the notification of allowances, which was issued on 30 April, it is clear that no extension of structural quotas of 15 years will be open. As a result, the initial time limit is maintained and the structural quotas will be returned to all vessels in the respective large-scale fleet groups from the end of 2027 onwards. Thus, the high-lying claims of the opposition batches on the centralisation and concentration of the quota base on fewer vessels are far on the road without ground. At the end of the time limit for the structural quotas, this process will be reversed in line with what has been the premise since the red-green government opened for time-limited structuring in 2005. I would also like to emphasise that the Government of the quota notification proposes to abandon the system of allowable length as an important measure to stop the drift against the concentration of quotas on larger vessels in the coastal fleet. By introducing the actual length as the only measure for the length groups in the Finnmark model, that development is effectively stopped. There has been a strong increase in the price of allowances in recent years. This applies in particular to local groups less than 11 metres in the coastal fleet, where operators have been able to co-fish with themselves since 2011. The National Audit Board points out that the co-fishing system has contributed significantly to the increase in the quota price because it has actually acted as a structural scheme without any delimitation. As a countermeasure to this development, initiated by the red-green batches, which introduced the scheme in 2011, the Government proposes to wind up the system of co-fishing with itself through a food-funded mastering scheme. A period of grace shall be granted until 31 December 2025 for the conversion of those currently engaged in joint fishing with themselves. Structure within this fleet group is not open, but real co-fishing will continue to be allowed. All in all, in the Christian People's Party, we note that the conclusions of the majority of the Business Committee are largely in line with the Christian People's Party's programme and the Granavolden platform. We therefore see an additional reason to thank the parties that make up the majority, for good dialogue and good solutions for the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e766	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e772	There are quite a few who are surprised, and perhaps disappointed, about the Christian People's Party and what line they have put on in this matter. Here, even several times, the importance of the sea fishing fleet has been highlighted, to which particular attention has been paid. In order to meet other organisations, the opposition's proposal to address the 28-meter threshold might have to be considered, but it is up to the representative of Reiten to decide if it is important. There are concerns along the coast for weakened coastal communities, increasing resources on fewer hands. It would have been a good idea to listen now – if you don't want to listen to the opposition – to the Fiskarlag Sør, Fiskarlag Nord, Nordland Fylkes Fiskarlag, Pelagic Association, the Coastal Fisheries Team, rapporteurs from coastal communities throughout the country, but the representative, Reiten, would not. Then my question is: is the representative of Reiten sure that he knows the consequences of what he is doing on behalf of the entire Christian People's Party when he chooses not to listen to all these important voices along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e779	The representative Reiten never acts on his own. He's dealing with the Christian People's Party program. The Christian People's Party programme says that we should have a varied fishing fleet with vessels of all sizes. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has actively supported the proposal in the communication to move away from the length of the shoreline, in order to prevent a drift towards increasing and fewer vessels as the overall quota. After long and thorough consideration, we have also made it clear that we cannot go to continue the system of co-fishing with ourselves in a closed group of less than 11 meters, because it has led to an explosion in quota pricing. Those who have used the scheme have a lot of good news, but in many ways it can be said that they are pulling up the ladder. Young people in an open group who want to go on page B will no longer have that opportunity. Yes, here we have taken action that we absolutely believe is in the best interests of the coastal communities, to ensure a varied fleet even in the future that can serve facilities of different sizes along the whole coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e786	Proposal III of the setting indicates how the structural quotas should be allocated when the time limit is reached. It was a proposal that the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party were also involved in when the setting was submitted. So we've got a number of feedbacks that it's very unclear what consequences it has, and that this proposal can potentially make the quota go up a lot, to a much larger vessel than it has been. The Christian People's Party and the Government Party and the Progress Party have stood on proposal III so far. My question is short and good: is what is in proposal III, the Christian People's Party's policy, or should the Christian People's Party rather support proposal No. 30, which establishes the principle, but does the government actually ask to sort this out, so that we know the consequences before we make a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e791	On pages 63 and 64 in Meld. St. 32 for 2018–2019, A quota system for value creation — A forward-looking fishing industry, a part of the model is written about the set-aside of structural quotas for the respective vessel groups. It says that a model is based on model 1, so there's going to be a relapse in relation to the old length groups. Proposal III proposes to do so in a way that is, at least, not clarified in the communication. That is precisely why the majority today is proposing a proposal asking for impact assessments of the things we are proposing that are not precisely described or defined in the communication. We have the best conscience in the world for us to make proposals when we say at the same time that this needs to be verified consistently before it is implemented, as it says in the proposal we are promoting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e796	Finally, the structural quotas are still coming back for a while, and it is clear that that decision will not be overdue. It has no legitimacy. It has no broad support. It won't last long. One can guess which one is going to be right now. It's not going to stand. I am stunned by a statement from the representative of Reiten that proposals from SV were not consistent. Then I wonder what he's aiming for. Is it e.g. our proposal on the obligation of cod trawlers? That would have been done in three rounds. Three commissions have worked it out and come to our conclusion. Is that one of them? Or is it the proposal to reintroduce the 28-metre limit for the coastal fleet, which is why we now have the sharp conflicts along the coast, and which have our systems for a long, long time? It's simply the fading out of it that leads to the problems you're currently having. Or is that our abbreviation? There the government suggests going all the way down to 10 pst, while we suggest having 50 pst. Is that what he's aiming for?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e803	Yes, that's initially the last proposal, because there SV suggests shortening 50 pst. in all fleet groups by structuring and using the entire pot for recruitment quotas. For example, for the fleet group 15-21 metres, there is very little mention of recruitment at all. Then the question is, when you get that large quota shares at your disposal only for recruitment in that group, is it carefully thought out? No, we certainly don't. When SV only promotes the type of proposal without asking for an inquiry, it stands in stark contrast to the fact that SV in other contexts requires investigations into other issues that are both in the message and that the majority have promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e808	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e813	In this really incredibly important case for the port of Norway, which is also so incredibly important in the history and traditions of Norway, it would have been nice to start a little visionary and even singing – what I would normally have done. But I have to start a little melancholy and dry with just complaining about the process in this case and behind the criticism that several of the business committee's members have been addressing the quota notification. We in the Green Party believe that the Storting should have taken the time to deal with the matter properly. The most critical thing about the process is that the Storting has not been given a real opportunity to comment on the conclusions of the Riksrevision. After the Riksrevisions report was presented on 28 April, the Committee had two days to review a report on which the Riksrevision has spent one and a half years. Such a hurry is completely unnecessary, and to me it is completely irresponsible and incomprehensible. This means that Stortinget delivers a less knowledge-based attitude – it's become very obvious. This weakens confidence in the fisheries policy. This will increase the level of conflict. It is simply bad political craftsmanship from the government parties. This matter had deserved better. The fish has been feeding on the table and life support along the coast for a thousand years. It has created work, income and wealth for generation after generation. That's the way it's going to be for the generations that come after us. But today, active policies are required if we are to preserve the fish as a common resource. The national audit report has pointed out that changes in the quota system have led to less fishing activity in several coastal communities, and for those who have been following the case for some years, it is no surprise. It's not so nice that the activity falls. Let me take a few examples of why: The ownership of vessels with quotas has been concentrated on fewer and fewer hands. Young people who want a fishing professional must raise between 5 and 6 million. kr to purchase rights to fish through allowances. 95 pst. the catches of trawls are frozen on board and thus do not contribute to the necessary raw material for further processing and further processing in Norway. Huge resources are loaded and sent to Poland or China for filleting there, then sent back half the land and ended up in Norwegian freezers and with Norwegian consumers. This development is harmful to both humans and the environment. That's why we needed a fishing reverse operation in Stortinget today. In the coming years, Norway needs to build many new jobs based on renewable resources. We must then ensure that the coastal communities are given access to quotas and catches through responsible and sustainable fisheries management. In addition, it should be a matter of course that renewable resources are processed along our own coast, creating jobs, providing living communities and maintaining long traditions in Norway. When Norway goes through a green shift, apart from oil, we need to invest more in jobs based on the renewable living biological resources on which Norway is so rich, not less on them. Then we need people living where these resources are, too. Therefore, the Green Party believes that a greater share of the fish should be disposed of by coastal fishing fleet. The centralisation of the reception structure must be halted, the centralisation of ownership of the fishing fleet must be halted, and new measures are needed to limit the amount of fish leaving the country for processing. We believe that the government's communication helps to continue a negative trend that does not exploit the opportunities offered by fishing resources to create life, activity, predictability and coastal settlement. We therefore support the proposal from the Centre Party and the SV to send the notification back to the government, and we propose to reduce VAT for locally processed seafood, so that we strengthen the competitiveness of the fisheries processing industry in Norway. With that, I'll take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e849	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the proposal she referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e856	The quota notification is now being dealt with in express terms, despite the Riksrevision report, which passed a crushing judgment on Norwegian fisheries policy. It notes that established principles have been challenged in the fisheries policy. It means, in our view, that the government is breaking the law. I now understand why the government parties want to deal with the quota notification before the National Audit Office's report, because the report confirms, as many have said for several years, that the fisheries policy is going in the wrong direction. The proposal we are considering today does not take us further in a new direction, but further on in the wrong direction. It's time to turn around. It's time to send the freezer trawls to chopping, and it's time to send a strengthened coastal fleet out into the fjords and out into the sea. When the Riksrevision comes up with such a clear criticism, the Storting must do as the coastal people demand: we must first deal with the Riksrevision report and then shape the fisheries policy after that. The rules governing the management of our common resources are broken. Administrative law is the legal system that sets the framework for government and administration. The government commits a crime by accepting a practice that is not based on law. That's what's happened here. Several rules of the Participant Act and the Maritime Resource Act, together with their regulations, make it clear that fishing authorisations – allowances – cannot be sold. As it says: ‘The structural quota shall be allocated for fishing by each vessel and shall not be transferable.’ However, in practice, the purchaser of an allowance receives the management's blessing for the transfer, even though the system is really that the administration should have assessed who will get the allowance on a free basis, regardless of the sale. As the National Audit Office says, high prices have made it difficult to recruit new fishermen. Arbitration councils have allowed the administration to guide the practice in the direction that the major actors will. The consequence is that young people who will become fishermen need enormous equity to get quotas. We see that the owner's concentration in the trawler fleet has increased sharply from 2004 to 2018. Today, ten companies can beam up 80 pst. of the cod trawl quotas. Trawl destroys the seabed, takes other species and emits much more CO 2 than the coastal fleet. When trawlers squeeze out small ones, the consequence is that the fish are frozen and sent unprocessed to China, where it is filled with water and chemicals before it returns to Europe. Red wants rich coastal fishing and local supply, to farms in Norway. The fish is a limited resource. Value creation in Norway is increasing when fish are transformed into quality products on Norwegian soil. It creates livelihoods for coastal fishermen and the population along our coast. There is one thing that all the parties on the Stortinget and the Government fully agree on, namely that the allocation of all kinds of fishing permits and quotas is administrative decisions. The size has also been defined as the absence of any constitutional protection for such decisions. It is expressed, among other things. in the proposal of the Economic and Social Committee not to extend the period of structural quotas. The size is therefore free to modify the rules on the allocation and conditions for decisions in the future. It is an important democratic principle. The national audit criticises that many of the changes in the allowance system are not sufficiently consistent – they must be! Therefore, the government is asking the government to investigate the impact of Norwegian fisheries policy, to echo the criticism of the Riksrevision, and to come back to Stortinget with a new big message that takes this into account. On the other hand, despite the harsh criticism of the Riksrevision, the government parties leave the quota notification. This will go into history as a good example of the fact that the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party will later be like the fact that resources are not privatized, while in practice they accept the purchase and sale of allowances, contrary to the law. They privatise the right to fish for the future. It will not involve the coastal communities, and Red supports the coastal communities. When the quota message is being knocked through today, it is against the will of the coast. It won't be forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e892	Is the representative of Moxnes going to make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e897	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e902	Then the representative Björn Moxnes mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e909	Red has, in several cases at the latest, gone out and said that there are offences in the fisheries management related to the practice of the quota system. This has not been demonstrated by the Riksrevision. I can refer from the Ministry of Fisheries: the allegations of crime are groundless and without any evidence, and nowhere in the report points out that some of the governments in the period have violated the Fisheries Act. So the question to the Moxnes is, has the Riksrevision review detected any crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e916	That the purchase and sale of allowances is illegal is not something Red has found. The fishing authorisations apply to one person and to one vessel, as stated in the Act of Participation § 4 and § 15. This applies to all types of fishing authorisations and quotas as set out below. structural quota regulation: «The structural quota is allocated for fishing by vessel and cannot be transferred.» A clearer ban on the purchase and sale in the law cannot be imagined. The Supreme Court has even said this about the prohibition of purchase and sale: ‘First, the legislation on the different types of fishing authorisations states that they have been granted for one particular vessel, see the Act of Participation § 4, § 12 and § 21. Secondly, for certain authorisations it has been expressly stated that they are unsubstantiated. [[...]] It can't be said more clearly, cf. Supreme Court and cf. the laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e928	But the Court of Auditors has just underlined this and commented on it in its report and has not found that there has been any crime in any of the things they have pointed out. And it's not just politicians Red now criticise for crime, it's also about administrative decisions taken by officials and women. Has Red intended to apologize for the accusations made by our employees of these charges of crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e933	Red has probably intended to ask the Right to read both on the law and to read up on the Supreme Court's assessments of the matter. That's a good recommendation. Then we will also ask the Right to reconsider a policy which, according to the National Audit Office, has led to 29 municipalities losing all the wild fish industry, 9 municipalities losing all the fishing facilities, and a number of municipalities losing many fishing facilities. Seven out of ten fish leave the country uncultivated instead of being a contribution to settlement, employment and land value creation. This is it completely possible for the Right to change. You can read up on the law, read up on the Supreme Court's assessments, and at the same time take a thorough look at the National Audit Office's report. The matter must then be postponed. It's the only thing responsible. It should go right in favour of beating it through today without going through the report and without adjusting the policy based on what the report provides on important findings in the case of Norwegian fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e938	Let me begin by saying that I have great respect for my co-representative Moxnes. He appears tidy, upright and with integrity. At the same time, it is a fact that he represents a party that has dubbed its ideology on Marxism-Leninism. A central element of that ideology is that the State should take over control of the means of production. That is why I must admit that I am being frozen when the representative of Moxnes says that the trawls should be cut up and the quota base transferred to the coastal fleet. It could be that there are more than empty words, and other regimes that have made themselves known to the same ideology, have made no distinction between large and small when a nationalist nationalizes means of production and allows the state to take over all control. Is this thing in the Red’s fisheries policy that one will fully implement this, that the State confiscates private property and administers it centrally from a government office?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e945	I have to ask the Horseman to get out of the 1970s and into the 2020s and see what Red stands for today. What happens is that the policy that the Christian People's Party is now unfortunately supporting, leads to a massive concentration of ownership, that the quotas are collected on fewer hands, and that people in our country are losing the opportunity to build their societies on the processing of fish, which is full in the oceans outside, but which are concentrated on ever fewer hands. That is what is alarming, I believe, which we could change today. Then we believe that when a quota runs out of time, we should consider the possibility that it can go to a group with smaller boats and more coastal vessels – not to the state, but to it – and look at what is socio-economic, what delivers most and best to the coast for processing. When the structural quotas expire, there is a golden opportunity to give the quota to a group of vessels that can create better recruitment for coastal fishing and also to comply with the objective set out below. the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e952	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e957	On 21 June 2019, the Government promoted the Landfill Communication An allowance system for increased value creation. The government's ambition was to follow up the proposals of the quota committee, which presented its proposals for a forward-looking quota system in 2016. The government also wanted to see the quota system in a broader context and therefore chose to follow up the size decision to assess the obligation system for cod trawlers in relation to the quota system. The size has also asked for strategies to be developed for full-time jobs in the fishing industry, to strengthen recruitment in the fishing industry and to improve the use of residual raw materials. This has been followed up in the message. The Government has also assessed the overall framework conditions for the major fishing fleet. This has also been part of the allowance notification. When the quota committee was set down in 2015, there were in particular two issues that the government wanted to address. An assessment was made of the application of the resource rate in fisheries and the application of the time-limited structural quotas in a forward-looking quota system. Both of these issues have a significant impact on the future framework conditions of the fishing fleet. The quota committee found that the quota system of the fishing industry has grown over time and that what started as the protection of a fragile industry has gradually evolved into privileges for relatively few. Thus, the quota system is really about the management of our common fisheries resources and how the harvesting of the fishing fleet contributes to the creation of value, environment, employment and development of coastal communities. Norwegian fishing industry is doing well. The industry is also doing well through the demanding time we are in now. I want to give praise to everyone in the industry who contributes to socially critical, important food production. The fish stocks are managed and harvested in a sustainable manner. Both shipowners and crews serve money that creates local ring-effects and contributes to Norwegian well-being. Yet not all are satisfied. The intention of this thorough review of the allowance system has been to create a balance sheet where we have seen increasing imbalances. Norwegian fishing industry depends not only on good framework conditions but also on broad political agreement on what we want with the quota system. It gives the industry stability and predictability. The Government has therefore been committed to promoting a comprehensive notification in order to facilitate thorough political treatment of the quota system. The Government has been concerned that out-of-date instruments should not be retained for their symbolic value. If the quota system is to be rusted for the future, it must be adapted and assessed according to the effects it produces. We will continue to have a fishing gear and differentiated fishing fleet that can harvest sustainably all fishing resources Norway has access to in the framework of international rules and agreements. The fishing fleet should continue to be an important support for employment and settlement in our coastal communities. Therefore, we need to dry to change in order to maintain and develop. The Government, through the notification of allowances, has promoted a number of measures that, in total, contribute to simplifying, streamlining and making the allowance system more flexible. The intention has been to increase value creation and legitimacy. Some of these proposals have not received support in Stortinget, others have changed their arrangements. However, I am pleased that there is a majority for most of the government's proposals. I note that the Riksrevision in its administrative audit, which was presented to the Stortinget last week, has promoted criticism. However, I am pleased that the quota notification meets this criticism in important areas. In conclusion, I would like to add that when we are going to implement and implement the measures to which the Storting belongs, we will of course have the views and guidance of the National Audit Office. If new issues arise that require further investigation, based on the leadership that the Storing is giving to the government today, we will of course do so. I am sure that this can be done in a good and expedient way, so that the will of the Great One is put to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e973	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e978	First, I would like to welcome the Minister to the Chamber. It was a good thing to get here. We've got a special round this morning. It is not strange to call it a little gastric plaque on the finish line, and it will be interesting to see how the Minister for Fisheries intends to deal with the proposal that has now been presented. The Ministry of Fisheries controlled by the Minister of Fisheries has also come up with criticism, and not least the Riks revision, in terms of the impact assessment of fisheries policy measures. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is: Does the Minister for Fisheries agree with the government parties on the Stortinget that the government has done a poor job, which means that we now need to look at the consequences again – after the Stortinget has made its decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e985	To the representative Myrseth's question, I have understood that the representatives who are in majority have said that the quota notification was well enough impact-tested when it was submitted, but that before the measures that are now being proposed are being implemented, they are asking the government to carry out a more detailed investigation. In addition, of course, in good tradition, we will have a close dialogue with industry and fisheries industry organisations to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e990	It is not possible to talk away from the fact that it is quite perceptive, what has happened this morning, and it may well be that the Minister for Fisheries really agrees with that. But the Minister for Fisheries should be commended for one thing, and that is that he has listened to some of what has already come. The Minister for Fisheries has listened to the National Audit Office, which indicates that ownership is concentrated on fewer hands, and they have called for action. It has been open to the Minister for Fisheries to look at. That's what he's supposed to be for. I would like to ask you about proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Senterpartiet and SV – ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for restrictions on ownership in the coastal fishing fleet’ – is in line with what the Minister for Fisheries has said to the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e997	I want to say that although in this context it is very relevant to say that a blood fresh minister is right when discussing fisheries policy, I have learned one thing: it is very wise to listen to what the Storting wants. We have answered, as I said instead, that we will of course come back according to the leaders of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1002	I would also like to welcome the Minister for Fisheries to Stortinget. My question is how proposal III in the vote will contribute to a lack of fishing fleet and how proposal III will help to strengthen fisheries-dependent communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1007	I would like to say to the representative Pollestad that it is very important to develop more activity along the coast. This is one of the areas in which the Riksrevision has pointed out that it has not worked so well. But we have succeeded in increasing industry profitability, and that is perhaps the very best starting point for improving coastal activity. We have also managed to achieve sustainable management of fish stocks, which is also a bottom plan for fisheries, namely that fishing for the next year is also fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1012	This was not an answer to the question. What has probably emerged is that proposal III, from the plurality, will help to reduce the number of fishing fleets and go beyond fisheries-dependent communities. We heard earlier that the representative, Mr Reiten, referred to proposal III as a proposal that was not well dealt with, and then my question is: Will the Council of State, as a government councillor and member of the Right Party, recommend the Stortinget to adopt proposals that the Stortinget openly says that one does not know the consequences of, and that does not reveal the consequence of, the responsible Council of State either? Or will the Council of State recommend Stortinget to establish the principle and ask for an arrangement of alternative models, as the opposition has requested?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1017	To the representative Pollestad, I would like to say that it is the government's policy to continue a balance in the allocation of resources. Before implementing new measures – as I see it as the leader of the Stortinget – we want to go into them carefully, so that we do not have unintended, negative effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1022	I would recommend the Council of State to try to answer as honestly as possible and not talk about completely different things from what the question concerns. At the same time, today’s decision to ensure the consistency of measures gives rise to an obligation to provide information to the Stortinget that impact assessments must be sent to the Stortinget. SV is going to – even if we think it is a very special proposal – to support it, because we have not achieved the desire to postpone treatment and get a new round, in line with the conclusions of the National Audit Office, etc. This is the question of how to follow up this decision of the Storting. Where is the Council of State going to begin to settle, and when can the Storting get its first impact assessments on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1029	I would like to tell the representative, Mr. Knag Fylkesnes, that it is very important for us and for everyone to see what the Storting is doing, and when a majority in the Chamber now wants some of the proposals that are now being presented, which are not under the quota system, to be examined, we are dealing with that. In line with that, it is also very important for us to have a close and close dialogue with the fishing industry and its organisations in order to find good solutions – in good tradition, I would say.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1035	The question concerned the process of Stortinget. Nothing specific is pointed out in the proposal, and Stortinget asks for all measures to be implemented in a consistent manner. When the Storting decides, and it is likely to be agreed by consensus, that means that the Stortinget will also get back impact assessments. Can the Council of States say now when we get the first impact statements, or at least suggest a time period for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1040	I have to answer the representative of Knag Fylkesnes that I have to get it back to, with a proper response to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1045	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1052	This debate on the notification of allowances is about values, about large material values – 30 billion. kr, there is formidable sums of money coming from the fisheries – but also values that are about who we are as a nation, the whole history of the coast, the fisheries and that it is deeply rooted in us that the fish is the property of the people and belongs to the community and is to be managed for the benefit of the community. These are values we have to fence around. We will have laws and regulations that ensure sustainable management in line with the values of society based on – small differences, opportunities for all – for the chess and for the trawler, for the established and for the young people who want to enter the industry. This allowance notification does not provide that level of security. I have to say that it is a very special situation that, just before examining it, we get a proposal from the government parties to determine the impact of what we are going to adopt – not specific parts of the message, but an unlimited formulation that we are going to make of what we are about to adopt. I agree with the criticism of this; it is a farce of the treatment of such an important matter. The policy adopted today will give even more quotas and more power on ever fewer hands. It warns the Workers' Party and the Red-Green parties against it. Not only the political opposition, but also the Riksrevision have put the trend towards concentration and less variation strongly on the agenda. The opposition wants a different direction and gathers on important proposals today, proposals that call for the Sea Resource Act, the Participant Act and the Fish Sale Act, which would ensure a more varied fleet, which would have a major impact on recruitment to the industry, which would strengthen the coastal fleet and, in particular, the smallest boats that have a significant impact on many communities, but also on the availability of fresh fish to all of us consumers. At the same time, we will think again about how we can ensure profitability and value creation and process more fish here in the country, not less and less, as today. Some of my most vivid memories of visiting along the coast in recent years are about the diversity of this industry – the great trawlers out fishing outside Gryllefjord, visiting the fillet factories that have a lot to do when it's raw materials, and those who struggle when it's not raw materials, or the visit of the incredible founder Karl, who delivers fresh products right from Kaia in Tromsø – a diversity that is impressive. There is this diversity of the main values of Fisheries-Norway this message is about. I will also agree with the demand that came, that when the impact assessment is decided, we expect the Council of State to come back with an overview of what needs to be verified and when the Storting gets to debate it, so that we get a delayed treatment of what is being adopted here today. We assume that no action will be taken until they are properly assessed when this proposal is given a majority today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1065	Fisheries mean a lot along the coast of Norway, not least in my home country, Northernland, where we have most coastal fishermen. Nearly 11,000 annual works directly in fisheries create 30 000 annual works within the industry in total, with their ring-effects. A fishing boat is an important business, and the industry we are discussing today is exporting 30 billion dollars. kr. Such an industry deserves predictability. Many of the proposals we have been asked to address today require more detailed investigation, more detailed legislation. What's the consequence of going from the length of the house to the actual length? What happens if your quota comes from a different group than your boat is now in? There are also details about the relapse of structural quotas. I would ask the government to have a good dialogue with fishermen's organisations in designing the details of this. This has a major impact on industry, but also on our communities, on coastal communities. In examining the effects of our political decisions, the National Audit Office has established in the last fifteen years that we have redeployed values between regions, and we have contributed to the pooling of rights on fewer hands. The working party is concerned that participation in the industry requires far more capital because it makes it difficult for young people to enter it. All industries need recruitment. Nor is there the most capital available in the sparsely populated areas of Norway. The working party is pleased that fisheries are more profitable. We can take some of the credit through politics, but it is important to see that rich fishing resources and good prices have contributed very much to it in recent years. It hasn't always been like that, and it won't always be like that. The only thing that's certain is: if you harvest by nature, the natural vibrations come. That is why we are voting against it when the government and the Progress Party will now lock the beam ladder. They do not relate to the resource base. After all, the trough ladder is just there to make good use of the seagoing fleet in good times with a greater share of the quota once the coastal fishermen have got what they can pick up. The working party is concerned with the division of work between coastal and sea fleets because activity in the fishing industry is important. By locking the beam path, organisations have been excluded from influence and the possibility of increased processing on land has been excluded. The working party lacks that the notification focuses on how we ensure raw material for the fishing industry. That's what we hope to get more attention from a possible government shift in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1080	In the quota notification, the government will do more of what the Riksrevision criticises them for — more of what benefits king-in-law, and less of what benefits the Norwegian people, who have elected them to the Stortinget. The government will knock through the following: more market management, more quota sales, less fishing management, less influence from those who own the fish, i.e. the Norwegian people in common. The big fishing boats need to get bigger. We also have some links between land and sea, which have great power, where the fish do not lead to sufficient work on land. With this communication, we do not care for the communities that the Sea Resource Act is intended to preserve, the communities that have used fishing all year round as a means of sustaining settlements and jobs. The Riksrevision does not save on the frame of criticism. This varies from ‘serious’ to ‘strongly critical’ and ‘critical’. But what does that mean? Nothing. The majority don't care about the Riksrevision's position. It is scrapped just as quickly as the Storting has got the report in the door. In other words, it will become even more clear that the fisheries policy in Norway is governed by an internal authority that will only have the resources for itself. The people who live and live along the coast, with today's government, can settle down that they will be subject to the modern king-in-laws who sweep to themselves all the valuable resources, only to leave the people with five ears and barely that. The time has come to build Norway and not lay the coast dead. The National Auditorate has understood that. The strange thing is that it doesn't go in with those who rule the country. The time is ripe to follow one of the mountain weather rules: there is no shame in turning around. Why do we have so little confidence in Norway that we send a lot of our fish frozen to Eastern Europe and China for production? The centre party cannot calmly look at such irresponsibility. We are taking a great deal of distance from the government parties and the power arrogance of the Advance Party. There is today an alarming need for new jobs on the coast. We have to make sure that the values of the fish benefit coastal communities. Value chains need to be strengthened in Norway and benefit the whole population, not just the quota barons. People want development, not liquidation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1093	The Workers' Party wants to strengthen and further develop local communities along the coast based on community resources in the sea and the rights and opportunities of the population to harvest them. The working party believes that the fish industry on land needs to be ensured predictability through good framework conditions and stable and balanced access to raw material throughout large parts of the year, thus ensuring increased value creation, profitable jobs and annual employment. Or as the coastal uprising says, there's going to be people living in the house along the coast. The national audit has presented its report on the quota system in coastal and marine fisheries. The report is not a merry reading. Despite the report’s finding that changes in the quota system over the period 2004-2018 have contributed to increased profitability in the fishing fleet, which is positive, the main findings of the report point to a number of negative impacts: The ownership of quota vessels is concentrated on fewer hands. Quota vessels are to a lesser extent owned by registered fishermen. The fleet structure is less varied, the vessels are smaller and larger. Foreign ownership of the fishing fleet is increasing. Switching between vessel and quota has been weakened. Increased quota prices have made it difficult to recruit new fishermen. Changes in the smallest coastal fleet have a negative impact on very many coastal communities. The report also points out that several of the changes to the allowance system are insufficiently impact-explained by the ministry. We are at risk of a quota-free coastal community. Quota policy is essential for the development of the fishing industry. The Government, together with the Progress Party, is promoting new proposals that are under-examined. The same proposals also meet too little of the challenges that have been identified, among others. of the Riksrevisionen. The government must provide the necessary investigations. The working party therefore considers it irresponsible for the Storting to deal with the allowance notification now as the case has developed. However, the Government with the support of the Advance Party is choosing to press through a discussion of this matter today, despite a number of protests and warnings. Sea resources are the property of the community and shall be ensured for future generations through sustainable management and national governance. The fishing industry generates billions of income at the same time as it contributes to the feeding of an ever-increasing population in the world. The coastal population and the fishing industry had earned a better and more thorough process in this matter than the government has planned. In addition to this, I refer to the good proposals of the Workers' Party. There's still opportunity to give their consent to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1136	My father was a fisherman, so were my brothers. My father was born into the fishing profession and took over the boat after his father. This was difficult times economical. I remember that my father sat with the accounts after this year's Lofot fishing and was worried because the catches were bad and the crew just got the minimum lot. My mom worked at the fish farm. She did not have a job every day, but got a job the days the fish farm received catches. If it was bad weather, it was land. Then there was no income on either mom or dad. This is the time to which some people are trying to glorify and want to return. There was a time without future faith and optimism in the industry. Then the fisheries were closed, and the subsidisation of the industry ceased. And what is the result today? Well, we have an industry that employs many – not more than what it did in the past, but those who are employed in the industry, either on their own boat or as crew on a fishing boat, earn money. It has become a profitable industry, making it worth investing and investing, and not least helping young people to get into the industry. And now the recruitment scheme for fishermen under 30 years of age is strengthened by getting a quota supplement from the group quota to the open group. When one hears the coastal uprising and some supporters from the opposition in these days, one should think that we lived in two different worlds. Is it none of you who have had your history – it has worn out, the uncertainty, and not least the bad economy that was in the industry? In the years since the closure of fisheries, we have now received sustainable management of fish stocks, there is a non-subsidy industry with good profitability in all fleet groups, and the investment will be back. Everything is not perfect, but with the changes that the majority are making, the industry gets the answer it needs to continue its investment. The quota bank is being cancelled, and the co-fishing system, which the Minister of Fisheries of the Workers Party introduced as a temporary scheme, which the Riksrevision criticises, is now being phased over a five-year period – to mention something. What will be important in the future is to ensure continued profitability in industry, to ensure a good interaction between coastal, jet and coastal communities in order to create good and profitable jobs in the future, and not least to improve the processing of resources in Norway. Then there is still a 'light in the house', and then we need a good economy in the fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1151	The central party is working to ensure that fisheries policy is designed so that capital forces are controlled, not promoted. As a result, coastal communities can become viable by providing the safest income to young people who will train and work in the fishing industry, whether on board a boat or in processing plants. The consequences of today’s fisheries policy have long been the opposite and have led to a strong weakening of coastal communities, so that entire municipalities in e.g. Finnmark is faltering. The main feature of the Centre Party is a new fisheries policy that promotes overall responsibility for the development of society in Coastal Norway. No industry is more important to realize this. Individual operators in fisheries must then be financially stimulated to support this societal approach. This requires clear political decisions, so that there is consistency between the objectives of the Storing and what is the decision of the Storing. Why is this important? The Court of Auditors has made the following observation on page 24 of the report: ‘The Court of Auditors notes that the Ministry considers that it is unclear what concrete changes to the quota system considered by the Riksaudition to have had unintended consequences.’ Through many years of work in the Norwegian Control Committee, I have never experienced that the word «unclear» has been used in such a way. Thus, the Ministry does not respond specifically to the criticisms of the National Audit Office. This is an eye-catching breach of what all state councils are trying to make to defend themselves against the conclusions of the National Audit Office. Today’s debate is due to the fact that the majority of the population would not expect a thorough assessment of the Riksrevision report. There are many years between the critical follow-up of the National Audit Office on fisheries policy and the impact of any national audit report. Either a current line continues, but openly and honestly – then the Riksrevision will be satisfied, because it will be consistent with words and actions, and it cannot criticise the Riksrevision – or the Storting will take the consequences of the Riksrevision's criticism and develop new instruments for a course in line with stated objectives. The National Audit Office's report is rarely strongly criticised for the lack of consistency between what is said about objectives and what is the result. Words are used as ‘serious’ and several times a term as ‘strongly critical’ is used. It's very strong. So what does the Center Party mean? The centre batch is used to determine the transition from the purchase and sale of allowances to the allocation of allowances and rights to new young recruits when the older generation falls away. Those who have purchased participant rights, concessions or allowances shall not suffer any loss in the event of any change. This can be done by introducing depreciation allowances for all allowances – not just for structural allowances, which are currently available.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1171	The quota system needs to be modernised. If we are to make good use of our common resources, it actually has to change. Not least the National Audit Office's report has shown us. There has been great support for simplification, even though we have received criticism in some parts of the message. The proposal for changes makes the blood burst in some of them, but we've put emphasis on listening to the industry, and we've made changes to meet the needs of the industry. Among other things, we have removed state quota treatment, we have changed the structure distribution, and we have retained the simplifications. Today's system is very fine-tuning and complex, and the more new mechanisms are added to address different concerns, the more complex it becomes. It's a democratic problem when we get a system that is so inconspicuous that it goes beyond transparency. It has also been very clear to the National Audit Office in its report. In sum, this contributes to the security of the allowance system being exposed to political uncertainty and constant discussions about changes that may lead economic operators to make erroneous judgements because they wonder or expect one or another of changes. This is also reflected in the report of the National Audit Office. An example of this is the increase in the quota price for vessels below 11 metres, which has had a very high trend in recent years. This has just happened due to an expectation and due to structural arrangements. Finally, I would like to mention our proposal for a strategy to recruit more women into the fishing industry. Only 3 pst. by the fishermen are women. A distribution of 97 pst. men who own a wrong distribution of wealth and income, and you get a pattern where the wife takes care of what is on land, and the man takes care of what is on the sea, but all the values and all the rights lie with him. We have to look at how the system has affected equality. Women cannot stand in a fishing boat during pregnancy or during a lactation period and must be able to enter and enter active fishing without losing their active fishing status. We've extended the period of time that you can rent ships on maternity leave, but we also have to do a lot more. Women must have something more in the fishing industry than panties in a mast and ‘haill’, i.e. the belief that having sex before the fishing trip increases the fishing luck. I look forward to a strategy for equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1190	Norway is a fishing nation, and throughout our history the management of our national fisheries resources has provided housing, value creation and life base along the coast. Fisheries resources are a national Community resource, where we build communities, build families and provide security. One of the main reasons for the people’s no in 1994 was precisely the desire for national autonomy over this Community resource to build society. In the context of the fisheries policy, we in the Grand Duchy have set some clear objectives. Of course, we must have sustainable populations, because the whole basis for a fisheries policy is that we have sustainable populations. We're going to have employment and housing along our coast, and we're going to have profitability for our society. When we look at the feedback from the Riksrevision, which is the Supervisory Body of the Storting – it is important that we in Stortinget are aware of that, it is the body that is to check whether our objectives have been followed – the feedback is crystal clear that, as far as the objective of having housing and employment across the coast is concerned, the fisheries policy does not lead to that. Then, from the point of view of the Central Party, it is incomprehensible that others in the Storting are so busy – the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Left – that we do not take the time to discuss why this has happened, what action we are now taking, and that we do not take the time to enter into what our own Supervisory Board has pointed out, which is that we do not reach one of the three main objectives of the Norwegian fisheries policy. The government and the Progress Party have obviously been so busy that they do not take the time to come up with their own proposals. And when we ask for a little bit more time, instead of rushing things through, there's been some sort of prestige in the discussion. Fortunately, the bulk of the population has been able to stop the proposals of the Progress Party on a State quota bank. That's what Harald T. Nesvik came in initially, it's being stopped today. What amazes me, and which amazes the Centre Party, is that a new fiscal levy on fisheries should be introduced as compensatory measures for the Ministry of Finance. It doesn't have any purpose, it's just a fee to get more money into the treasury, 100 million. kr, and it shall be done as soon as possible and, where appropriate, from 2021. It's also a very strange decision, that it's about bringing in a tax as soon as possible, as some sort of compensation to the state treasury. Fortunately, we have stopped the extension of structural quotas. But when the parties that said earlier today that it is so important to have predictability for the fishing industry, it is so busy that one should have this adopted before we deal with the Riksrevision report, that is the opposite of predictability to which one actually contributes. Of course, this makes it clear that when the control committee is going to review the National Audit Office's report last autumn, and you write comments, write a statement and get a debate, there will be a new round of how we are going to have quota policy in Norway, how we organise the fisheries policy. It'll go with full force into the big shot in 2021. This is a very important national industry, building land and serving us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1206	I have grown up and lived in the fishing municipality of Askvoll, about as far west as one can come in Norway before a meeting on the oil platforms, which one else might look like on a good day. Fishing has been the basis for bustling in this island community from the first man to put his legs there thousands of years ago, and that's still the way it is. Divicious people have taken in knowledge from previous generations, have taken in relevant education and are doing it very well today. I love it with my whole heart, because nothing has come free of charge. The hard work, the ability to constantly change and the use of new technologies have been the key to success. The exposure to the quota notification has been large both from the home country and from other central fishing communities along the West Coast, and I am very pleased about that. In previous debates in this room, I have looked and often listened to the topic of quota barons used. I have a problem with a part of the fishing environment, and one thing I can say: I often meet skippers, engineers, sailors, bases and people with other relevant professional titles, but until now I haven't met a single baron, not people with other nobility titles either. Through changing times, good and less good, with varying governments that have laid the foundations for the industry, and with an enormous technological development, the fishing fleet has developed. Today, fishing is an attractive and profitable industry that provides the basis for active local communities along our entire coast, and it should continue to be so. Today we say: the resource belongs to the community, the fishermen have to process the quotas into economic value, food and industrial raw materials. Slide in vessel size shall be raised for closed bulkheads between groups. Coastal fleets are a priority here, but mainly stability between fleets is maintained. The feedback from people in our region, from both the coast and the sea, is that with the changes that are now taking place, the message is to live with. In particular, the proposal that a government allowance bank be killed by a close collection of aggregates is being warmly opposed. The recordings from all parts of the industry have been clear and consistent, and we have listened. Now, if I have to pick, quota barons are far preferable to flake barons, which I can sometimes see is a group in this room. At least the first create activity and employment and allows many families along our coast, among both crews and owners, to live good and safe lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1223	The President would point out that the use of the word ‘flake baron’ if co-representatives may not be used in good parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1228	I just want to stress that I haven't grown up on the coast. However, I have a strong understanding of the importance of the fantastic fishing resources in terms of the security of people, the settlement and the further development of a fantastic raw material for added value, precisely to ensure the basis for the scattered settlement and the fantastic coastal environment we have throughout Norway. When setting important framework conditions for industries in Stortinget, it tends to be in good faith that we are initially trying to gather the Stortinget into broad and find good, agreed solutions – because a desire to treat important industries in Norway with long-term and predictability. Is that what we're doing now, when we're handling the allowance message? No, we're doing the exact opposite. With a narrow majority, the right parties force them through what they want. They do it against the will of the coast, they do it against large parts of the industry's will, and they do it with a national audit report hanging over their heads. In addition, we have experienced the sensational today by witnessing that the right-wing parties need to understand the consequences of their own proposals and of the big message. It's amazing. There's no parallel. Where are the coasts and fisheries going after this day, the day that was really going to be a great day, when we had managed to create the faith of the future, optimism, the opportunities, the course? But that's not what we're doing. We create frustration, short-sightedness and unpredictability. That's what we're doing. Imagine if we had treated the petroleum industry in a similar way! Then the government had to leave, I'm convinced of that. One important question today is: Are we creating better opportunities for more? We read the suggestions from the right parties and we answer that question with a no with two lines below. Government parties don't know what they're doing. It's quite eye-catching. Yesterday we thought that the government parties did not understand the consequences of what they were doing, among other things. with regard to the beam path, today we have been confirmed that the right-wing parties do not know anything about the consequences of what they are doing. What was supposed to be a flag day for the coast, the fish and the possibilities, hasn't become anything near it, unfortunately, and it's because of the right hand parties' handling of the starting points of the amazing resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1243	What is happening here today is a disaster – a disaster for a fair fisheries policy, a disaster for respect for the Riksrevision and a disaster for the credibility of the government parties in the coastal population and in North Norway. The civil fisheries policy can now, after having seen it work for a few years, and after voting in this Chamber today, be summarised as follows: They've wanted to increase the proportion of fish to the trawls, but they say no to increase the quota for the coastal fleet. On the right, the trawlers and those with the most quotas, the quota barons, take sides against the coastal fishermen and coastal communities. They say no to the limitation of ownership of the coastal fleet and thus add to more concentrated ownership of fisheries. In this way, resources must be collected on fewer and fewer hands. They say no to change the structural quota system to give young people the chance to get in. They say no to make sure that the processing share increases and suggest that a lot of fish are still to be lost from the country and less and less to the Norwegian agricultural industry. We also see today that the government parties do not address in any way the criticism that has come from the Riksrevision, but on the contrary are willing to continue in the same track. A minimum now should be that this criticism was taken seriously, and then the big message about the fisheries policy should have been drawn to the advantage of a new one that should be based on the principle that the sea should contribute to employment and settlement in coastal communities. That's what much of the industry requires. Almost all fisheries-dependent municipalities and counties require this. It is a large, popular demand for another course, targeted by the coastal uprising in the north. It is worth recalling what the Riksrevision has actually said, that they are using the second highest level of criticism of government policy and conclude that the fisheries policy has led to an increase in profitability for ever fewer and have been negative for coastal communities. Nevertheless, it is decided by a very few majority to pursue a policy of enormous importance to the coastal communities. I think that's a pretty clear signal to the people of the north and people along the coast. Now it's time to listen to the coastal uprising. Disseminating resources better is the best strategy for people, but also for us as a society to get the most out of these resources. It is time for a fisheries policy that is for the many and not for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1254	We hear in the debate that fisheries policy is a demanding policy area. There's a lot of good reasons for that. It's about fish being a resource, and fishermen want to access this resource base and want a larger quota base. Regardless of each fishing, you want a greater quota base, more ignition and more profitability for your boat, either on a jack or a big trawler. But the industry has been through-regulated over time, and it has created both winners and losers. The setting we adopt today has many good things with it, which is also supported by the industry. So it's time we got these changes. What amazes me in the debate is perhaps most of the Labour Party. I am not going to put so much emphasis on the centre party and SV, but the Labour Party has, after all, managed the fisheries policy for many, many years. I heard the representative Gahr Støre in his speech on the protection of the law of participation and the value of scattered ownership, and that it is the wealth of the people. And in the line change with the state council here, it was criticised that a now wants to come true. It is therefore the case that the Workers' Party has, on a number of occasions, undermined its fisheries policy. They have adapted it to the requirements of the trawlers, whether they are exemptions from the Participant Act, Ownership Restrictions or other changes. Helga Pedersen gave green light, one would buy himself free from universal service obligations both in the South and Øksnes for a lick and nothing. It has created precedents in such cases, without impact assessment and disbursement from the Labour Party – and Terje Aasland is talking about the safety of fishing industries. This is contrary to what we are actually adopting today. In 2012, the Labour Party assessed the tightening of obligations. Then they would have seen the consequences of what they suggested. But they didn't dare. Smoking was against, so they dropped the plans for tightening up. What the majority are doing today is, in fact, providing for the sustainability of the fisheries policy, and one would actually like to ensure that, as the National Audit Office points out. This is very positive. Fisheries policy has changed and needs to change. It's about social developments in general. In 1970 there were hundreds of fillet factories in Norway, today there are five fillet factories left with year - round production. This is about product development, and everyone understands that custom product cannot be created on each berth. Our job as politicians is to provide a framework for the industry that is so good that one can be competitive at all levels of the value chain, as far as possible, so that one can attract the consumers and their wishes in the world. Therefore, the setting we adopt today is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1273	I would like to associate some words with the consequences of Decision III in the resolution. I brought this up with the Council of State in a row exchange. I know the council is new, but I have to say that the answer I got was not good enough. The size of the population must expect a Council of State to be able to answer questions about the consequences of the policy adopted. I hope that the Council of State can come up and respond properly to the consequences of the decision to be taken. The representative, The Horseman of the Christian People's Party, is talking about custody. Once again, I will go to proposal III in the vote, which is a rather large and important proposal. It's to be done in retrospect! It has to be decided today, and then it has to work out the consequences. There is a form of policy development that we cannot accept. Another point that makes sense is the rhetoric. For some of the big victories they have received, the same parties that have proposed something are now saying that there is no such thing. A government composed of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Left and the Advance Party proposed a government quota bank. And then a one-year-old says, "No, it's not going to be any government allowance bank -- come and pat for us." It's not a political saying to do nothing! But that's what they're supposed to be: they're good at. I'm glad that the government allowance bank doesn't matter, for the most part, it was a terrible idea, but when you're going to give up this, you're going to have 100 million. kr i a new fee – a new fiscal fee. I don't know if they in the Progress Party believe that the tax is about a fee on fish, but that doesn't mean it. That means that there is a fee that has only one purpose: to get money into the treasury. And in the current situation, the majority of them decide that the fishing industry will contribute 100 million. kr right into the treasury. It is the policy of the Progress Party, and it surprises me, when the same party has been so happy to get out of government – it was like getting out of prison, they said. But what have they been busy about? Well, they've been busy what pins to wear, whether it's the Norwegian flag or the United Nations flag. They've been out in the media and discussed it, the tough guys in the Progress Party. But a fee of 100 million. kr for an industry in which they raised a premium of 250 million in the State budget. kr, yes, there is no problem with joining the Progress Party. So I hope that the tax collector Strifeldt can come up and explain why he thinks it is necessary to apply a new fee to the fishing. It is not common for us to introduce new charges in Norway. There have been items in shopping bags and air seats, but now it is the fishermen who are to be taxed. I am pleased to hear the explanation given to the representative Strifeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1284	Nordland is the country that has the most coastal fishing vessels. Coastal settlement and industry depend on a fisheries policy that provides the most jobs in both sea and land. That's why this case is taking so many, and that's why the tone gets sharp. Who is responsible for the fact that the Storting does not stop, but that the ownership is still being collected on fewer hands? Who is serving the fact that fisheries-dependent municipalities are still losing fishing activity? What does it mean for the settlement, jobs and activity of a society as a whole that increasing quota prices makes it difficult to recruit new fishermen, that they are getting fewer, and that society is getting confused? The Central Party believes that the Government Parties and the Advance Party are now taking decisions that will further take the fisheries policy in the wrong direction, where fishing communities will lose, where recruitment is weakened and where resources are concentrated on fewer and fewer hands. The government is hiding behind an excuse for general social development. A greater recognition that one has not been willing to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the law to develop along the coast for the benefit of the inhabitants, achieve the objectives set by the Stortinge, and ensure that the eternal resources benefit as much as possible, could hardly be achieved. The profitability has improved, refers to it. That's right. But profitability for whom? It is not for the whole coast, but for the fleet that is owned by ever fewer hands. It is not to give the coast opportunities both on land and at sea. It provides fewer Norwegian jobs, fewer active coastal communities. With the prospects we have, these jobs we can't afford to say no to. I have looked for what is good in the message and in the setting. Even in the depths of the sea and in the dark creatures that roam around will find food. It is good that a total accumulation says no to a government allowance bank. It's good that a total accumulation says no to extend structural quotas. However, it is not good for the majority to add to a fisheries policy that will reinforce a trend with increasing capital needs, coastal communities that are losing, and that fisheries are increasingly benefiting. It is serious that the sum of changes in the quota systems has, or will at least have, adverse effects on fishing activity in many coastal communities, against pronounced political contradictions. The Government Parties and the Advance Party will, by adopting the proposals they have made in the cancellation of the quota notification, after the Riksrevision has presented a flagrant criticism, demonstrate a surprising self-pity and contempt for the serious findings of the report – and not least for the role of the Riksrevision as the main body of the Storting with the administration and government. I will go as far as to say that this is unheard of. I can't come up with an example where the majority knocks through a big message based on their own political assessments, disconnected from reality the Riksrevision describes, and at the tamp suggests that perhaps the proposals should have been investigated. In reality, this means that the majority scraps the report without any real-life treatment. It is extremely serious, and this will lead to great unrest in the future that the decisions taken will lack legitimacy and understanding of the coastal population.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1299	Today, we conclude on a matter that has engaged in a lot along the coast. For me, as a coastal magnification representative, Mr More and Mr Romsdal, there is no doubt that this matter has been widely involved. I would like to thank the industry for many good meetings and constructive and clear feedback. It is my clear impression that a persistent uncertainty about this matter will not serve anyone well. On the contrary, an existing uncertainty will lead to investment continuing to be held back, and industry not developing further as we wish. That's why it's important that after so many years of handling this case, we now get that country in Stortinget. Today, we clearly state that the resources still belong to the community. Today, the size seems to be adopted is to facilitate stability and a continued economic activity that creates activity along the coast and in the districts. I have received a lot of feedback from local fishermen that the government bank was not a good idea. That is why I am pleased that today we are putting that proposal away and that an alternative solution has been reached in dialogue. We avoid that the state should have double roles in fisheries management, and we ensure that it is the fishermen who handle the resources, not the state. We have listened with it to the industry's clear feedback. Finally, I would like to warn against the opposition's proposal, especially that of the SV and the Central Party. Being a fisherman is doing business, it's taking risks, and it's building up its own business base. We're going to have a framework set by the state, yes, but with the proposals that have now come, the opposition is old with the profitability of the industry. If you don't have any profitability, you don't have activity or employment along the coast and in the districts. In the end, I am very happy that we continue to make it easier to recruit young, new fishermen into the industry. It's incredibly important, and I hope we see more new fishermen in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1312	This has been so far a strange debate, mainly for three reasons: firstly, the opposition spends a great deal of time criticising the majority for not taking into account what is stated in the Riksrevision report. What is the main point of that report? Well, it hasn't been conclusive enough when you've made big changes to the quota systems – not just during this government, but back to the red-green era. In the next breath, we get the following criticism that we have made a proposal to ask for an impact assessment of the proposals that are either not mentioned in the quota notification or cannot be said to be in line with the quota notification. Terje Aasland is right in one thing: it is sensational in this room that proposals are accompanied by a request for impact assessment. For there is one thing that characterises the opposition parties as a trademark, it is that it is so never asked for impact assessment when these parties ask the government through representative proposals to implement changes in laws, regulations and administrative practices. The opposition can – without taking responsibility – propose anything because they know that they do not have a majority. The majority take responsibility – and ask for an impact assessment. Secondly, the opposition does not carefully discuss its own policy. The number is used exclusively to criticize the government. The best example of that is perhaps the representative Audun Lightbakken, when he kept his post. Before this debate, the parliamentary leader of the Central Party, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, asked that all parliamentary leaders take part in the debate. Then you might think that they came to tell the Stortinget and the Norwegian people what is the party's primary policy. I clocked by the Audun Lighthouse, and when there were eight seconds left, he asked the Stortinget to take account of the coastal uprising, and then he left the hall. It is close to concluding that this is a strategy to cover the gap between the opposition parties internally in comments and proposals in the committee's position. The opposition parties have had a few years to resolve disagreements between themselves and to present a consistent and coherent policy as an alternative to the government's political leadership, on which they could go to elections, and they have not been able to do so. Thirdly, the opposition parties do not at all talk about having even very much developed and implemented the fisheries policy that the Riksrevision criticises.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1325	I have to say, it's pretty absurd to be a spectator of what's happening now. Firstly, it is the case that the case rapporteur has not signed up on the list to defend or answer what is happening, and he who is to lead the opposition party, which gives a very limited majority to the matter, does not intend to say anything about why it is so important to do what you are doing now. I can understand that, because I didn't want to defend this either. But it is also absurd because we are now adopting a framework for the sharing of resources into one of Norway’s most important industries — without knowing. We don't know the consequences. Neither do the representatives who will vote in favour. Nor does the Minister for Fisheries. We don't know what's going to happen now. The only neat thing was to send the matter back. Nor is it predictable, because now we need quota treatment 2.0 – when we know what to do and how to deal with it. And how is that to be treated? Will the Storting know during this debate? When will you come back with what you might need to know, and how will it be dealt with? And then the Control Committee will also examine the Riksrevision report. Do you have to listen to what's coming there? Should you be willing to make changes if necessary, because that will obviously be necessary. There is going to be a long time of uncertainty for this industry, and that responsibility lies only on the position, because this is nothing more than political craftsmanship. The Labour Party, together with the Centre Party and the SV, has proposed many proposals, and we have made reservations in our proposals that things need to be assessed, that we need to see the consequences of what we are proposing. And there's broad political consensus on the red-green side in a completely different direction. What is the direction of the position, I don't think anyone knows – except that it's very important to implement and adopt the policy right now. This is the direction of the position. So we are now going to adopt policies, and then we are going to have to investigate them in a consistent way. But we don't know anything anymore. I think it's so worrying. It's actually a total failure, and you're now running the industry into a pretty big darkness for quite a long time. I would have been ashamed, I would have been you, for this is not good enough for this industry. The representative Ebbesen is going to tell us about the story. Yes, history has taught us a lot, but it has also taught us that we need to take political action on the basis of the time we have, the challenges we have. We can't let the industry and the fishermen decide it alone. We have to take social responsibility, and we do that with politics. And there will be no more «light in the house» – there will be light in fewer houses when we adopt this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1341	It's not so surprising, what's going on in many ways today, with the main focus on the Riksaudition, when one then to the degrees fails to tell about the excellence of his own policy. I recall when we invited to conversations about the quota message from the position to try to get the widest possible settlement. Unfortunately, it was not possible, for one was also then in the first place, one was not interested. One was in many ways only interested in postponing, training and postponing. It is also special when the representative Lysbakken takes a tour of the hall today, comes up with some new concepts and, of course, forgets that parts of what the Riksrevision points out, relate to parts of the eight years of the Workers' Party and SV was responsible for the fisheries policy, along with the Centre Party. Of course it's forgotten. Some of the criticisms made by the Riksrevision, which we take into account to the greatest extent, are not least about this co-fishing system, the Jewel of the Workers' Party, as it is referred to in many ways as. The National Audit Board points out in rather harsh order that it should be disposed of as soon as possible. The only thing that has happened is that the Workers' Party is still standing by a co-fishing model that has made it even more structured, and at the same time, it has given you fewer hands that own the fishing boats. Of course, that's not mentioned, because it's not interesting. What's most interesting here is to point out what you think it should be exposed to. That's absolutely right, what the representative Reiten says. Then there's a paradox that there's not a single one talking about that this is the management of a living resource. I fully agree that fishing is a generalization, and I who live in the rocks, must be allowed to say that I see neither flakes barons nor havaric barons nor other barons. I see workers trying to salvage themselves from the resources that are there. Then I get a little bit obs: what is this? Is it a floss, a party speaker, something that doesn't really exist? I think it's a little scary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1352	I live in Finnmark and I know that people in Finnmark don't realize that even if you live just a spook from the best fish field in Europe, the entrance ticket to get into the fish is so sky high that you can't afford to buy a quota to start fishing. Has Stortinget said that a quota for a 40-foot boat, which is about 12 meters, will cost from 10 million. NOK 15 million. Do you really want to delete this item? The reason is that the government and those in charge choose to be managed by a management tool called market management. This is not the control tool that provides more jobs, whether at sea or on land. One has forgotten that it is laws that govern politics and that must ensure that people get work. Gamvik Center Party believes that the administration has led the fish to disappear from the coast, thus losing communities like Gamvik its largest source of income. The allowances belong to the people. It shall not initially be a product that is placed on the market. Then only the richest can fish, says the leader of Gamvik. The centre party will abolish the purchase and sale of allowances, and we will see to it how this can be done in a good way. The fish come by at fixed times every year, whether it's corona or something else. The fish is coming. Norwegian law tells us, among other things: that the fish is jointly owned by the Norwegian people. It's therefore completely wrong when people don't get work despite the fact that there's so much fish on the outside that it's never been before. You cannot continue to do things wrong when you have been told that this policy does not work as it should. But people need to know that when the Central Party comes – I say when – in the government position in 2021, we're going to reverse the errors of the Solberg government against the people. Fishing resources shall continue to be owned jointly by the Norwegian people. The centre party will manage the resources and rights in a way that does not contribute to centralisation, either within regions or between parts of the country. The Central Party will see to it that we get a varied fishing fleet. Coastal fishing has been a cornerstone of coastal employment and value creation for centuries. We will also ensure that we have more fish production in Norway, so that we can create thousands of new jobs, in line with Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1365	What our country is going to look like, and whether it is people, jobs and value creation that are to be given priority, or whether it is more to the greatest and financial interests that are to be gained, is a field that is largely influenced by fisheries policy in Norway. Therefore, this is a very important debate on how Norway should be as a society. Today, there are young people who are being excluded, who have both a job and a job in progress, and who want to contribute to the creation of value in our country, but who do not get that opportunity because it is too expensive to get an entrance ticket to have fishing as work. Unfortunately, we are in the process of getting a situation where what has been best with Norway in many ways is that the possibility of creating a future is distributed independently of inheritance and privileges, being challenged, among other things. in this field, on our coast. We need a fairer Norway. We need a Norway where we can actually experience confidence in the future again and more jobs — not increasing the number of jobs and relocations. And then demanded, among other things. Riding what is the red-green policy. Then I just want to recommend going into the setting, he sees several concrete suggestions on what is the red-green policy of the Workers' Party together with the other red-green parties. We can take two good examples – in concrete terms: there we go in order to have more processing in Norway, to provide more jobs and limit the export of fish from our country as pure raw material exports. It will provide greater confidence in the future and increased value creation. And the ownership of the vessel with quotas we want to spread on several hands. There are obvious good policies for justice, and not least for our country to work better. When representatives from the right-wing parties come up to the pulpit and almost wonder why there is so much involvement in this debate, it's a sign that we're looking quite different at what business policy is. As we look at it, industrial policy is an important part of our democracy in order to achieve some basic objectives for jobs and distribution, while for the right parties, this is an equal amount of financial interest. In fact, it is enough to quote Højre’s own historian, Francis Sejersted, who writes: ‘Rights have always served as a party of interest for the bettered in society.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1376	There are two things about fish that I think we can all agree on: it's amazing food, and it creates debate. The representative Cecilie Myrseth referred in his post to the Trollfjord Battle of Hadsel in the Vesterål, which stood in 1890, and pointed out that we are discussing much of the same today. That's why I think it might be worth mentioning that today's fleet structure does not consist of rowing boats and steamboats, and I'm actually very happy about that. The Trollfjord Act of 6 March 1890 in Hadsel in the Vesterålen caused the Lofot Act to come, which was the first regulation of fisheries. If we take the timeline from 1890 until today, an unimaginable number of decisions have been taken to regulate this industry, precisely because it has been necessary, as society has evolved – as then the Minister of Fisheries of the Workers' Party, with the support of the SV and the Center Party, on 9 August 2010, Smoke granted permission to split up the company, where the sea and land were actually separated, i.e. the jets from the land plant, which in turn resulted in the jets company managed by Melbu and Stamsund, the port of the Westland. Yes, then it makes sense in the representative Pollestad that we have forgotten in this message: that there is also fishing south of the country. I just note that the Central Party in the government has made a good contribution to the fact that it is. On the way into the Stortingen this morning, someone hoisted a banner outside the Stortingen where it said: Take the coast back – the fish belongs to the people. Yes, the fish belongs to the people, it also confirms this big message, and in addition, the Sea Resource Act expressly establishes it. I'm actually happy about that. I'm glad that people like Knut Roar Holmøy, who is the managing director of Holmøy Maritime, build new trawlers, who in turn provide hundreds of safe, full-year jobs in the West. This ensures, inter alia, that: many local shops around the Vesterål, because there are people with good jobs who can live there, precisely because of the trawler company. Another example is my neighbor at home at Hernes, who runs on his own boat – a shark, as we call it. So yes, the fish belongs to the people. And we have a system that allows people, such as my neighbor and Holmøy, to create values and employment and secure housing. Today’s decision actually gives predictability that it will continue to be so along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1389	One of the challenges we face in the debate on fisheries policy is how to ensure more processing and value-creating of the fish we have, i.e. the possibility of industrial processing. We agree on some points, both in this message and in the strategy attached to it, which we believe will result in increased processing. Firstly, we want to ensure higher quota utilisation, including: through the rental scheme, which improves the utilisation of allowances. We will bet on new species, such as mesopelagic species and lower trophic species, to increase raw material availability and create new food chains and value chains within the industry. We want to increase the processing standard in the obligation system, which means that one increases the requirement from 70 to 75 pst, considering what is going to be processed ashore, and the obligation to offer throughout Northern Norway in the second round, giving North Norway a right of priority and an opportunity to create a new industry. We want to improve resource control – follow up on the Pedersen selection. We will support the development of new aquaculture species, such as: cod, where we're about to break through right now -- amazing examples of how we get it right now. We want to increase live storage and feeding, which allows us to have higher quality raw material. We assess the auction obligation for frozen raw material, which gives more equal access throughout the country to the raw material. I also want to dissolve in the tool bar where possible, and have a more flexible processing obligation, which makes it possible to create new products, support stock research and development and target actions in the instrument for a technology shift, because it is a technology shift on and off, and we haven't completely taken that into account, I feel. We must support that, and we must ensure that the seafood industry is given a shift in technology. And I don't want to increase company taxes and property taxes, as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV suggest, which will affect the ability to invest in the land industry in particular. I want to focus on nutrient research and product development, as this government has done by doubling this kind of research. I want to ensure the best possible market access for our products, where we are currently working intensively on trade agreements. I want to secure the EEA Agreement, not unearthed alternatives. And at the bottom of all of this, there has to be basic sustainable management.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1398	I would recommend that the Council of State take the word. This is one of the biggest reforms in fisheries policy ever, and the Council of State has only made one contribution – in a very controversial case. We expect the government to defend its own message, especially when there is such a big conflict on the Great Council around it, so much conflict in the Norwegian community when it comes to the main conclusions of the message. It's been mobilized tremendously against the message around the coast and fjord in the last six months, and then we have a government council that seems to think that one should just let the debate pass in silence. There's a kind of picture of the situation that we're now in. Then I just have to make the Storting aware of what's at stake here. It has been criticising the fisheries policy for a long time, and I think most people here know what the criticisms of SV have been – it has been too much concentration of quotas on fewer hands, it has been a favor for those who have access to capital. One has led a policy that has gone beyond recruitment. It is almost impossible for young people to get into the closed fishing with vessels and allowances because of the price gap that has gone through. Of course, this has had great consequences for coastal communities, and we see the results now. Then the Riksrevision comes and gives us absolutely right in that criticism. It's a serious criticism, which is devalued by all the representatives of the government party, while the red-green parties, who also have their seat in government in the period of this conversation, take it seriously. It's especially that one operates like this, that one doesn't look at the report and everyone found it there and takes it seriously. We have proposals today addressing all the issues addressed by the National Audit Office, even in terms of distribution. We ask that one come back with proposals that will reduce our concentration, we ask that one come back with an assessment of proposals that will ensure that the quota and the vessel are connected, we ask that one come back with an assessment, outlining, of how to strengthen the recruitment process. All these proposals vote for the government party, plus the Progress Party as a support wheel, against – all. We have a large law of authority in this country that gives enormous powers both to the government and to the administration. That's what's at stake now, that's the trust that lies behind that authority, and the question now is whether there's legitimacy behind the policy at all. It is such a deep challenge for the state that I ask the Council of State to come up and give us a proper explanation on how to deal with this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1409	It was the representatives of Reiten and Skkelstad who gave me some visits instead, obviously in the belief that I had left the debate, so that I would not get what they said. But I've been following the debate all day and I've been getting all the speeches to Reiten and Skkelstad, without me getting any more convinced for that reason. I've been following the debate all day because fishing is a major thing for SV, unlike for the Christian People's Party and the Left, and that's perhaps one of the reasons why SV is such a big party in North Norway, while the Christian People's Party and the Left are more endangered in the north than even the most vulnerable fish stocks. We were asked what our options were. I think I was very clear on that. Our alternatives are the opposite of the policies of the Christian People's Party and, unfortunately, the Left supports the right forces in driving through today. Where government parties stand for concentration on fewer hands, we stand for a policy to spread resources across – as the only party on the Stortinget – to enter in to transfer quotas from sea to coast, through proposals for ownership restrictions. Where government parties stand for the closure of fisheries for those who are already inside, we want to open them up to more. Where government parties stand for a continued passive industrial policy that will allow our valuable resources not to be processed in the most profitable way for the country, we stand for a policy to increase the processing share. Where the government parties stand to ignore the Riksrevision, we stand to take it seriously, and therefore we answer all the things the Riksrevision has pointed out, in our proposals today. And where the government parties are so uncertain about their own policies that they have to go to the very special step of asking for their own decisions to be made, we are absolutely certain of the consequences of what we stand for, namely that it would be a policy that benefited the many along the coast, at the expense of the few who have been allowed to enrich themselves for too long. In short, we are in favour of the policy that the coastal uprisings are asking for, while the government parties are turning their backs on them. It's an honest thing, but don't think people don't get it with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1418	The representative, Reiten, was the reason why I asked for the floor again. He stood on the platform knowingly and pointed out that the opposition promoted by proposals was unprofessional or irresponsible, or what word he used – we could, like, just make suggestions without thinking about the consequences. Then I would like to ask the representative, Mr Reiten, if it is possible to get an answer: Which of the 22 proposals the Labour Party is promoting, does he consider irresponsible or unaccountable? I must be able to expect that as long as such expressions are used in such a serious debate. I can mention a point from the big message that is very demanding, sometimes unprofessional, as you have discovered things very late. It's about the jet path and taking an open group from the top. I don't think the most people knew about it – until the final processing of the Storing Message. As late as April 16th, the Managing Director of the Fishing Boat said in an interview with the Fishing Sheet that an open group proposal had to be based on a misunderstanding. All of the people we talked to in the industry were unaware of that. The case rapporteur, Tom-Christer Nilsen, said to the Fisheries Sheet no later than 4 May that since the open group is now to be taken from the top, the distribution between the coast and the trawl must be reviewed. So, one has to re-assess the distribution between the coast and the jet. Perhaps the most important thing in the safety of individuals — whether in a seagoing or coastal fleet — is that the allocation of resources is carried out in a thorough, analysed and safe manner. You can't even answer that. So there's the greatest reason to go this way in the seams. In conclusion, this is a direction option. There's no doubt that there's concentration it's about. I want to quote, if I may, Jahn-Arill Forest Holt and his builder: "Corn the hammer, Edvard, you need him well now when the door is to be slammed again? For in the outlying, Edvard, no man shall dwell. You're going to the city, my friend. And your scar, Edvard, you can do with him. Is the doors hanging on their heels too well? That's perhaps what's going to be the final phase of the 'direction' that the majority staked out here, without seeing any consequences of what they're doing. This is a great regret.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1442	The representative Pollestad has spoken and criticized the majority, and in particular the Advance Party, for introducing new taxes. For the Progress Party, we have spent time from the government providing the quota notification to meet and listen to the fishing industry. The fee to which Pollestad refers has been proposed by the industry itself as their contribution to research and management, as a substitute for the revenue a State holding of allowances would have contributed. We're listening to the industry. That's why we also say no to government allowance stocks and the conversion of structural allowances. The red-green opposition has spent most of its speaking time suspending the quota notification and on the Riksrevision report. I understand. When you look at the proposals of the red-green opposition in the context of the quota notification, the red-green policy on which the Sandøen representative was involved, it bursts in every direction. The fishing industry can be very happy that it is not the parties that govern today. When you look at the evolution in the landing of fresh cod from 2004 to 2018, it's actually very positive for my home country, Finnmark. Landing of fresh cod is likely to have a greater impact on employment where it is landed. North Norway has increased its share of cod landing overall, but there are differences in the development between the counties. Unfortunately, there has been a decline in landings in the Nordic countries, while Finnmark has seen the largest increase in the proportion of landings during the period considered by the National Audit Office. Båtsfjord has largely positioned itself as the fishing capital in Norway and also thrones on top as the cod capital, with the largest landing of cod in Norway. In addition, municipalities such as Måsøy and Nordkapp, the representative of Adelsten Iversen’s home municipality Hasvik, Berlevåg, Gamvik and Vardø have seen an increase in the period that the Riksrevision has seen. Of the municipalities that have increased their share of cod landing, most are in eastern Finland. So development has been positive for my home country, and there are good opportunities to create more rural jobs. The situation and the future are not as dark as the Adelsten Iversen representative would like to present it. The Party considers that it is important and appropriate to deal with the quota notification now because it is something that an approximate overall fishing industry wants. It is important to clarify further the predictability and stability of the fishing industry in developing the industry in the right direction. The aim of the Progress Party is to create more profitable full-year jobs in the rural industry as well. Then a profitable fishing fleet and a varied fleet structure are important. It contributes to the notification of allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1455	The representative of Other N. Skelstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1460	To be crystal clear in terms of the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, we do not trivialise the criticism of the Riksrevision. We had also answered a lot of it in many ways without having seen the Riksrevision, and we have now responded to most of this debate. So it's a little interesting that the representative Lysbakken, who listens from his office, obviously, has not quite managed to address everything. In the red-green – we're going to call it – the coalition is still two of the batches very keen on co-fishing, which is also a very large egg concentration. There's nothing to say about how it's going to be in the future. The representative Knag Fylkesnes still has a minute left, so I want to ask him: Is it so that SV will open the closed group for more people to come to?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1470	In my previous post I came within a few of the concrete red-green suggestions. Now I see that the Council of State has signed up, and then I wonder whether the Council of State could say something related to proposal No. 5, which comes from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV. For Coast and Fjord, the Council of State has stated that he agrees that it may be natural to reconsider whether rules should be introduced, since in view of ownership restrictions in the coastal fishing fleet, which is the concrete proposal from us. It would have been very nice if the Council of State were still positive to that, and if he could then recommend the government parties to vote in favour of that proposal, so that we can adopt it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1475	Work on a national audit report is comprehensive and thorough and involves a significant interaction between the Riksrevision and the department concerned. The point of interaction is to clarify the facts of the case and to ensure that the conclusions of the Riksrevision are not misunderstood in relation to what is the ministry's best opinion. So it's a close dialogue. That's why I said it's very special, what's in the Riksrevision final comment on page 24 of the report: ‘The Court of Auditors notes that the Ministry considers that it is unclear what concrete changes to the quota system considered by the Riksaudition to have had unintended consequences.’ So it's unclear, and in a situation where the point was just to clarify, where the ministry has had a number of possibilities to create that clarity. And yet it's unclear. I haven't seen the equivalent before. For any government council, its honour is to respond to the National Audit Office's requests for clarity. I have to ask the Council of State to come up and explain why we have come into this situation. Furthermore, Sjømat Norway and the Fiskarlag in the north have raised ownership restrictions, and there is also something that the Riksrevision has addressed. In its report, the National Audit Service recommends that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries ‘estimate to impose owner-concentration restrictions on the coastal fleet and/or other measures to limit owner-concentration’. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State follow up on that point? That is the proposal by Mr Nilsen and others. that a ‘calls on the government – before implementation – to carry out an impact assessment of any elements of the decisions’, as it is called. My question is, what number of Roman recommendations from the government parties will the Council of State make? I expect that there has been a dialogue between the relevant government council and the government parties before submitting such a proposal, and then you have to think about what we are talking about. Finally, fisheries policy will soon be back to the main hall when the national audit report is being examined. Until then, I would just like to stress that it must be mobilised along the coast for a fisheries policy alternative that governs capital forces, so that there will be viable societies in, for example. Loppa and Gamvik in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1491	The representative Steinar Reiten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1496	An answer to the representative of Aasland: I do not remember saying in my post that some of the proposals to the Workers' Party were unprofessional. If I said that, I apologize for that. However, I am aware of what I said when the opposition is making proposals, it is part of the Storting's curfew that one knows that proposals will not usually be adopted, and that they are therefore not subject to a clause asking for them to be properly evaluated. I think we all agree on that. So finally, the last post of the representative Light Hill. I'm going to study the record thoroughly in retrospect. I found it so obvious that Lysbakken said that he did not think there was a need to follow-up proposals from SV because they were so good that they stood without an impact assessment. In that case, there's a statement from the pulpit of the Storting that's going to stand up for the history books.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1503	There is always a risk of taking when someone wants to thank for the debate. We're probably going to bother with these questions further, and I'm glad. This year we will have a double round of fisheries policy in Stortinget, and I hope that I will help to ensure that it is good quality, as the Riksrevision wants. I also look forward to the round around the National Audit Office's investigation, because it contains many interesting information that it is important to follow up. I was challenged by what we do about this quota notification that follows up the Riksrevision. Then I would like to point out something that I experience has not been pointed out – at least not by the opposition – in this debate. The first is that if we talk about changing and slowing down the progress towards larger ships in the coastal fleet, the first thing we have to do is close the bulkheads between the groups of vessels. We propose to do that in connection with this message. That's an important part of it. The second, such as the Riksrevision, among others. critically, is the co-fishing system. We're pointing to a horizon for co-fishing with itself. So it's not that simple that all the samfishing is something that should be a challenge. For example, in some fisheries it is necessary to co-fish in order to obtain a reasonable catch. We have other recruitment schemes that make the entrance ticket to the recruitment system become for everyone, and all under 30 years of age get an open-group recruitment supplement. Not least the clarification of the setbacks to the groups means that we will spread ownership, and it could make sure to accommodate some of the comments that the Riksrevision has had. There is one proposal that I would like to add to two words, because that is something we have had questions about, and that is the proposal to ban the sale of vessels with fishing permits. So that's what the Central Party and the SV's use of words are prohibiting the sale of vessels with allowances. What we were presented there is that no one should lose significantly on it. The representative then described during the debate how he thought it would be handled, and he described it in such a way that there would be a depreciation scheme for allowances, i.e. for the quota. It is a substance that is not owned by the company that was then supposed to depreciate it formally. The second is that if we use this scheme, one after today's rates and tax rates will only get 22 pst. of what you've put in. That I would say is more than a significant loss. This will lead to major challenges for the part of the industry that would be covered by such a proposal. I thank you for the debate and look forward to new rounds of fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1522	I've had several challenges. I hope I can answer at least the very most of them. The first came well at the beginning of the debate, where the responsibility for the fathership of the quota notification was called for, that it was somewhat unclear. Then it is well relevant to say that this with unclear fatherhood is a rather familiar problem situation along the coast! The representative of Pollestad had a question about Decision III. I would then like to reply that the proposal in the Communication was about the allocation of structural gains resulting from the extension of structural quotas. The extension of structural quotas is not now adopted and the notification has not consistently determined the allocation of structural quotas when that time limit occurs, because we have not made proposals in the communication on how to do so, when that time comes, in 2028. That is why this question needs to be addressed in more detail. In addition, we will have close dialogue with industry and in good tradition find good solutions. That's why I can't answer here and now what the consequences of Decision III are. Proper treatment is to assess the consequences and then return to the Storting in an appropriate manner. So the criticism from the National Audit Office is mentioned several times. Of course, I just have to stress, as I have said several times, that we take the criticism and the recommendations very seriously, and we will follow up on all the points in the Riksaudition report, including what the representative of the Workers' Party and the representative of Lundtigen asked for. I also want to say that I think it really is quite broad consensus. There may be different roads to Rome, but there is quite a broad consensus that there are great opportunities in the fishing industry – an eternal renewable industry for our nation, of which very many of us are very proud, and where there are very many capable, good people with good implementation. Focusing on these possibilities, whether it's getting more processing, or getting a larger share of the value creation, is also very important for this government. It is also important to ensure that we have market access, that we achieve the continued good and sustainable management of fish resources, and not least that we maintain a balance in the allocation of resources over time. Then I think I've been through some of the challenges I got from the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1539	The representative of Geir Adelsten Iversen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1544	I have to answer a little bit that the Progress Party tells me that things are going very well on the coast. I wonder if the Progress Party has come to realize that there is a huge stopper pipe going on. There was a virtual case on Facebook two to three days ago where there were 40,000 participants. So it's a huge commitment around what we're dealing with right now. I think it's time someone in this room might take a walk around and look, not only at the larger places, but also at the smaller ones. The exposure is big now, and people want something quite different from what it's added up to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1555	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1560	Very quickly: we draw proposal No. 26, which is about external scrutiny after the Riksrevision. It's a question we'll come back to when we're dealing with the National Audit Office's report. It was the one. The criticism that came from the Christian People's Party is more and more difficult to understand what one thinks about. What is it aimed at? Here, one of the government parties has suggested to lower the abbreviation by 10 pst, but the consequences have not been resolved in any way. There's only one thing I've done. We suggest increasing her to 50 pst. I don't see what's problematic about that. Similarly, in view of the other proposals we have: among other things, the proposal to amend the obligation regime for cod trawlers, on behalf of the government, has been settled and examined for three rounds. The conclusion of the last round we have landed on: wind up the scheme and take the fish back to the coast. Then it's the 28-meter limit, which was the old system. It's really inexplicable to me what the criticism from the Christian People's Party is really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1570	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1575	I can assure the representative, Mr Reiten, that we are making proposals with the intention of obtaining a majority for them in the Chamber, and I would strongly recommend that the representatives of the Christian People's Party vote for the Labour Party's proposal, because they are probably much more in line with the Christian People's Party's soul than the Christian People's Party is doing along with the other right-wing parties in the Grand Chamber. But I hope I can get an answer from the Council of State on the following: One of the important things in Norwegian fisheries policy that creates conflict is the allocation of resources. A part of what now comes up as both proposals, which are leading the big news, is precisely the allocation of resources between the different fleet groups and how to deal with it. We don't see the full consequence of what is now being adopted. When this is verified, will the Storting get a separate case about the allocation of resources within fisheries, so that the Storting can finalise what the Storting is now dealing with without knowing what we are actually dealing with? Can the Council of State give a clear answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1582	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1587	What is happening now, I must say once again, is very regrettable. I believe that this debate has only raised more questions than we had before we entered the hall. It is demanding, and we do not get any answers to the consequences of the proposal made by the government parties this morning on impact assessment. We don't know. And now we even have some doubts about the distribution of resources. It's also been recorded in the media. The rapporteur has even said that in the media – perhaps we have to look at the distribution of resources? So I want to answer what's going on when we break up in this hall. When will there be a new thing? What are we going to do? So to the end: the left is completely rehearsed about the co-fishing system. The working party has been involved in the implementation of a scheme. Yes, we have managed the fisheries policy, but we also take responsibility now and say: we need to make new assessments, because the Riks revision has come up with pressing criticism. That's true of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1594	The representative Geir Pollestad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1599	I would like the Minister of Fisheries to clarify what is the envisaged process associated with Romantic Decision III, which is to be settled after it has been agreed. Would you like to refer this matter to the Storting again, or would you like to suggest to the government that they have been given an authority to do this, only it will be done? I believe that the Minister for Fisheries must respond to this before the debate is over. Another question that the Minister for Fisheries has to answer is the time to expect the new fish fee, or the cod fee, the rent, the herring fee, the herring fee, the mackerel fee – dear children have many names, says the Progress Party. But what time can you expect her to come to the Storting? Will it be in the context of the State budget 2021, or will it be before that time? I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Central Party is in favour of proposal No. 18, 19 and 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1608	First, I have to repeat that it is important for the government to continue a balanced distribution of resources. It is stated in the Government Declaration, and it is also in line with the quota notification. I cannot, in terms of the questions that Pollestad – and to the extent also Aasland – ask, say here and now in detail how we get back to the Stortinget, but we should do it in an appropriate and, of course, in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1613	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1630	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1637	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in dealing with the matter. The Workers' Party proposes a package of measures to ensure greater seriousness in the fishing industry. The six proposals proposed in the package are aimed at ensuring competence, decent pay and working conditions and more active control of the fishing industry in order to overcome, among others, the need to: labour-life crime. It's an important thing to get hold of. The actions of the a-krim centre in Northernland against fishing, the so-called Blue Silence action, revealed working conditions by which the Norwegian fishing industry cannot be known. The Economic and Social Committee shows in its attitude that the government has already done a great deal. For example, broad-based cooperation has been established. It is important to overcome the criminality of working life, which tends to span the responsibilities of several agencies. The Economic and Social Committee also points out that the marine food and fish industry itself is actively involved in combating the crime of labour. It's positive, but it should just be missing. The industry itself has everything to lose on this, not least in reputation. There are already clear rules on pay and working conditions in today's legislation for the fishing industry. An example is the regulation on the partial publication of a collective bargaining agreement for fish industry holdings, which sets rates for minimum wages and additional rates for shiftwork. Recent changes in the Working Environment Act tighten the conditions for hiring out staff. The Working Environment Act also clarifies that a hired worker from a manning undertaking must be guaranteed at least the conditions of a permanent employee with the same type of work. The majority of the Committee, including the Advance Party, considers that these provisions are good enough to ensure good working conditions in the industry. There is therefore no need for further provisions, but those that exist must be complied with and complied with. Here the a-krim centres do a very important job. It was a very important act on the part of the government to establish a-krim centres in several places in the country. In this proposal, the Workers' Party wishes to continue the special arrangements for permitting in the fishing industry. The majority point to the fact that proposals for the details of such a derogation are already under preparation in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1652	The Labour Party has promoted this proposal because we are genuinely concerned about what we see in the important maritime food industry. We're worried that crime and social dumping are about to get stuck in one of our most important industries. There have been a number of headlines in the media that have revealed the state of this industry. We see that the labour force is being exploited most severely on land. And it's unfortunately also that you can see trends of the same at sea. We cannot be aware that some unprofessional players are jeopardizing the reputation of the entire fishing industry. That is why we want the government to make concrete proposals in a package of measures to ensure more seriousness, competence and decent pay and working conditions, in this round in the fishing industry. So there's a majority in the committee to avoid getting more political action. It's hard to understand, but I've been in debates even outside this room with many of the same representatives, and I want to say that in many ways it's almost under-communicated how gross it is, what's happening. Reference is made to existing laws. You show that you have the tools you need. I totally disagree with that. We need so much more. It's actually very bad what we see, and it might be just the top of the iceberg. We politicians have to act – and quickly. I experienced strong support for our proposals in the hearing. It made the impression to hear the Labour Inspectorate and the a-krim centres briefing on what they have found out. Thus, the fishing industry is designated as a risk industry. There's a lot of temporaryity and a lot of renting. Fortunately, we've been exposed a lot, but what are they saying to us in the committee? It's that they lack resources. There are not enough people to reveal. They have quite demanding rounds to carry out checks. More resources, stricter legislation and more controls are needed. So I think in this case we should actually be able to stand together to put in place a package of measures to take a cross-political responsibility to stop what is completely unsustainable in one of our finest industries. Finally, I would like to address the proposal we are behind with the Senterpartiet and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1663	Then the representative Cecilie Myrseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1668	There's one suggestion in the case, and there's the Center Party behind with the SV and the Labour Party. For us, it is important, when we want to develop the fishing industry along the coast, that it is attractive to work there also for Norwegian youth who want a future within the fishing industry. I think it's absolutely crucial to ensure that we have proper pay and working conditions, and that we do more than what we do today to secure it. The centre party also has a number of other proposals to strengthen the attractiveness of the fishing industry, including: we believe that modernisation and automation can make it more attractive to search for a job there. It surprises me that the Government Party and the Advance Party do not want to be on this proposal that the opposition has made, because it is an important proposal, it is a right proposal, and it is a proposal that it is possible for the government to follow up, if they want to. When they now speak against, it is certainly an expression of a lack of will, and one thing is not then to get to it lifted for the fishing industry – which at least the centre party thinks is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1679	We in the SV support the proposal and accept it. It is a little strange that there is such a cool reception for this proposal from the government party with the Progress Party as a support wheel. We had a hearing about this. There is wide support for running actions. The current game is a lot. Of course, it's the social dimensions of how one treats people, which are quite unlikely. The second is that this undermines the industry in general by allowing someone to operate and exploit people in this way, giving them much worse pay and working conditions and thus offering prices that undermine those who are serious in the industry. This weakens the basis of the general fishing industry. On the same line as jux on the ocean and those things are this thing that one has to deal with resolutely and hard. Then it is strange that the government party is on a classic wait-and-see line, which is probably why this has been allowed to grow. In many areas, we see that management and control are weakened in this industry, and then there is an alternative to Stortinget that wants a completely different direction. We don't see what the important arguments against doing this are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1688	The next speaker is Tom-Christer Nilsen. The President is excited about the appropriate song by Ivar Aasen, the representative of Nilsen, to start this article with!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1693	‘To be prepared for all, no one can do’ – is that what the president was after in this particular matter? I'm actually glad that the opposition has taken up this proposal, because it gives us the opportunity to discuss a challenge that is serious and that we have to take seriously. So it's not like we're in favour of exactly this proposal, but I hope and believe that this is an area where we can further cooperate across the dividing lines of the Storting to ensure that we hit and prevent the crime that's revealed, among other things. by the a-krim centre in the north. These a-krim centres were established and strengthened during this government, and I would like them to continue to expand and strengthen their risk-based supervision that has revealed these crimes. Initially, I believe that the law is broadly in line with this. What's important is to make sure that we get the control that causes this state to be revealed. That is to say to give clear and clear notice that what has been discovered and revealed by the a-krim centres in the north is completely unacceptable. I hope they will continue, and we agree to support them continuing their control activities so that we can find out if there are more. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is a risk-based supervision they have implemented. That is, they've picked out those they've been overseeing, based on who they were most likely to find something with. They found something there, and that's good. It shows that their system is working, and that they're hitting and revealing illegal activity. Then I hope that they will continue to do so, that we can work together to ensure that the legislation and measures are taken better, and that together we can ensure that that part of the industry – and that is the largest part of the industry – that operates law-abiding, decent and proper, does not actually get any inconvenience because of those who choose not to follow the legislation, or who move outside and on the wrong side of the famous grey zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1706	The proposal taken is important. Crime at work and the exploitation of the labour force are totally unacceptable. In Norway, we have good traditions to ensure the seriousness of business and fisheries through solid tripartite cooperation between trade unions, business associations and administrations. The revelations we have seen in the fishing industry in recent times are discouraging, and we are taking this very seriously in the Left. We have a good code to prevent such an impunity for people. Still, there's always someone who breaks the rules. This means that we have to follow up, update legislation and work hard on what challenges the Norwegian model with proper working conditions. In recent years, we have put in place several measures to ensure the seriousness of the fishing industry, we have put in place a more active use of the Labour Inspectorate and labour-criminal centres against the fishing industry, and we have established broad-based cooperation which is an important measure in the field of labour-life crime, and the fisheries authorities in the Nordic countries are firmly involved. Clear rules on pay and working conditions in the fisheries industry are provided for in current legislation. Regulation of 12 October 2018 on the partial publication of a collective bargaining agreement for fishing industry establishments lays down rates for minimum wages and supplements in the case of shiftwork. The regulation applies to trade union and manufacturing workers with related operations and the responsibility is clear. On 1 January 2019, changes were made to the Working Environment Act such as: means that the terms of the hiring-in of temporary staff companies, pursuant to Sections 14 to 12 of the Act, were further strengthened. The Working Environment Act § 14-12 a clarifies that hired workers from manning enterprises ‘at least the conditions that would apply if the employee had been employed by the lessee in order to carry out the same work are ensured’. In recent years, the government has implemented several important and targeted measures to combat labour-related crime and to ensure orderly conditions in Norwegian working life. In addition to changes in the Working Environment Act, the government has established anti-criminal centres in several places in the country. Co-location of Labour Inspectorate, Nav, Police and Tax Administration personnel ensures a coordinated and effective response to work-life crime. The operation ‘Blue Silence’ undertaken by the a-krim centre in Bodø in 2019 to identify and detect offences and irregularities in the fishing industry in Northern Ireland shows that the measures taken by the government have been successful and work as intended. It is positive that the industry itself points out that the conditions found in parts of the fishing industry are unacceptable and that they have raised that issue on both the labour and employers sides. It is good that the industry itself is clear and signals that they are taking a break from any kind of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1726	There should be no doubt that we will have decent pay and working conditions in Norway. The conditions that have been identified in parts of the fishing industry are sympathetic and something that we do not accept in Norway. What has been revealed is primarily bad for the people affected, but in the next round it is also devastating for the reputation of Norwegian seafood and for the competitive conditions of the industry. It is unacceptable when unfair operators obtain an unfair competitive advantage by breaking laws and regulations. On 1 January 2019, important changes were made to the Working Environment Act, such as: meant that the terms of hiring-in from manning undertakings, pursuant to Sections 14 to 12 of the Act, were strengthened. A clarification of the concept of ‘permanent employment’ was also introduced in the Working Environment Act. In addition, the obligation to provide information on working time was clarified in the work contract, which should contribute to better predictability, inter alia. when working irregularly. The Working Environment Act § 14-12 a clarifies that hired workers from temporary employment agencies must at least be ‘secured the conditions that would apply if the employee had been employed by the lessee in order to carry out the same work’. There is a clear and clear regulation on wage and working conditions in the fishing industry, which is not to be misunderstood and which all actors are to follow. It is widely agreed both politically and in the maritime food industry that the conditions in parts of the fishing industry, such as: was discovered by the a-krim centre in Northern Ireland during 2019, is completely unacceptable and must be severely reduced. In recent years, the government has implemented several important and targeted measures to combat labour-related crime and to ensure orderly conditions in Norwegian working life. As previous speakers have pointed out, in addition to the Working Environment Act, one has established anti-criminal centres in Oslo, Tønsberg, Stavanger, Kristiansand, Bergen, Trondheim and Bodø. In view of this, it is natural that the government, on the basis of the documented and good impact of the work of the a-krim centres, continuously assesses the need for increased resources for the existing centres and the possible establishment of new a-krim centres against the development of the labour market. We therefore believe that measures to combat crime at work in the fishing industry are being taken through the measures proposed by the government and therefore do not see the need to vote in favour of the opposition's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1740	I would first like to stress that in this matter we have had close contact with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is constitutionally responsible for the field of working life. As we are gradually moving out of the corona crisis, it may be even more important to continue to work to combat labour-life crime in the fishing industry. I share the ambition of the representatives behind the proposal to combat unprofessional activity in the fishing industry, and it seems that there is a broad consensus on that. The vast majority of those engaged in the maritime food industry do well, and this reflects Norwegian employment in general. The government’s strategy against labour crime was revised in 2019, in close cooperation with the social partners. An important step is the establishment of broad cooperation between public authorities. According to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the level of crime at work is no longer increasing. Authorities are more visible than before and establishments are now at higher risk of being detected. In 2019, the Resource Control Committee delivered an investigation which included: emphasises the need to strengthen multidisciplinary cooperation to combat fishing crime, an important step towards combating the abuse of vulnerable labour in the fisheries sector. The investigation has been at the hearing, and I am very pleased with the many good consultation answers we have received. We are now working on a follow-up to hearing replies. This is also a global problem. Therefore, in 2018, Norway took the initiative to make a declaration against cross-border organised crime in the global fisheries sector. Through the Blue Justice Initiative, Norway addresses human trafficking and abuse of vulnerable labour in the global fisheries sector in cooperation with relevant international organisations. I would like to thank the a-krim centre in Northern Ireland for the important job that has been done to reveal completely unacceptable conditions in the industry. What has been revealed is bad for the people affected. It is also devastating for the reputation of Norwegian seafood industry and for the competitive conditions of the industry. The individual economic operator must bear the primary responsibility for compliance with legislation and proper treatment of workers. As Minister of Fisheries and Food, I will do my best to continue working to combat totally unacceptable working conditions in the fishing industry. Non-lawful persons shall be taken and prevented from obtaining an unfair advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1759	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1764	Let me first say that when the Workers' Party promoted this proposal, it was with good intent and not least for the reputation of the fishing industry. Most of them deal with the legislation and operate their industry with respect for the employees and handle it in an excellent way. It's the opposite cases that destroy. That is what we need to focus on, and that is what we are doing in this proposal. It is totally unacceptable, whether there are ten people, one human being or one hundred people, who are being exploited or in a situation where you are not being paid, or who have working conditions other than what you should have. Although a lot has been done well, we know very well that there is still a lot to be done with the exploitation of very ordinary workers. The council says he'll do his best to get rid of this. What is the ‘best’ of the Council of States to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1771	I must first say that I fully agree with the representative – that is totally unacceptable. At my best, I mean to continue working on things that have proved to be working, and to bet more on the a-krim centres, which the government has also done. Not least, I will also have good and close cooperation between various public bodies, and of course also in close cooperation with the social organisations. I think these things are on a good track. I think there is a broad consensus that this is totally unacceptable, and I support the representative in that very way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1776	I share the view that the a-krim centres are important, and therefore we also write in a note: ‘These members consider that it is necessary to consider setting up a separate a-krim centre for Finnmark and Troms and that it is also necessary to assess whether a separate a-krim centre for the fishing industry should be established.’ Are there opinions to which the Council of State subscribes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1786	To the representative, I have to say that right here I can't say whether it's best to establish it in Finnmark, Troms or elsewhere, but at least we want to bet more on the a-krim centers, which so far have given good results. I'll have to bring it with me as a recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1791	It's good that he takes it with him as a recording, but I think it's important if you're going to get rid of the crime of working life across the board, that you're clear that you need to use more resources, and -- let's say -- implement more skills, get more arrangements in place just to get rid of it. Then, as the Council of State itself says, the a-krim centres must be placed in close proximity to where the actual problems are and where the fishing resources and activity are greatest. Troms and Finnmark are such an area. To ask very specifically, will the Council of State take the initiative to set up its own a-krim centre for the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1796	I will at least promise that we will assess it. The A-crime centre in Bodø I have not yet been able to visit because of the Korona crisis and home office, but it is one of the first to visit. In addition, at the top of what is going on in the control and follow-up of fish crime, it is very important to get better measures also in the area of resource control. I will definitely assess the input from the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1801	I think it's positive. I expect the Council of State to return to the Storting with the establishment of its own a-krim centre for the fishing industry, because it is so essential. But can the Council of State give some good arguments for the majority to vote today on what is the minority's proposal in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1806	It's a little risky for me that represents the government, on behalf of a majority in the Grand Duchy, to explain how they justify their vote. But it is mentioned in several articles earlier: the reason is not that you disagree with the intention, you have the same ambitions, but you think that with what is done and has been done, you are on the right track, and you want to move on in the same track.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1811	I would like to challenge the Council of State to provide any reasons why one should not be able to do so, but a concrete thing that is a challenge, where we very soon see that the lack of seriousness occurs in working life, is where there is rent instead of fixed-term employment. In the fishing industry in particular and perhaps on board the boats there is a lot of use of rental. Would the Council of State have an active involvement and take an active initiative to limit rentals and replace them with permanent employment as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1817	I think, on a general basis, it's an advantage that you have regular employment. But then it's also like in business, at least in some industries, you need some flexibility. I think you have to deal with that. There have been long discussions about where the limit is going to go there, but I'm recording that there are major seasonal variations, especially in the fishing industry, so there is a need for some flexibility there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1822	I think it's quite essential to think about the situation with regard to ordinary workers who are being exploited by capital, even if it's along the coast, and therefore a last question: One of the things we think is quite essential, and perhaps it's also important to think about, is the fact that it's relatively easy to exploit workers. It's easy to break the law, and it's hard to get caught. If the Council of State shares that view, there may be one thing in this context that can help to make a positive impact, and that is that a person gets more stringent sanctions in the event of a breach of the provisions of the Working Environment Act. Will the Council of State take the initiative to impose more stringent sanctions on those who violate the Working Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1827	I have to point out that it is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that has the constitutional responsibility for it, so it is a matter which must primarily be addressed with them. I cannot answer on behalf of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1832	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1839	We were all shocked by the revelations of the a-crime centre in Northern Ireland this winter. The fact that workers are treated in this way in Norway and today, we did not believe – non-payment, lack of health, the environment and safety – that they are bound to hire an employer who keeps a lot of the wages and salaries in rent for overnight stays. The fact that we were so shocked and too little knew about these conditions shows that one of the proposals we wanted to have a majority today – namely to monitor the use of foreign labour, the use of rents – had earned a majority. It is the fish farms that are responsible; there is no doubt, but there is a need for a risk of detection. The A-crime centre itself says they don't have the resources to do all the research they want. In Northern Ireland, they have tried to take specific responsibility for the fishing industry, but they also have many other supervision to take. The Workers' Party has therefore requested greater appropriations for the a-krim centres. It is also a problem that information flows too little freely between the a-krim centres, i.e. the Labour Inspectorate, the tax office, the police and the Nav. They are too bound by professional secrecy. They also want their own tip phone. They don't have the right to have that today. You have to contact one of the floors. The Labour Inspectorate in Tromsø was very clear during the hearing on this matter that they spend many days on one supervision. It's about where our fish farms are – in places far away from the offices of the Labour Inspectorate in Tromsø – and it can take several days just to get there. If there is an overnight offer in the village, they are afraid to order there, because then the supervision would be notified, only through it. We believe that we should have looked at the situation with regard to the rental and use of foreign labour under unworthy conditions, and have therefore proposed it. We want more active use of the Labour Inspectorate and the a-krim centre towards the fishing industry. The government parties say: there is no need to bring any action package for this. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1852	One thing we are absolutely sure about through the two matters we have now dealt with is that there is work-life crime in the fishing industry. We know that every day ordinary people are exploited. A normal day is someone who is not paid what they should have, must work longer than you are allowed to, or be exposed to a health, environmental and safety environment that is demanding and challenging. We know that. I know that no matter how much we work to get everything that we want it to be, there will be someone who, in their mind to earn even more, chooses to exploit other people for their own benefit. That's the big problem. So when we are promoting a proposal that I think is basically striking, in order to try to do something more than what has been done up to now, the majority in this Chamber chooses to say that it is not necessary to vote for such proposals because there is so much good going on. It's amazing. There is no danger in these proposals of pointing out that renting should be restricted for the benefit of fixed-term employment, even though I also agree that the fishing industry must occasionally use rentals. It should be possible to put some premises on the table also from the Stortinget side. It is likely that you should monitor it to learn more about the rental and use of temporary employment agencies. One should know more about how one might think of stricter sanctions, etc. One should know how one can strengthen fixed employment to a greater extent, just to get serious. One should know a little about the development of the a-krim centres in order to meet the needs of the fishing industry – whether it is in Troms and Finnmark, or whether it is elsewhere – that there should be some who have explicit competence, specific competence and the main focus on the fishing industry. It should have been a matter for a Minister of Fisheries to say to the Stortinget that he is his goal. But he's not gonna make it. The positioning parties are also unable to explode from involvement in this matter, most likely because it does not mean so much to them. I think it is a pity that simple proposals are being voted down in Stortinget – simple proposals that, perhaps over time, would have helped some very common people in a difficult situation. That's what this is about. The will to make changes is not present among the right parties of the Stortinget. That the Progress Party does not support proposals that intend to build up among ordinary people, I understand, but that the Christian People's Party and the Right actually choose to vote it down, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1861	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1878	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1885	I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter. The Storting asked the government in a decision in January 2017 to propose a media responsibility law, and today we adopt it, the most important law for the press. It's really historic. I think the purpose paragraph says it quite nicely: ‘The law shall facilitate an open and informed public conversation by ensuring editorial independence and establishing clear responsibilities for the content published in editorial journals.’;» As rapporteur, I am also pleased that the Committee delivers an attitude that is consistent with that, most of all. I would like to mention in particular two areas where the Committee has worked together on some solutions that have been important for the press. The first is the delimitation of the scope of the law. The legislative proposal will apply to media engaged in both production and publication. In other words, for example: news agencies such as NTB or production companies producing documentaries fall outside the scope of the law. The reasons which the law must take on clear responsibilities weigh heavily, but there have been good objections to this. The editorials that also publish content produced by others are in many ways awarded to the manufacturer – to use that word – jobs and press ethics, among others. when publishing a notification from NTB or a document from a production company. Adherence to the method, source use, will be both difficult and not desirable, says the press itself. It is therefore important that the Committee has agreed that it may be appropriate that news agencies providing the media covered by the Media Liability Act should also be able to accept as quality-controlled content and be held responsible for the substance they produce. At the same time, an unclear liability situation should be avoided. A unanimous committee therefore proposes to ask the government to extend the scope of the law and come back to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis. The other area I want to point out in the end is corporate punishment. For the media, it is very important for their role and for the editor’s independence that corporate sanctions are not applied against media companies. That is why we wanted a derogation from that provision of the penal code. The Committee supports that principle, states that that threshold should be high and asks the government to follow up on practice and to consider any changes that might occur. With that, I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1901	This is a matter the Labour Party has been waiting for a long time. We have to go all the way back to the session 2015-2016 to find the initiative Arbeiderpartiet at the time in Document 8:102, which resulted in the government being asked to come back with a media responsibility law that would cover the entire breadth of media in a new digital time. It's taken time, but we're glad we're finally here and can make this decision. The background was a new media everyday. We initially thought that the Internet would make us all informed and active. So it turns out that we might as well be disinformed and passive. It's a flood of information that it's hard for individuals to sort out. In fact, we are more dependent on good, quality-oriented, high-trusted media than ever before. In part, there are many new actors who do not operate under any form of press ethics or editorial responsibility. At the same time, the established media may also experience a greater pressure – a pressure from the unprofessional, a pressure from market departments to have clicks and profits, and a pressure on competition between media companies, where the deadline for the longest time has gone from once a day to every minute and every second. The media are called the fourth state power – and they have a lot of power. With power comes responsibility, and with power also follows what the Americans call "Checks and Balances" – that everyone with power must be able to succeed and have a grip on their business. Most journalists in media houses work actively and thoroughly with press ethics and media responsibility. Nevertheless, the media sector also needs a framework, especially at a time when competition is so much greater. In Norway, a model has been chosen where the press is very much self-directed — a self-justice, a system of its own. But civil society also has the right and the duty to establish a framework. What we're doing today is an important cleanup in that way. It's a non-discrimination. It's a framework. And I think that in the future will be up to the press itself, the media actors themselves, which changes might be necessary. In principle, this is a decision that gives great confidence, but therefore also a great responsibility for the media actors themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1912	May 3 was the day of freedom of the press. In times of crisis, it is particularly important that we are informed and receive answers to our questions. Only independent journalism and a variety of media can assure us. I take the opportunity to congratulate you on the day. It is tempting to say that politics takes time. The establishment of the media diversity committee in 2009 may be the starting point for work on this law, although the order has changed several times in the course of the work. Current responsibilities in the media field are largely pre-designed for the development of online and digital forms of production and dissemination, where users and actors outside the established media have been given a completely new position in the media landscape. The aim of the proposed changes is to clarify journalistic and editorial responsibilities, while strengthening editorial freedom. It is also worth noting that there was broad support for the main lines of the Media Liability Act at the open hearing. Today, we go from partially out-of-court special rules in three different laws to a new common law. Let me also express satisfaction with the fact that the committee was finally reunited around everything most in the mood, but some shades are. Source protection in line with Sweden is one such area. The red-green parties want a source protection with an investigation ban, while we on the part of the government parties stress that we already have a strong source protection in Norway. We also point out that the Ministry of Justice believes that there is no basis for such a ban. Another area of disagreement is the responsibility of editors. SV wants sole responsibility here, while the rest of the committee does not support this. Such exclusive liability is in breach of Norwegian law, which is that legal liability is placed with the person who has performed the defamation act. I am pleased that a joint committee agreed to ask the government to investigate whether the scope of the law can be extended to news agencies as well. I have no doubt that it will enhance the quality assurance of the journalistic manufacturing environment. News agencies and manufacturing agencies have editorial responsibility for what they deliver, both legally and ethically. Finally, I would like to make a visit to something that was obviously 'fake news' from the Advance Party before the weekend. The right has never been able to support alternative media. That's why we're not in that part of the comment either. However, it should not surprise many when we support the fact that public authorities should as far as possible treat all editor-driven journalistic media in a non-discriminatory manner. My interpretation of just editor-driven journalistic media is that they are subject to the press's self-determination system, and that they follow Be careful with the poster and the Editor's poster.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1927	Time doesn't stand still. On the contrary, a lot has happened both in the way we consume news information, and in what platforms we use. That is why this law is important and necessary to update the law, depending on how people actually consume news material. Several of the speakers before me have been concerned with some of the most important elements of this case. We support the fact that we are also looking at whether the news agencies should be included in the areas covered by this law, precisely because for ordinary people, the news they read on their regular media is little different from what they read on their ordinary media, for example. an agency such as NTB or written by the editor’s own journalists. We also support today's source protection. We have a strong source protection in Norway. It's important, it's good. It is important for the press and the necessary voices, alerts and others to express their views and voices, but we believe that an investigation ban is not the right way to go and that the investigation protection we have in Norway today is robust enough. The digital world also provides space for new media, new types of voices, a media diversity that we in the Progress Party believe is good. Several of the media that have grown up in recent years are referred to as alternative media, and I record that there are different views about these media acts as well. But as long as the law does not distinguish between different types of editor-driven journalistic media, we believe that neither can the public choose to treat these media differently. That is why we are pleased that we have received support from the government parties for the part of the draft representative, as the representative, Mrs Tage Pettersen, mentioned before me, which they support. It depends on: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the State and public bodies treat editor-driven journalistic media as equal to access to public-interest arenas.’ This proposal is based on the fact that several of these editorials often experience that they may not attend press conferences or in other contexts where the public has an interest in knowing what is being communicated and that they therefore want equal treatment. We in the Progress Party believe that it is not what media associations you are part of, which are supposed to determine how you should be treated by the public, but how the law categorizes the different types of media. We are pleased with this matter. We're glad it's such a big consensus. And then we'll see how fast evolution is going, and if we have to make even more changes in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1945	Three years ago, Stortinget ordered the Media Liability Act that we are adopting today, and the Center Party and I are pleased with the result. Getting a new law on editorial independence and responsibility in editor-driven journalistic media means an absolutely necessary update and compilation of the current specific rules on legal responsibility in the media area – and then in a new technology neutral special law. This last, that it is technology-neutral, is very important and good, as well as the fact that the law is much better suited than the current legislation for our new media everyday life, which has become very online, and which has undergone great technological development and has given new and digital production and dissemination methods as well as new media forms, where both users and actors outside the established media have gained a new position. At a time when the editor-in-chief media, as well as our media diversity, are under pressure, it is important that we do what we can here on the Stortinget to support them in order to ensure freedom of expression, and not least to satisfy the essential point of the Constitution § 100, that ‘the state authorities are required to facilitate an open and informed public conversation.’ I am very pleased with the fact that over the years an active media policy with press support has given us, and I am very proud that Norway is again at the top of the world's best country for press freedom. But these results cannot be easily taken into account. They have to work on all the time in order to be able to stay. Too many local, regional and national media and trades are struggling with the economy as a result of dramatic advertising failures, not least now in these corona times, but also long before that. It's challenging for our media to make a digital transition that gives sustainability. In the last few years, it has also become more difficult for the serious editorial media to maintain the confidence of the population, since the emergence of ‘fake news’ – in all kinds of forms and shapes – confuses and undermines people’s faith. Trust in our serious editor-directed media, with strict media ethics guidelines, is also exposed as a result of the emergence of some – not all, but some – so-called alternative media that actually work actively to undermine the credibility of other media. This is not good because our democracy is totally dependent on our fourth state power having great credibility and trust, like the place where the people, the authorities and we politicians are presented with facts. Then there is no doubt that the media are working strictly in the press, and that the editorial responsibility is strong, that the source protection is good, and that the industry standard for journalistic quality is high. I believe that our new Media Liability Act contributes to this, and that also means the media organisations. But both these, the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV would like the source protection to be further reinforced by an investigation ban. That is not the majority for today. But otherwise, the law cooperation has been good in the committee, and we've gathered around a lot. I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur. The result is not least that the entire Committee has today made proposals for an examination of the scope of the law, that it may also apply to news agencies supplying quality-controlled substances to other media. I cheer for the outcome of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1964	Mangfold is a word commonly spoken from this pulpit in positive order. We cultivate diversity as an enrichment for our society because it gives us impulses and forces us to see ourselves from different perspectives. Often, diversity brings innovation, progress, enrichment. Nevertheless, we need to be careful about without further equalising diversity with quality. There's no place where diversity is greater than in a garbage dump. In the last century, the Norwegian media industry has shown a striking international capacity to keep pace with technological innovation, new recruitment and economic development – read funding models. The industry has managed to involve the public in the green shift of the information society and is, after difficult years, creating a new platform for further growth. It is equally important that the ethics of Norwegian journalists, editors and media houses has evolved in the same qualitative direction. It's been more than 80 years since the first weather-watch poster came into being. During this period, the self-justification system has developed as new economic and technological developments develop. Of course, industry ethics is at the forefront, about the goat that fits the oat sack, but to quote a former secretary-general of the Press Federation: it's a relatively intelligent nest, then. More importantly, the alternative to such a system in a democratic context is extremely poor. An industrial ethic determined and taken care of by the political environment, which most of all needs transparency and critical scrutiny, is a thought that most of us are rather distant. Some of us have experienced outrages, misquotes, unfair treatment, sometimes harassment more than others, but fortunately I have to hear someone here in the house think they are justified, even able, to uphold the ethical standard of the press better than the industry itself, although the temptation to take such action may be great. It's a democratic sign of health. I can't see that so-called alternative media enriches our culture of opinion, on the contrary. They are far from the standard of publication and regularly contribute to undermining the Norwegian presseetic norm. As a rule, with responsibility comes freedom. It is demonstrably not that the opposite – that freedom leads to responsibility – is the case. Set is so far a good example of it. So with freedom of the press, independence and self-justice, responsibility and awareness of quality follow, and that is where we are today. The Media Liability Act may not move large borderstones in the Norwegian media landscape. It also marks the careful adjustment of some cadastral parcels. It consolidates and makes the boundary setting clearer, while opening up further debate on quality, not least by clarifying the requirement for the sector-specific standards of editors.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e1985	I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good and skillful work on the matter. Freedom of the press is under pressure in many parts of the world today. In its 2020 press freedom index, reporters point without limits to five worrying developments that they believe will make the next decade crucial for the future of journalism. They see a geopolitical crisis linked to aggressive authoritarian regimes. They see a technological crisis as a result of digital globalised communications creating chaos in which propaganda, advertising, rumors and journalism are in direct competition with each other. They see a democratic crisis linked to polarisation and oppressive political regimes. They see a crisis of confidence because of suspicion and partly hatred for the media, and they see an economic crisis threatening the basis for the production of quality journalism. In addition, these trends are now reinforced by a global health crisis. In this picture, Norway stands out in many ways as a blessed exception, and in part as a model. For the fourth consecutive year, reporters without borders have named Norway the country with the greatest freedom of the press of all the 180 countries that have been evaluated. I am proud that this year’s explanatory statement points in particular to the appointment of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and the Commission’s intention to promote broad participation in the public change of words, considering, inter alia, measures against: false news and hateful comments and measures for increased journalistic security. Next year I hope we can see Norway in the first place again, for five consecutive years, and then with the Media Liability Act as an important part of the reason. The aim of the bill is precisely to promote and ensure freedom of the press and freedom of expression for the future. Administrations have a constitutional obligation to facilitate freedom of expression in practice. This responsibility lies behind the appointment of the Freedom of Speech Commission and the proposal for a new Media Liability Act. The legislative proposal supports the role of the editor-driven journalistic media as a guarantor of an open and informed public conversation. For example, the law will ensure the independence of the media by cutting off the ability of owners to review editorial decisions. The law also guarantees independence by legislating a discharge for technical staff, which is not then tempted to intervene in order to avoid liability itself. The law also contributes to serious and credible journalism by giving editors greater legal responsibility for published content. Good and up-to-date legal frameworks for publishing journalism are an important prerequisite for good working conditions for the media, but it is also important for the public and for the confidence of the public space and the democratic conversation in general. It is the serious journalism of different areas of society that gives us the basis for an open and enlightened debate on political and other issues, and that enables us to participate in democracy as powerful citizens of society. I believe that the law is a contribution to this and am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee supports the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2000	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2006	In this room, on several occasions, the Committee has discussed in recent years the challenges of the editor-driven, serious media being under pressure from fake news and some alternative media working actively to undermine their credibility. The Minister’s predecessor’s answer was, among other things, the law we adopt today. It will help, I think. But I also believe that as politicians, we need to make even better arrangements so that serious journalism can get better conditions to dig more and make better things, so that the audience sees that it's the one they should follow and listen to – that it's the medicine. Then we simply have to spend more money and support under the editorial media for a period – not just now in the coronary crisis, but also in the future – as they need more money than the minister gave yesterday. What does the Minister think about it as a medicine to help make even better journalism?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2015	Initially, I agree with the concerns of the questioner. At the same time, it is important to say that it is not the responsibility of politicians to make journalism; it is the responsibility of journalists and editor-directed media to do so. We should be very happy that we have a free press in Norway. The free press is the world's best, and that's good. At the same time, we are well aware that we have a problem with – the keyword was mentioned – both ‘fake news’ and other things. That is why it is even more important that we make this law, which helps to strengthen the position of the editor-directed media, and not least that we look at the editors being given both a special independence and an extended legal responsibility. We have set down a freedom of expression Commission, which is to take a broad look at the framework for freedom of expression in Norway. There we will discuss a number of the questions raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2024	Thanks for the answer, then I look forward to that work. Can the Minister already state that the economy and support will be part of that work — at least over a period of time, until the editorial media have overcome their knees, which have been reinforced in the coronary crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2029	Of course, the government is contributing to media support, and we are also working on proposals to see how we can ensure a long-term framework for this. Yesterday I presented a media package from the government. It will come to the Grand Duchy in the context of the revised budget. There we will also address the challenges of the media in the case of the coronary crisis. It's a framework-driven scheme limited to 300 million. kr. It is assumed to be notified in ESA, approved and reviewed in Stortinget, and we will also present it for consultation, receive the hearings and see if we can adjust it. But it will then cover 60 pst. of the loss of advertising revenue if you can prove that you have 15 pst. ad cases in the local and regional media market. For the central media, it's going to be 20 pst. to get under this. Together with the long frameworks we have, along with this package and through the media support we generally provide, I believe that the government is providing Norwegian local and central media in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2038	The Council of State spoke warmly about the Norwegian freedom of the press. Norway is regularly awarded the world’s best country in that area. In the law, we have measures to facilitate this, including: with good source protection and with a good framework for media work. But I also believe that one of the reasons we're cutting so high is the Norwegian Public Relations Act, which makes political decisions and analyses available to the press and can be examined, debated and used by the press in their critical work. The government has now received criticism from both the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party and from several teams – including from the Children's Ombudsman – to keep secret reports on important societal issues, which should be available. Does Abid Raja think that this secret is in line with the public policy that he, as a left-wing politician, has previously stood for?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2043	I see that there is a polemics in the public vocabulary between the representative Giske and several of the government parties, and of course it must continue, because it is very good that we have freedom of expression in Norway, that we can have a public and informed debate. Then I will reassure the representative that the Left is a champion of freedom of expression. It's also the government. The left is also a champion of merpublicism. It's also the government. I am pleased that the majority of the committee has just said that all editor-driven journalistic media should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. Of course, the government on its side will facilitate that. Then we have daily press conferences, where we share information about what is happening during the Korona crisis – I want to say that it is an example to follow for many other countries – where everything from Prime Minister to Minister of Health, the entire breadth of government, has been available to the press for many different questions, to say all the days. I believe that this shows that we have a good democracy in Norway, that it works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2052	Over the past few years, several media, often called alternative media, have developed, read by hundreds of thousands of Norwegians daily, who are also editor-driven journalistic media. We also see that several of these media are often discussed by others, both media and politicians. My question to the Council of State is: What does he think about the many alternative media that have grown up in Norway in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2057	I'm glad we have media freedom in Norway. I am pleased that a law is now being passed that brings together the different specific rules and clarifies the different provisions. It's a platform neutral law. There's a broad consensus in the industry about this, it's a detailed law, and I'm glad you can do that. Then, as Minister of the Media, I will not roll dice over single media, but I believe that the representative Grimstad of the Left was quite clear in his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2062	It is somewhat surprising to listen to the various parts of the contributions of the civil majority when it comes to precisely this equality with other media. We first heard the post from the representative Gulati, who was quite clear about who this is going to apply, and then we heard the post from the representative Pettersen, who, on the contrary, concluded that there is only an editorial media that is included in the press's self-judgment system, which follows both the Editor's poster and the Varsom poster. If that's true, I have to ask the Council of State question: with the request decision that also the Left Party is behind in this setting, who is it that is really to be equated, which is not going to be today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2067	I'm not sure if I understood the question quite correctly, but I'm glad we promoted this proposition. It was an initiative that different parties were behind, and it's taken some time. That's what we've been working on. I am pleased that the law is now being passed, and of course both I and the government must follow up all the majority comments and all the decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2072	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2078	The purpose of the law is to facilitate an open and informed public conversation by ensuring editorial independence and establishing clear responsibilities for content published in editor-directed journalistic media. The reason for this is that the media themselves can access different information, including from public agencies, about what is actually happening. What made me draw again was something the Council of State said in its reply to me that was quite incredible. He said it was an example to follow up for other countries that information is given at press conferences where state councils can tell about what is happening. This happens all the time. It happens in Hungary, it happens in Turkey, it happens in China, it happens in North Korea – it happens everywhere that government councils systematically present public information. There is nothing unique for democracies. It happens in the United States, and it happens in the United Kingdom. What is unique to open democratic societies is that the press itself can go after this information, regardless of a presentation by a government council at a press conference. That is what we call for documents of general interest – interest for the Children’s Ombudsman, for municipalities, for the Stortinget, for parties, for organisations, for health institutions, for people working in different sectors – to be made available, as required by the Public Health Act. And so this corresponds to the Council of State showing that yes, but it's great that you have press conferences every afternoon. 16th@item: inlistbox That's great, that's great. And eventually there may be an opportunity for more journalists to also be present and ask even more questions. But that doesn't relieve the Council of State of responsibility for transparency, the ability to examine, dig, use sources. This must be answered by the Council of States with more than one sentence stating that the Left is too public. The Council of State has constitutional responsibility for the sector. He does not answer the question from SV, which is quite timely. If it is necessary for the Left to include in a note that different editor-driven media must be treated in a non-discriminatory manner, this must be a clear question: Who is not treated in a non-discriminatory way today? How has the Council of State intended to follow up on this if he does not know the answer to that question? I have learned that the Council of State is not so happy to debate, but here in the Chamber he must actually answer, for it is this hall, this forum, this house which is the top body of the Norwegian democratic system. So it's not like the Prime Minister said here, that the Storting has a control function that could get hurt if we get the information a little too early or interfere in government decisions. The premise for the decisions is put here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2089	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2106	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2115	The previous case was – I would say – a good case for the Workers' Party. We dealt with this in a document eight proposals several years ago. This case is even bigger and even more important to us. I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. This has not been a difficult matter to get into port, but I want to be honest and say that this has not always been so easy. We have been consistently and for a long time defenders of the gambling monopoly, of the monopoly model, which is designed to ensure that a sector that can potentially have quite significant harmful effects on individuals, on families and on society is under good control. As Minister of Culture, I won, among other things: a case before the EFTA Court. We've fought for the model, and we've also won internationally. So there has not always been such a broad consensus on this, and in particular the party of the Minister of Culture has had a different view. In fact, the programme was aimed at non-discrimination between foreign and Norwegian games. Now, fortunately, the sound is a completely different one. I want to commend Trine Skei Grande in particular, who presented this case, and who – I believe with the good help of State Secretary Atle Hamar’s experience from the Lottery Authority – has followed up this with a proposal that has gone quite unchanged through Stortinget. It is important that there is broad consensus, for this will be challenged by strong economic interests. But after a broad majority of the Stortinget, advertising rules are firmly anchored as a logical consequence of the exclusive right model. One comes from the other. This is the same thing. We fully support the arguments put forward by the Ministry in its legislative proposal. We do not see the legal challenges that others, strong economic interests, are trying to see in this law. And so there's only one party that disagrees with this broad decision. There must be the decision of the Storting on the exclusive right model and this more solar decision now on measures that I believe are as small as possible in a regulatory framework that should actually be practised and followed up. A much more comprehensive regulatory framework could be envisaged. I think the department and the then state council have done a very good job of finding a methodology here that shows that in fact you are seriously trying to do this in the least interventional way possible. That is why I am pleased that we have reached such a broad consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2130	Norway is a country that takes gambling seriously. The government will ensure that social policy remains the main focus of our game policy. At the same time, we must emphasise the need for technological development. Technological development not only brings new opportunities for game providers, it also offers great opportunities for the auxiliaries, researchers, the gambling environment, treatment providers and others working with gambling problems. Gambling is an industry that's always moving. Responsibilities in facilitating gambling within a responsible framework are a common task. It is important to work to ensure that there are fewer problems with games. We constantly need new knowledge about games and game problems. For the Right, we went to the elections in 2017 to keep the exclusive model of gambling. In the Granavolden Declaration, the government says that they should continue the exclusive right model and present an action plan against gambling addiction. The action plan was submitted in December 2018. The new action plan is the fifth in the series and ensures that long-term, systematic and targeted work is done to prevent gambling problems in the Norwegian population. The bill we are discussing today contains proposals to prevent or impede access to the marketing of gambling by players outside the exclusive right model. The proposition is a follow-up to decisions at Innst. 242 S for 2017-2018. On behalf of the Ministry of Culture, Oslo Economics has prepared the report ‘Consequences of the ban on the circulation of foreign gambling advertising’. The report points out that the amendment will have a direct economic impact on television channels that today send out advertising for foreign gambling. Oslo Economics estimates an income loss of between 250 and 500 million. kr. Actors themselves believe that this will result in strong restrictions on the life base of commercial TV channels and their ability to invest in Norwegian productions. These are consequences we must be aware of. I am proud that the Norwegian gambling policy has one main focus, namely to prevent the social adverse effects of gambling. Regardless of the model that will form the basis for our game policy in the future, the main focus should always be the same. In that context, it is worth noting that in April, the national meeting of gambling addiction Norway unanimously decided to set up a group to look at different game models. The stakeholder organisation of the game addicts will assess whether there are others, and better, solutions than the current exclusive model in order to maintain just those who depend on the game. But our job as authorities today is to manage the exclusive right model, and in that context, the amendment we are adopting today has a clear objective: to put in place effective enforcement of the marketing ban on foreign operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2149	This issue is about a proposal to intervene in what other countries have to do with regulation in a field where there are many variations in how the different countries have chosen to organise themselves. It's done to tighten the grip on a game monopoly that, in our opinion, doesn't work. The gambling monopoly currently contributes to less money for good than the option of a licence model, according to several reports. It also does not prevent marketing, but transfers the marketing of games to a monopolist who is engaged in some ongoing marketing campaigns, which may be negative for those who are struggling with gambling problems. Those who are now fighting to preserve this monopoly are fighting for a monopoly for the sake of the monopoly. Today's exclusive model has proved to be ineffective. Today's challenge of gambling addiction has grown with the exclusive right model, while we now know that significant amounts played by the Nordics do not benefit societal purposes, precisely because you choose to pretend that the gambling companies play hundreds of thousands of Norwegians don't exist. A licence model would also provide better opportunities to combat gambling dependence than the current exclusive model. In 2017, the NRK reported that Norway, among others, has twice as many gambling addicts as Denmark, despite the fact that Denmark has many private gaming companies. Denmark and other countries where waste companies have been chosen to enter the heat also have opportunities to shut themselves out of such games through one common portal, while Norway is currently choosing to shut out many of the gambling companies where a large proportion of Norwegians choose to play. It is a paradox that the other parties are willing to allow large amounts of money that could be used for social purposes and that could be part of the fight against gambling addiction to disappear from the country instead of allowing several Nordics' most used gambling companies to be included in a Norwegian model through a licensing system. An argument that is often used is that you don't want to advertise games. But we have a lot of game advertising in Norway today, and for most people it's probably good to see this kind of advertising. If one is to reduce the scope of advertising alone, it must also be made clear that there are quite a lot of gambling advertising in Norway today from Norsk Typing, sometimes also quite ongoing and extensive advertising. It might not have been a worse timing to adopt such a law than at a time when we know that most media, both television channels and others, are struggling with their advertising revenue. We in the Progress Party are opposed to this proposal. We believe that the proposal is about maintaining a monopoly of games that does not function properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2164	Today, we are dealing with an important change in the broadcasting law, based on a proposal from us in the opposition in its time, and with this clearly highlight that we, the Stortinget, want further regulation of gambling advertising, especially from foreign actors. Gambling is for many a pleasant experience, but for others it unfortunately evolves into something far more serious. Gambling addiction has major negative consequences for individuals, but also for relatives — it can destroy lives. We politicians therefore have an obligation to limit and counteract gambling addiction. In this context, the operations of foreign gambling companies in the Norwegian market are a problem, as there are increasing numbers of venues for the development of gambling addiction. Moreover, their marketing is so massive that I feel a great pressure on us elected people to do something about it in the fight against gambling addiction. Now it is understandable that part of the commercial television channels – not TV 2, but part of the others – accept the advertising revenue that the foreign gaming companies give them. But the fact that the gaming companies spend as much money as they do on TV advertising means that they know that it works very well to attract new and old customers – they get them into their platforms, and there are several of them into gambling addiction. Fortunately, I feel that there are a lot of healthy attitudes in the population regarding advertising and gambling. Studies show that the population as a whole has negative attitudes here, and research has also shown that the population has restrictive attitudes to the marketing of gambling and wants stricter regulation, including in the field of drugs. in Rambøll’s 2018 study ‘Marketing impact on gambling and gambling problems’. The findings of the study, which was carried out as part of the government’s action plan against gambling problems, also show that players at moderate risk of problem gambling are the most affected by the marketing of gambling. This is a group that plays to a large extent with non-regulated foreign actors. Then there is a need to get hold of the game advertising, which affects these most vulnerable. It is not surprising that those who have been negative to the bill are foreign gambling companies and the broadcasters who send their advertising. They point out that we need a licence model, and Sweden, which has recently introduced it. But it hasn't been squeaky, and it'll probably take a while before it gets up to date to at least the Center Party to take a closer look at it. But those who support the proposal are humanitarian organisations, the gambling environments and our regulated Norwegian actors. They listen carefully to the Center Party in this matter, and for us, this matter is also about supporting the exclusive model, which is very important to our party. We believe it is the safest framework for a responsible gambling policy, and we want to maintain it – not least because it also ensures that the profits of gambling are not taken into account, but rather channelled for the benefit of all the voluntary organisations and purposes that every year, every week, every day, make an invaluable effort around our local communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2181	SV is very pleased that the government is following up some of the opposition's 2018 impact on a more responsible game policy. It is despite the fact that the Left, who runs the department, has been out with a primary point of view several times about dropping out for foreign gambling in Norway. But, fortunately, that is not the majority in this Chamber. On the contrary, the majority in this Chamber see that the aggressive and illegal advertising that individual channels broadcast on Norwegian television from abroad threatens the Norwegian model of exclusive rights, which is based on responsible games where all profit goes for good. It is also very important to say that the exclusive rights model and Norwegian Typing are not perfect either. No, there are some balances between being a responsible actor and being a relevant actor, which has sometimes proved difficult for those who manage the Norwegian model. But there is no doubt that the foreign gambling companies operate according to completely different considerations, a completely different model, where the consideration of profit for the owners is exclusive, and then it is no wonder that the practices of these companies can also lead to more gambling dependence. It makes a real impression to meet and hear the stories of those who are or have been victims of that addiction – people who lose everything they own, not only the house, but also the family, because they are trapped in gambling addiction. That's why it's time for the Storting to make a decision to intensify the responses to illegal gambling, and so it's a pleasure that the government is now making this proposition, which is being adopted by a broad majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2190	The President would remind the representative that ‘I’m not a parliamentary expression enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2195	Many Norwegians play gambling, and fortunately most of them have an unproblematic relationship with it. The challenge is when games create addiction and become a problem for individuals and their relatives. For the Christian People's Party, precisely these human aspects of game policy are the most important. We believe that the authorities have a responsibility to fight gambling addiction and social challenges resulting from gambling and gambling. We believe that political regulation is necessary to prevent high costs for individuals. That's why the Christian People's Party, together with the Workers' Party, for some time ago promoted this bill we're now about to adopt. Around 122,000 Nordics are dependent on gambling or in the risk zone of gambling addiction. If you calculate with your relatives, you can assume that approx. Half a million people in this country are affected by the negative side of gambling, and developments are frightening. The number of people in need of help is increasing every year that goes. Blue Cross Polyclinic in Oslo can tell that in 2018 there were more patients referred to for gambling problems than for drug problems. Yes, they can tell that the proportion of those with gambling addiction who contact them has increased from 30 pst. to 50 pst. during the last years. Most problems are around online poker and casinos at the foreign gaming companies. So it's the games with high risk gaming companies market the most. We know from research that game advertising affects particularly vulnerable players, and many of the Blue Cross patients tell about just how game advertising triggers their gambling. For many of those who seek help, it's not uncommon that hundreds of thousands of dollars, sometimes millions, are wasted. Then the gaming problems have often been discovered by the family, and the job may be in danger. Many people have a debt that is completely impossible to pay off, and it's a huge burden that it's hard to imagine. It's about family relationships that get broken, fathers that play away the confirmation money for the kids, and people who resort to desperate acts. Unfortunately, we know too well the connection between gambling addiction and suicide issues. It is currently illegal under Norwegian law to market gambling that is not authorised by Norwegian law, and finally we will have the opportunity to enforce the ban also against gambling companies, television channels and power services that are operating outside Norway. We must stop these cynical foreign gambling companies that are engaged in illegal marketing and profit from the tragic fate of people. The Christian People's Party wants accountability in game policy and that the consideration of the vulnerable is always put first. To those acquaintances who profit heavily from using their status as advertisers of online casinos: we really expect more of Norwegian role models.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2214	I am very pleased that this was done so quickly, and I would like to thank both the case rapporteur and the committee for a good and fast work on this. The law prohibits the placing on the market of gambling which is not authorised in Norway, but the provisions of the law cannot be used to enforce the prohibition against operators established abroad. That is why gambling advertising on Norwegian TV screens thrives every day. The advertising by foreign gambling companies is primarily concerned with games with a high risk of gambling addiction, such as: casino and poker games. Research shows that such advertising can help to exacerbate gambling problems and trigger relapses for gambling addicts. To date, we have not had the necessary tools to enforce the ban on advertising to foreign players, but the recently revised AMT Directive makes it clear that Norway has a room for action to take action against foreign gambling advertising. It is this space of action that the government has proposed to exploit. It is therefore proposed to legislate a separate provision allowing the Media Authority to impose an obligation on network owners and network distributors to prevent access to the market for illicit gambling. The imposition shall be based on an assessment by the Lottery Authority of whether the marketing that is disseminated is contrary to the law on gambling. The starting point is that in cases where there is no doubt that gambling which is not authorised in Norway and which is directed at Norwegian viewers, it should be imposed. This is the general rule, but a specific assessment must be made, and special circumstances in the individual case may lead to no such imposition. This will be considered as a safety valve against unreasonable results. The aim of the legislative proposal is to limit the marketing of illicit gambling in the interests of vulnerable players and to strengthen the model of exclusive rights such as the State’s social and criminal policy instruments in the field of gambling. The proposal has had many positive reactions. Several have pointed out that the changes will have a major impact on people who have a problematic relationship with gambling. For organisations working against gambling addiction, this proposal has therefore been particularly long-term. They see how this type of marketing can have serious adverse effects on people with gambling problems. This proposal is therefore about listening to those who have a problematic relationship with gambling and with their relatives. In addition to contributing to a more responsible gambling policy, the proposal will also contribute to equality of law and equal conditions for Norwegian and international media actors. The proposal will result in foreign media targeting a Norwegian audience no longer having the competitive advantage of sending out advertising of gambling banned in Norway. This will make Norwegian media more competitive. The proposal is therefore not only good gambling policy but also good media policy. Furthermore, I believe that the proposal is also good consumer policy. Because studies show that a whole of 87 pst. by us there is too much gambling advertising in Norway. That is why it is not just those who have a problematic relationship with gambling who wish to welcome this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2233	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2239	I would like to read the following from the Left's own program, where they write that the problem with today's game policy is that it does not work, and that the Left will therefore ‘evaluate the game policy and establish a pilot project with a licence scheme for foreign online games’. My question to the Council of State is whether he will remain open to a licensing model where private gambling companies can be part of the Norwegian model?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2244	In December 2016, in the game announcement, the government announced to the Stortinget that we will investigate the scope of action provided by EEA law to introduce such a ban, and what scope we have for action. Then, in fact, the Progress Party was in government. It took some time, and we have been waiting for the revised AMT Directive. That is why we have now promoted this. Nor is it true that a licence model would provide a better opportunity to combat gambling addiction. Rambøll concluded in a 2015 report that it would not be possible to maintain an equivalent liability regime within a licence model because potential licensees would not find this market interesting. Then there are divided opinions in all parties about different things, but this is the government's view, and this is also the Council of State's view.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2253	Several of Norway’s biggest stars in various sports and sports, whether football, ski sports or chess, have opted for cooperation agreements and sponsorship agreements with foreign gaming companies. These are respected sports stars that people listen to. I want to ask the Council of State what he thinks about Norwegian stars cooperating with such companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2258	The Council of State and the Government are concerned with the universality and maintaining a good dialogue with the sport movement. Not least, the Council of State and the government are also very concerned with the gambling addicts, that we are able to channel the gambling that is in the population into a responsible framework. I have had a good and thorough dialogue with the sports movement about this, with the president there, and they are very pleased that the government has taken this initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2263	My last question is whether the Council of State sees any problems in not including gambling companies that hundreds of thousands of Norwegians use, in combating gambling addiction and in getting more money for good, social purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2268	It is important to stress: today, therefore, it is contrary to the marketing ban in the Money Gambling Act, the Lottery Act and the Totalizer Game Regulation to send illegal gambling advertising in Norway. It is prohibited under Norwegian law. And I am glad that we will now adopt a enforcement mechanism and that we can stop this. This will be able to channel the gambling that is in the population into a responsible framework, and not least we will be able to deal with the gambling advertising that is illegal under Norwegian law, and that is a matter of great satisfaction to the council and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2273	On the left's website we could find the following quote: ‘Left will establish a pilot project with a licence scheme for foreign online games design the rules on gambling advertising and gambling so that Norwegian and foreign players have equal conditions of competition and stop Norwegian Typing free advertising at NRK’» Now, Minister of Culture Raja argues as a good social democrat about this, and every word he says both in the proposition that has been promoted, and from the pulpit here, is completely in line with what we mean. My question is therefore: Does the Left-Man Abid Q mean Raja the Culture Minister Abid Q. Raja has now said from the Spokesman's Chair, or is it such that the day he leaves, he still means what is on the Left's website? Is this what he stands for as a politician, or is this what he said about the media package, government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2289	It is the Council of the Left, the Minister for Culture – me, that is – who has promoted this proposal, and the representative of the Left should take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2294	I understand that. It just seems like the council has a little bit of different hats at different times. When it came to the disclosure law, the Left was very concerned that it should be followed and very concerned with more publicity, but as the constitutionally responsible state council, it seems that he might have a little lack of action. Yesterday, when the Council of State was asked if he was proud of the media support package, he concluded that it was not the Minister of Culture who had made that media package, it was the government who had made that media package. My question now is: Does Abid Q believe that what Stortinget now adopts about advertising and game policy, and which also builds up under the exclusive right model, is a good policy, and that the proposals that the Left has on its website are a little less good policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2301	In this room, all state councils have only one hat. It's the constitutionally responsible hat, and that's what we're operating under. In terms of packages we make, I think the representative Geske may have forgotten what it's like to be in government. It is then that the government prepares packages together, and one discusses this collectively as a government. It goes through a system, it is quality assured by the Ministry of Finance, and through a collegial body, as the government is, it promotes its common policy. It cannot be so long since the representative Giske has been in government that he has forgotten this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2308	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2328	The Presidency shall promote proposals for legislative amendments to the National Audit Act and the EOS Control Act in the nomination. The amendments concern the adaptations to the new Safety Act. The Safety Act applies to the Stortinget and bodies to the extent that the Storing itself determines it. In June last year, the Stortinge adopted amendments to the Stortinge Rules of Procedure on the processing of classified information. The size has also adopted its own provisions on the application of the new Security Act to the Administration of Storting. Both the National Audit Office and the EOS Committee are currently subject to some elements of the Safety Act. In particular, provisions concerning the safety of personnel and the processing of classified information apply. However, the activities have in practice also complied with other provisions of the law, including provisions on physical security and security in acquisitions. Through its investigations and controls, the National Audit Office and the EOS Committee have access to classified information in the administration. The starting point of the Presidency is that the Riksrevision and the EOS Committee should then follow the same formal framework as the administration in its preventive safety work. It is therefore proposed that the Security Act be fully applicable to the National Audit Office and the EOS Committee, unless exceptions or adaptations are necessary for constitutional or other specific reasons. This is in line with the wishes of the National Audit Office and the EOS Committee itself. It is, in particular, with regard to provisions granting the government or the national safety authority supervisory or regulatory competence that a derogation has been proposed. Some provisions of the Security Act also do not apply to the activities of the National Audit Office and the EOS Committee as appropriate. Otherwise, it is proposed that the Administration of the Storting should be the clearing authority of the EOS Committee and the secretariat of the selection, with the Presidency as the Board of Appeal. This replaces today's regime, where the presidency clears the EOS Committee, while the National Security Authority clears the secretariat of the sample. When a new college for the National Audit Office is appointed, it is proposed that members of the college be also subject to security clearance and authorisation requirements. Until further notice, the National Audit Office is maintained as its own clearing authority for its personnel and personnel employed by suppliers. Since it is an objective to reduce the number of clearing authorities, this issue will be re-evaluated when the setting from the sample to investigate the control function of the Stortinge is available. I therefore recommend the vote, with the proposals that have been put forward there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2343	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2356	Councillor Abid Q. Raja will transfer 6 kgl. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2367	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map. The President shall first give the floor to the representative Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2374	I have asked for the floor for an explanation of vote. This morning, at the beginning of the quota notification process, there was a very surprising proposal on the table from the government parties, where the Stortinget asked the government to come forward with the proposals we have discussed today, after we have finished dealing with this matter. It is very surprising, very special, and that should of course result in that we had unanimously sent the matter back to the government for a new treatment. It's not going to be a majority for that. That is why I also ask the representatives of the Workers' Party to support the proposal to make the proposals more coherent. Of course, we cannot feel that when we adopt it in the Grand Duchy, the policy must be overly rigorous.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2383	The representative of Mr Pollestad has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2388	Although this is a very special proposal, I would also recommend the Center Party's group to support this. One of the expectations of the Central Party is that the government will come back to Stortinget when matters are settled. Then one would advise the government and the government party that a policy should be settled before a proposal is made and that policy should be dealt with on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2393	Then it is the representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2398	I'll stick to it, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2403	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2409	I would also recommend that the SV's group support that proposal there, for some of the same reasons that have been presented here. We look forward to these follow-up statements running or gathering to the Storting before the message and its contents are implemented in any way, and take it as a matter of course, unless someone else asks for the word otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2416	It does not appear that there are others who are asking for the floor for explanations of vote, and that means that we start voting on case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2428	A total of 32 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-13, from Cecilie Myrseth on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 14-17, from Cecilie Myrseth on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 18 and 19, from Cecilie Myrseth on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 20, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 21-26, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 27, from the Bears of the Moxnes on behalf of the Red proposal No 28, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 29, from Tom-Christen Nilsen on behalf of Right, Party of Advancement, Left and Christian People's Party the proposals No 30-32, from Cecilie Myrseth on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party In the course of the debate, proposal No. 26 drawn. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Report. St. 32 is returned to the government.» [[2018–2019]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2477	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Report. St. 32 An allowance system for increased value creation shall be returned to the Business Committee, which shall submit a new recommendation after examination of the Riksrevisions Report Document 3:6 in the Stortinget.’;» [[2018–2019]] [[2019-2020]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2494	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the impact of Norwegian fisheries policy on the basis of the Riksrevision’s criticism, and to return to Stortinget with a new big business message that takes this into account.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2511	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to reduce the VAT on locally processed seafood in order to ensure more sustainable use of resources and increase employment and value added in districts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2527	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21–25, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to provide a curtailment by structuring 50 pst. and return to the Stortinget with proposals for arrangements where coastal group shortenings to non-negotiable recruitment quotas, while in other groups it returns to the group.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose a gradual winding-up of the obligation regime for cod trawls, with the exception of the obligation to operate. The winding-up shall be gradual in line with legal considerations expressed by the Obligation Commission or more rapidly. Winding-up shall result in a transfer of quantity to that part of the coastal fleet supplying raw material to industry, where seasonally identical catch pattern requirements with today’s cod trawl fleet shall be assessed by allocation.’;» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government requests the reintroduction of the 28-meter limit into the coastal fishing fleet.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals for the levy on frozen fish exported by Norway for further processing in other countries. The revenue generated by the scheme should be used for quality promotion measures, for example in the fish sales laws.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of a structural halt until new legislation is in place in areas identified by the National Audit Office.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2567	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to implement a system whereby the current system of buying and selling vessels with allowances is replaced by a system of concessions whereby the proximity of resources and competences determine access to rights. The investigation shall also include a transitional solution so that those who have invested within the current system do not suffer unacceptable losses.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2584	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 19, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose measures to reduce the use of plastics and measures replacing plastic in fishing gear.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and propose incentives in the fisheries in order to put into service fishing gear which does not contribute to marine pollution.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2608	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 17, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to file a case on measures to prevent plastics from entering the sea in the exercise of fishing and other maritime activities.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government requests an evaluation of how the changes to the obligation system have affected the scheme in 2022 and to promote the cause of the Storing in an appropriate manner.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2632	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to continue the co-fishing system but to require local delivery.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess whether, under the co-fishing system, fish for species other than cod may be required.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2654	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, 8–13 and 30–32, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for various economic instruments that will help to increase the landing and processing of fishing resources in Norway.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a new grouping based on the actual length from the date of the intersection and to return to the Stortinget with more detailed provisions where the maximum volume per fleet group is also included.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the system of decommissioning the coastal fishing quota separately according to current practice, so that it is not part of an open group.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for restrictions of ownership in the coastal fishing fleet.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case to the Stortinget with measures to limit the discharge of fish from the country for processing, for example in the form of quota trajectories.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a paper on the quota policy taking into account the Riksrevision report and its treatment by the Stortinge.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government does not request to base a new default notification on the quota policy on State quota bank.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to base a new default notification on the quota policy on the initial duration of structural quota schemes.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals to ensure that the ownership of quota vessels is spread on several hands.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals to ensure that vessels with quotas are substantially more owned by registered fishermen.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to return to Stortinget with proposals to strengthen the ship-to-quota link.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an investigation into how structural quotas can be restored after the expiry of the time limit in line with agreements concluded, without substantially changing the allocation between fleet groups.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The size of the fleet requires the Government to reintroduce the 28-meter limit to the coastal fishing fleet.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for action to be taken to avoid land conflicts in coastal fishing areas between large fishing vessels with a significant action radius and the traditional and more vulnerable coastal fishing fleet, taking into account the capacity and assumptions of the respective fleet groups.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2791	It shall be counted first on I, III, VI and VII. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2805	It's over V. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2819	That's right over VIII. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2833	It shall be counted against II, IV and IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2843	There is a vote on proposal No. 29 from the right, the party of progress, the left, and the Christian party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked – before implementation – to carry out an impact assessment of any elements of the decisions when examining the Innst. 243 S which has not been completed by the notification.’» [[2019-2020]] The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2859	The President will further propose that Report. St. 32 for 2018-2019 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2876	During the debate Cecilie Myrseth has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a concrete package of measures to ensure more seriousity in the fishing industry. Important measures that must be included to ensure competence, seriousness and decent pay and working conditions are: Good training schemes to ensure access to professional competence for the industry. The continuation of specific regimes for permitting in the fishing industry. Identification of the use of rentals and temporary employment agencies in the industry. Measures to stimulate full-time job vacancies and to limit renting. More active use of the Labour Inspectorate and the a-krim centres towards the fishing industry. Stricter penalties for breach of the Working Environment Act.’ Alternatively, the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party shall be put to the vote and the Committee shall be put to the vote. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e2900	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3120	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3131	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. I The majority asks the government to investigate whether the scope of the Media Liability Act can be extended to news agencies providing quality-controlled content, and how this can be done without countering the objective of ensuring a clear point of responsibility in the media, and to return to the Storting case in an appropriate manner by spring 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3156	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3204	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3216	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3230	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3323	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3333	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3353	Further references were made: 2nd@item: inlistbox Representatives of the Landfill Representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Sigbjørn Gülsvik and Geir Pollestad to remove the excess cash support for businesses (Document 8:96 S [[305]] [[2019-2020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3360	The President proposes that point 305 of the Minutes be dealt with in accordance with point (e) of the second paragraph of Paragraph 39 of the Rules of Procedure, that it be rejected. The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3367	That proposal concerns the proportion of enterprises in the compensation scheme. When there was a debate about it in the Stortinge in Easter, there was only one party – in addition to the Center Party – that was to remove the whole part. Afterwards, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party have also signaled the same thing, together with SV, Red and Center Party. That's why there's now a majority to remove the whole proportion. The size is free to deal with the things you want, and I would ask the majority of people to vote in line with what they have expressed in the media, that you want to remove the whole proportion of small businesses, because it is very unfair, and that we take that matter into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3374	The Stortinget will then discuss the procedure for document 8:96 S for 2019-2020. The President has proposed that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with point (e) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure, that it be rejected. The representative Vedum then proposed that Document 8:96 S for 2019-2020 be sent to the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3388	Further references were made: 3rd@item: inlistbox Representative proposal by Solfrid Lerbreck, Audun Lysbakken, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Petter Eide and Nicholas Wilkinson on the punishment for social security abuse (Document 8:99 S [[306]] [[2019-2020]] 4th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the depositors Solfrid Lerbreck, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Mona Fagerås, Nicholas Wilkinson, Karin Andersen and Freddy André Supreme Court to ensure care allowance for parents who have to work less because of reduced opening hours in kindergartens and SFO (Document 8:100 S) [[307]] [[2019-2020]] 5th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the depositors Arild Grande, Rigmor Aasrud, Lise Christoffersen and Elise Björnebeck-Waagen on measures to strengthen the serious actors in the labour market and to increase recruitment to the craft professions (Document 8:102 S [[308]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : No. 3–5 are sent to the Labour and Social Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3403	Further references were made: 6th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Audun Lysbakken, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Arne Nävra, Karin Andersen and Lars Haltbrecken on the extension of the business compensation scheme (Document 8:95 S [[309]] [[2019-2020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3410	The President proposes that reference point 309 be sent to the Financial Committee, with the exception of point 1, which is proposed to be dealt with under point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure, to be rejected. The representative, Mr Kaski, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3417	We'll ask for another vote. This is precisely about the proportion of the compensation scheme. The representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, presented this in the previous record. I would like to add that the Storting here has had as a prerequisite in the treatment of the scheme that the Storting should be able to make changes to it in front of the next payments to be made, and I think it is imperative that we deal with it now. If it's going to be revised, it'll be too late for the country's businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3423	The size is then passed on to voting on the procedure for Document 8:95 S for 2019-2020. The President has proposed that the Financial Committee be rejected, except for paragraph 1, which is proposed to be dealt with under point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure. The representative of Kaski has proposed that the financial committee be sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3437	Further references were made: 7th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by Nicholas Wilkinson, Audun Lysbakken, Karin Andersen, Torgair Knag Fylkesnes and Solfrid Lerbrückk on national production of medicinal products and medical devices [[310]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : To be sent to the Health and Care Committee. Eight. Temporary law on adaptations to the Introduction Act to remedy the consequences of covid-19 outbreaks (Prop. [[311]] 103 L [[2019-2020]] Onest. : To be sent to the Municipal and Management Committee. 9th@item: inlistbox Temporary law on adaptations in kindergarten law, training law and the law on free schooling to remedy the consequences of outbreaks of covid-19 (Prop. [[312]] 102 L [[2019-2020]] Onest. : Sent to the Education and Research Committee. 10th@item: inlistbox Representative of Björn Moxnes, on his proposal to provide legal compensation for Norwegian veterans with psychological damage (Document 8:101 S [[313]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : To be sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-07.ana.ud20e3461	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
