ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e147	Even today, the President will recall the importance of good hand and cough hygiene and also reminds us that each representative himself has a responsibility to maintain the protection of infectious diseases both inside and outside the landfill. Furthermore, the President will also invite those representatives who do not participate in the debate to follow matters from his own office, so that we do not sit together here for too long. The representative, Kari Henriksen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Four permit applications are available: from the Christian People's Party on sick leave for the representative of the Torhild Bransdal from 26 May until further notice from the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen on parental leave from 26 May to 20 June from the Central Party Group on Welfare Permit of the Representative Willfred Nordlund from 26 to 28 May from the Socialist Left Group on sick leave for the representative of Mr Knag Fylkesnes from 26 May to 19 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For West Agder: Per Sverre Kvinlaug 26 May and until further notice For Hedmark: Tone Merete Sønsterud 26 May to 19 June For Northern Ireland: Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen 26-28. May For Troms: Katrine Boel Gregussen 26 May to 19 June
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e220	Per Sverre Kvinlaug, Tone Merete Sønsterud, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen and Katrine Boel Gregussen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e231	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e236	On behalf of Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for action against juvenile and gang crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e241	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e246	On behalf of the representatives of Kjersti Toppe, Liv Signe Navarsete, Heidi Greni, Per Olaf Lundtägen, Sigbjørn Gülsvik and myself, I would rather seriously suggest that an independent screening committee be set up for an overall review of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e251	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e257	I have the pleasure of promoting a proposal from Karin Andersen, Solfrid Lerbreck, Camilla Sørensen Eidsvold, Arne Nävra, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Katrine Boel Gregussen and myself on stronger rights and security for families with great care needs and families with children with severe illness and disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e262	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e267	On behalf of the representatives of Nicholas Wilkinson, Camilla Sørensen Eidsvold, Lars Haltbrecken, Katrine Boel Gregussen, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Mona Fagerås and myself, I will present a proposal for a truly equal and universally designed society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e272	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President will also ask the representatives to stay a little longer as there will be voting on case No. 1–12 and remaining cases from the last Tuesday are now initially. Case No. 1-12 is treated as a whole. The cases relate to the second processing of laws and apply to legislative decisions 92 to 103.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e407	No one has asked for the floor. Then Stortinget will go to voting on the case no. 18-23 from the meeting on 19 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e424	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-8, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 9 and 10, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The Government is required to withdraw from use of OPS for the Sotra connection.» [[public-private cooperation]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to depart from the use of OPS for the Hålogaland Road.’ [[public-private cooperation]] Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e464	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1-8, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the State Road Administration, the Directorate of Railways, the Bane NOR, the New Roads, the Municipalities and other relevant actors in public acquisitions prioritise the development of capacity and competence in local, regional and national business.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that public procurement is a procurement strategy that facilitates local, regional and national jobs.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that knowledge of, and experience from, Norwegian circumstances, such as climate and topography, is emphasised in public acquisitions.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that large contracts are broken down into sub-contracts after market dialogue, under the provisions on public acquisitions § 19-4. Breakdown of acquisitions.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Government requests the Government to use the acquisition strategy adopted on 31 March 2020 in the Innst. 216 S and ensure that the Hålogaland Road is divided into smaller sub-contracts, so that Norwegian operators have a real opportunity to compete for the projects. ‘... [[2019-2020]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The Government requests the Government to use the acquisition strategy adopted on 31 March 2020 in the Innst. 216 S and ensure that the Sotra connection is divided into smaller sub-contracts, so that Norwegian operators have a real opportunity to compete for the projects.» [[2019-2020]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that professional letters, apprentices and permanent employment on the construction site are required in public procurement to ensure that the rules of seriousness between the National Association of the Construction Industry, the Joint Confederation and the Norwegian Arbeitsmandsförbund are complied with in practice.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Commission to examine the action space within the Competition Act with a view to clarifying the possibility of cooperation for Norwegian contractors in the construction industry.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e526	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-9, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to set up an industrial competence centre in the West for marine zero-emission technologies and autonomous maritime transport systems, in close contact with both the research communities, the industries and clusters concerned and the state road network.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e559	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 2–9, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to find a solution with frequent zero-emission ferry take-offs as an alternative to ferry-free crossing of the Boknafjord. [[Mortavika – Arsvågen]] The investigation shall include an assessment of both the dietary/benefit and the climate/environment effects of crossing with zero-emission ferries compared to the ferry-free E39. Until the investigation is completed, all planning of the crossing is suspended.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to find a solution with frequent zero-emission ferry take-offs as an alternative to ferry-free crossing of the Bear Fjord. [[Halhem-Sandvikvåg]] The investigation shall include an assessment of both the dietary/benefit and the climate/environment effects of crossing with zero-emission ferries compared to the ferry-free E39. Until the investigation is completed, all planning of the crossing is suspended.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to find a solution with frequent zero-emission ferry take-offs as an alternative to the ferry-free crossing of the Sognefjord. [[Lavik – Oppedal]] The investigation shall include an assessment of both the dietary/benefit and the climate/environment effects of crossing with zero-emission ferries compared to the ferry-free E39. Until the investigation is completed, all planning of the crossing is suspended.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to find a solution with frequent zero-emission ferry take-offs as an alternative to the ferry-free crossing of Nordfjorden. [[Lote-Anda]] The investigation shall include an assessment of both the dietary/benefit and the climate/environment effects of crossing with zero-emission ferries compared to the ferry-free E39. Until the investigation is completed, all planning of the crossing is suspended.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to find a solution with frequent zero-emission ferry take-offs as an alternative to the ferry-free crossing of Vartdalsfjorden. [[Fessøya-Solavgen]] The investigation shall include an assessment of both the dietary/benefit and the climate/environment effects of crossing with zero-emission ferries compared to the ferry-free E39. Until the investigation is completed, all planning of the crossing is suspended.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to find a solution with frequent zero-emission ferry take-offs as an alternative to the ferry-free crossing of the Sulafjord. [[Hareid-Sulasundet]] The investigation shall include an assessment of both the dietary/benefit and the climate/environment effects of crossing with zero-emission ferries compared to the ferry-free E39. Until the investigation is completed, all planning of the crossing is suspended.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to find a solution with frequent zero-emission ferry take-offs as an alternative to the ferry-free crossing of the Romsdalsfjord. [[Molde-Vestnes]] The investigation shall include an assessment of both the dietary/benefit and the climate/environment effects of crossing with zero-emission ferries compared to the ferry-free E39. Until the investigation is completed, all planning of the crossing is suspended.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to find a solution with frequent zero-emission ferry take-offs as an alternative to ferry-free crossing of the Halsafjord. [[Halsa – Kanestraum]] The investigation shall include an assessment of both the dietary/benefit and the climate/environment effects of crossing with zero-emission ferries compared to the ferry-free E39. Until the investigation is completed, all planning of the crossing is suspended.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e621	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Bengt Fasteraune on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop all projects for the construction of four-field motorways with ÅDT less than 15 000 at the start of construction, but rather based on two- and three-field roads, preferably with mid-drawing works.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size always asks the government to upgrade or build a new railway before the new quadruple motorway if a new road is planned in the corridor with an old one-track railway.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e657	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to adapt future road development from the ÅDT, normalised road standards, costs, existing road capital, soil protection, topographical conditions and the other transport options available in the area. Distribution reasons need to be taken into account in the same way as socio-economic analyses.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e674	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a greater assessment of climate and environmental and spatial considerations in the construction of new roads, and asks the government to develop new guidelines, taking more account of this throughout the project phase, from the design phase to the completion stage.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e698	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e717	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, reads: ‘The government is asking the government to start its efforts to realise North Norway’. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e742	The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e754	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to conduct a draft selection investigation for transport solutions in North Norway in such a way that the North Norwegian Railway can be assessed at the next roll-over of the national transport plan.’ [[KVU]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e780	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to explore the possibilities for more cost-effective deployment of cycling and walking infrastructure while at the same time strengthening the objectives of cycling, life-cycle costs, road safety, accessibility and safety experience. The use of financial incentives and amendment of legislation on cycling shall be included in the assessment.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e806	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for more flexible standards to be developed in the road standards of the State Road Administration, which deal with the planning and construction of walking and cycling roads, which take into account different traffic volumes and thus different needs in different parts of the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e828	The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e847	In the course of the debate, Nina Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain the ownership of the property so that the self-managing institutions in the higher education sector continue to manage their own properties and building stock.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e864	The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e880	Case No. 1–12 is the second reading of laws and applies to legislative decisions 92 to 103. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. The budget will then continue to deal with matters on agenda No. 85.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e900	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: The allocated speaking time shall be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and shall be allocated to the party groups as follows: 25 minutes, 25 minutes, 25 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes for the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes for the Green Party, 5 minutes for the Green Party, 5 minutes for the Green Party and 5 minutes for the Red Party. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines of response after contributions from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e909	The issue of biotechnology law is ethically difficult, but also important. This law has remained unchanged for 16 years, and therefore the great majority of the Grand Duchy wants to modernise it. So the law has not been amended since 2004. At that time, John I. Alvheim stood in front to allow the PGD, which was absolutely necessary in order to give the family of Mehmet the opportunity to help their six-year-old child recover. It's been 16 years. Society has changed, and technology has become better, safer and more accurate, but the law has not changed as it does. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position, and each party will have to state its position on the matter. For us in the Progress Party, it has been important since the Mehmet case in 2004 to use today's medical methods to help families and individuals within ethical frameworks. The PGD offer for which Alvheim received a majority, we are further modernising today. We propose to make the PGD offer available in Norway, to wind up the denominators and to ensure that women and couples who are carriers of serious hereditary diseases and who are concerned that their future child will have a short and painful life, now through PGD can be allowed to have a healthy child. This is in line with John I. Alvheim's spirit, and I think he would be proud that the Progress Party made sure that his will was finally implemented. It’s high time – the last 16 years have the opportunity to give pregnant women better follow-up in pregnancy developed enormously, but the law has remained completely silent. The Progress Party will allow safer and better methods and follow-up in maternity care. Where women with high-risk pregnancies have had to carry out a water test to obtain information about their own pregnancy, a test which itself increases the risk of spontaneous abortion, a normal blood sample called NIPT can be taken today. NIPT is risk-free for both mother and child and can provide information to pregnant women in a gentle manner and early in pregnancy. This has been banned until now, but we will now allow it in Norway. The first ultrasound is a magical moment for coming parents – getting the opportunity to see the little man for the first time, getting a confirmation that it is alive, and want to write out some pictures that you can hang on the refrigerator and show up to friends and family. Early ultrasound is no enemy; it is a good one. We propose to do this as a fixed offer in public maternity care. In addition, for women carrying multiples, it is essential to know early on, so that you can get close and good follow-up. In some cases, it is also possible to provide the necessary health care to the foetus already in the womb. In the future, there will be even more treatments that can save children's lives in pregnancy, but then we will have to have a law that allows it, and women must be offered early ultrasound. The debate on foetal diagnostics is about whether to obtain information early or late, and whether to allow new and safe methods or to doubt old and risky methods. For all the women who feel that pregnancy is not compatible with life, we in the Progress Party believe that the most ethical thing is to let the woman get information about it early. Today we adopt a law that affects many people's lives, and precisely because the matter is difficult, it is also important. Technology is evolving, and it is time to use 2020 technologies rather than 2004 technologies. Where families are given information that the child carries the woman in the stomach, has a serious illness or disability, we as a society must stand up. Therefore, the Progress Party supports the government’s equivalence reform, which will give the family access to the coordinator already in pregnancy, and which can follow up and facilitate the family. We should always take care of families, even in a difficult situation. Anne Katrine has been involuntarily childless for eight years. She is brave who dares to stand up and tell about how it is. Getting cancer in the ovaries at the age of 21 and then experiencing that their eggs are being destroyed would have been tough for everyone to experience. Anne Katrine and her husband are not helped to have children because it is Anne Katrine who has challenges with fertility, and not her husband. Semen donation has been permitted in Norway for 90 years. It is generally accepted that if the man in the relationship has challenges with fertility, the couple may take advantage of sperm donation, but when the woman has challenges with fertility, egg donation is not allowed. There's really no fundamental difference. The party now proposes to allow egg donation in Norway, and we have spent a lot of time creating a framework for this that is ethical and professionally sound. An overall occupational environment and the majority of the population of Norway agree with us. In order to be allowed to donate eggs in Norway, a psychological assessment must be carried out first. The woman must be between 25 and 35 years of age and not have heritable diseases. Here it is important that the doctor make a thorough evaluation of all the ethical aspects that the woman must have thought carefully through before it is allowed to donate eggs. We expect the egg donation offer to be in place by 1 January 2021. We propose to legislate the child’s right to know the donor’s identity at the latest from the child’s age of 15. Parents get a statutory obligation to inform about it, and we set up a national register to keep track of it, so it's easy to get information. The Party considers that it is essential that the child be entitled to know his biological origin, whether egg donation or semen donation has been used. We separate layers with the Workers' Party and SV in relation to whom this offer is to be addressed. The Progress Party emphasises that donations should be an offer for those who want to have their own children. We therefore promote in the Committee's position on the proposal for a ban on embryo donation and dual donation. Embryo donation is where a family has assisted fertilization and had the children they themselves wanted. The fertilized eggs that were left over could in theory have been donated to other families. Children born after embryo donation will thus have genetic health care that grows up in several different families. That is what we believe in the Progress Party raises a number of ethical questions for the children, and we are against that. The point of progress is also against the possibility for couples or singles to receive both egg donation and semen donation. Children born after such a double donation will grow up in families where they have no genetic connection with their parents. The Progress Party therefore proposes that egg donation be offered only to couples – and only to couples who can provide half of the genetic material themselves. In this way, the child will have a genetic connection with at least one of his parents. I state once again that the child is given a legal right to know the donor's identity, and we hope that the government parties will therefore support our proposal for such an intrusion. I really hope that Norway, like most European countries, will decide to offer egg donation in Norway. For Anne Katrine and a number of women who are affected by serious illness and have had their eggs destroyed, this will mean an enormous amount – to be allowed to bring the child to their husband and fulfill the dream of establishing a family. Lonely shall also receive assisted fertilisation, and there are shared opinions on this. There are shared opinions in families, there are shared opinions in society, and there are also shared opinions in the different political parties. We have to respect that. When the Party of Advancement enters today in order to allow assisted fertilisation for solitude, it is under safe conditions that best suits the child. This is not a release. This is achieved in a way that is far more stringent in Norway than in countries with which it is natural to compare. In Norway, adoption of children has been one-off since the 1990s. Society has accepted that solitude can be good caregivers for children, but not for children with whom they have a genetic relationship. I think that's paradoxical. Individuals who want to have children must undergo an assessment of their suitability. The doctor shall assess here the financial situation of the woman, physical and mental health and social and family networks, and, if the State is to facilitate the provision of help to children by loners, the State may also make some demands. The Progress Party proposes that, in addition, a child-care certificate be issued. This shall reveal whether the woman is accused, intentional or convicted of serious crime affecting her care. This Child Care Certificate shall apply to all applicants for assisted fertilisation in Norway today. If serious crimes have been committed that affect the ability to be a good caregiver, they should also be rejected. Here we do not have a majority of the Workers' Party and the Center Party, but seek support from the government parties. No single woman will have access to egg donation. You have to have eggs yourself, so that the child has a genetic relationship with the parent they grow up with. We maintain the ban on surrogati. Children growing up shall have a statutory right to know the donor’s identity from the age of 15. The Progress Party therefore supports the fact that solitude can be assisted by conception, providing a strict framework to ensure that the child grows up with safe care personnel with whom they have a genetic relationship and where the child is also given a legal right to know the donor’s identity. I would like to take up with it the proposal that the Progress Party has made on the matter and look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e947	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e954	The representative of Bruun-Gundersen has explained well the views of the party and the assessments made. I'm not going to go into it, because we all respect that this is a demanding matter, both ethically and in other ways. But one thing I wonder about, is about some of these measures that the representative Bruun-Gundersen has been busy introducing quickly, some of it without further investigation. Among other things, early ultrasound, NIPT and other methods that are quite resource-intensive have been suggested rather large sums to put it in place. When we see the commitment of the representative Bruun-Gundersen to this, is it that this will be the most important health issue for the Progress Party in the budget negotiations? Is this the most important thing? Will the Progress Party put this in front of, for example: increased care for the elderly in budgetary negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e963	The Progress Party is concerned with health policy. We are committed to following up pregnant women who need information about their pregnancy, and I think it really is unworthy how the representative from the Right believes that money should be saved to detain information for pregnant women who are concerned about their child's serious illness. Today ultrasound is offered late in pregnancy, but by being able to offer it early, women will find out if there is life, how many lives there are, and what follow-up the couple need further. We believe that this should be a fundamental right: to get information about their own pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e968	The party of progress will propose assisted fertilization for singles, and since surrogati is banned in Norway, and will be banned, the offer will only apply to single women. A set of no age limits, and the offer, as I understand the proposal, will be partly financed by the public. One argues for egg donation as an equality case, but in this case it's the opposite. My question to the Progress Party is whether the Progress Party believes this is to equate women and men as caregivers, when assisted conception to single women should only apply to women.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e973	The Progress Party wants to allow assisted fertilisation for solitude in Norway today. There have been laws in Norway to have children adopted unanimously since the 1990s. I have not registered that the Senterpartiet wants to remove that scheme. But the Center Party is therefore opposed to the lonely being allowed to be caregivers for their genetic children. We recognise that this is a difficult discussion, but at least we have proposed to allow this in Norway now, in order to enable women to get this offer in Norway. We have to remember that Norwegian women travel to Denmark every year to get the same offer there. Here in Norway, it can be regulated within ethically sound frameworks, which ensure the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e980	I record that the Progress Party wants to introduce early ultrasound. They have themselves estimated that this will cost society about 100 million. kr. Calculations show that it can be a higher price than that. There is a lot of money to move from treating sick people to treating healthy people, and this is done even if the Storting has helped to establish criteria for health care priorities. I feel that I am not getting a very good response from the Progress Party on what is now to be down priorities, since this is now to be a priority for everyone, including healthy pregnant women, when you cannot even prove that it has a good health benefit? What is the reason why the Progress Party wants to prioritise in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e987	This is a great wish in our people. According to the last study I've seen for Oslo, nine out of ten pregnant women already take early ultrasound because they want a confirmation of whether there is life, and how many lives there are. Early ultrasound is crucial for the detection of multiple conceptions, which will be important in order to be able to have a close and good follow-up, but it can also help to save lives. I record that the Christian People's Party has doubts that ultrasound should be given, but it should be given late in pregnancy. Foetal diagnosis shall be provided, but it shall be given late in pregnancy and by a risky method. There we're simply disagreeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e994	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1000	Today is a historic day on the Stortinget. I know I'm very excited. That's because what we're going to deal with today is so important. The proposals we have put forward will have an impact on the lives of women and families. Yes, because it's actually the very life we're discussing here today. The Labour Party has a long tradition of putting women’s health, maternity care and technological development on the agenda. The changes we are promoting here today are based on the shoulders of many women – and men – who have paved the way for us. In 1986, Gro Harlem Brundtland presented the famous women's government, and it was Social Minister Tove Strand Gerhardsen who was delighted to introduce ultrasound in week 18 as part of public maternity care. It's starting to be years ago. The countries around us have expanded their offer to pregnant women for many years. Norway is the most restrictive Nordic country in terms of biotechnology. Today, we are finally going to change that. I want to explain the four main issues that are at the heart of today’s treatment. Egg donation for solitude is about more women being given the opportunity to become mothers. Even I have four children, and I understand that there are many women who have a burning desire to bear their own children. Allowing egg donation is a matter of allowing couples with women who are struggling with fertility to receive the same help that families have been able to get with sperm donation for 90 years. I think it's so inwardly unfair that women should almost feel like lawbreakers when they need help for their infertility, when we have at the same time had the long tradition of helping men. For many years we have had safe, good methods of extracting eggs from women, and there are no longer rational reasons why women too should not be able to voluntarily donate eggs to others. The argument that women can be exploited in vulnerable situations will be met by strict restrictions on compensation. We also demand that the donor be unknown, so that you cannot be subjected to pressure from, for example, a sister or a friend. That women, for the rest, should be in a worse condition than men to choose whether to donate away sex cells, bottoms of attitudes that the Workers' Party does not support. Assisted fertilization for lonely is about the many hundreds of women who travel abroad every year to become pregnant. There may be many reasons why people choose to have children as lonely. There are probably several people who got the e-mail from the woman who had lived many years in a bad relationship. She wanted a child, but dared simply not to have it with her husband. Such stories impress me. When she finally got out of the relationship, she began to get it busy having children. She had not found love again and decided to carry out assisted fertilization abroad. Because that's how we women have a little less time than men. From the middle of the 30s, the fertility of women goes down quite quickly. That is why I am pleased that women now also have the opportunity to store their own unfertilised eggs. In the past, this has been limited to women who, for medical reasons, may become infertile. In addition, the own storage of eggs may reduce the need for egg donation. If you have stored your own eggs from a younger age, these eggs will be of better quality if you need assisted fertilization later in life. Being able to store their own eggs also completes the circle in terms of women's control of their own family planning. Women may inhibit pregnancy by using contraceptives. Women may terminate pregnancy by having an abortion. Now women can also promote pregnancy by giving them the opportunity to take care of their own young and healthy eggs. Then we've gone a step further and can move on to the pregnancy itself. Finally, the offer Tove Strand Gerhardsen introduced in 1986 should be extended and Norwegian women should have access to early ultrasound and foetal diagnostics. There are many reasons why we want to introduce this. I personally would like to make one point in particular: Each year, between 20 and 30 twins are affected by a life-threatening condition called twin-twin-transfusion syndrome. In such cases, nutrition, blood and foetal water are transferred from one twin to the other. It is dangerous for both of them, and in serious cases there is a risk of heart failure and brain damage. There are two whole school classes that can go down! Early ultrasound saves these children. In twin captivity, it is important to clarify early on whether the twins share morcoma. As a twin mother, I have experienced the safety of regular follow-up in a risky pregnancy. To me, early ultrasound was important. This security must be provided for all twin mothers. At the same time, I would like to stress that I understand that this debate is painful and demanding for many. To parents who have great kids with a developmental deviation or a chromosome variation, and who would never have been the kids before, I would say: When I fight for the right to know, it also applies to the right to not know. When I fight for the right to choose, it also applies to the right to bring forward a child with developmental deviation without feeling that one is a burden on society. We have to stand up for them! The individual woman and family will make the right choice for them and their lives. The task of society is to ensure that families are met with understanding, competence and services that can contribute to their child’s quality of life and life. And here we have a lot to go on. This must be the next big equality fight – an equality fight that is many years in overtime. The last main theme I want to highlight is vital research and treatment. It's not just ultrasound that has health benefits for mom and kids. With the amendments to the Biotechnology Act, we also ensure that foetuses can receive the leading medical treatment by lifting the ban on gene therapy of foetuses. Today, advanced surgery and other medical treatments are being carried out in the last trimester. For serious genetic diseases, genetic therapy in the foetus could be life-saving or reduce future disease, pain and suffering. How can you falsify the protection of unborn life when at the same time you vote against the access of foetuses to the best possible treatment? The Labour Party believes that we must provide this opportunity for our very smallest patients, and we do not understand that the government parties are voting against. The Cancer Association last week published the strong story of 15-year-old Simen, who, thanks to a clinical study, had access to ground-breaking treatment. The Simen had just been told that he was a cancer for the third time. However, after a few months of treatment, two out of three children participating in the study were non-cancerous. The Sim starts in high school until the fall. The Sim has life in front of it. The updates we propose related to gene therapy are about making Norway competitive in the fight for such studies. Because while technological developments in gene therapy have accelerated, the Norwegian Biotechnology Act in this area has remained unchanged. The Cancer Association fears that Norwegian patients will not have access to treatment that will save lives because Norway has a slower and more extensive bureaucracy than other countries. That's why we simplify and clean up the law. Finally, I want to say something about the process. The Solberg government presented the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act three years ago, and it was addressed by Stortinget in the spring of 2018. But they ordered the law changes were stopped when the Christian People's Party joined the government and got veto rights on all issues of biotechnology. When the Progress Party later left the government, we were given the opportunity to rectify this. Now that the primary position of the Right and Left is not expressed, I am pleased that there is a width of parties, from SV to the Advance Party, that promote these proposals together with the Workers' Party. It underlines how broadly anchored these issues really are, and it is a strength for the matter. I would also like to thank the representatives Åshild Bruun-Gundersen and Nicholas Wilkinson for their excellent cooperation. The case has been dealt with thoroughly in several rounds and over three years. There have been more consultations and the public debate has gone on even further. The unusual thing is, of course, that the law work is done here in Stortinget. But adopting such a law, as the Storting does now, is actually the legislator's privilege. That's our job. Moreover, from 20 February onwards and until the date of release, the majority of the parties have received legal assistance from the Ministry in order to ensure the quality of the amendments to the paragraphs and the fullness of the draft law. Once the political matter has been lost, the last straw is to criticise the process. I believe that is incorrect. What is going to happen here today is democracy in practice. Today we're really getting to know the importance of all power in this room. With that, I address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1065	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1072	I'm not going to criticise the process, but there are some points we think could have been better investigated before it starts, and that's an honest thing, among other things. this with early ultrasound. I read in Bergen's Official Journal yesterday that the head of the department at the Women's Clinic at Stavanger University Hospital, Marit Halonen Christiansen, said that she fears that the new thing that is now adopted with early ultrasound is also very resource-intensive, and that it can affect sick women by being displaced by healthy pregnant women. The representative Moflag has been very committed to this very question, maternity care. So the Workers' Party has reflected something more about it, so how a quick start of early ultrasound will affect the capacity of other women in the clinic?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1077	Yes, because the Workers' Party is a matter for women's health which we want to raise on the agenda, so we have also made great efforts to do so in our budgets. We acknowledge that it will take some time to put in place the offer of early ultrasound, because it requires both the purchase of equipment and the training of personnel, which we have also spent money on. It is clear that we need to take some time to get all this in place, but for some of the cases it will be possible to get started on 1 January. With this, we want to signal that this is a priority, and we have also asked the government to back this into the state budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1082	The working party proposes to allow mitochondria donation in Norway. This is permitted in the United Kingdom, but they have not signed the Biomedical Convention, as Norway has. This means that the child will be able to get DNA from multiple people. The method is very controversial, it's not considered safe and defensive. There's a technical possibility of implementing this, but it's in violation of international conventions. I think it is alarming that the Labour Party is going so far that they are asking the government to work to change international conventions so that one can go further in Norway. My question is whether there is no limit to the Labour Party. Is it only the technique that is a limit, and not ethics, when it comes to what should be proposed in the biomedical field?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1089	You can turn your head around that question. We know about children who today live with a lot of pain, a lot of suffering, just because of mitochondrial diseases. It is the state, health and possibility of these children The Workers' Party is concerned when we will look at the possibility of allowing mitochondrial donation when the method is safe and sound in Norway. In contrast to part of the other concrete legislative proposals that we are promoting today, this proposal for mitochondria donation is a request decision, and it also acknowledges that this is somewhat further ahead. For the Workers' Party, there will be health benefits that are central. We know that there are many families who want this today, and we know that it's a tiny, tiny little part of the DNA that you want from the person who donates the egg you pick up the mitochondria.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1096	The representative, Mr Moflag, pointed out in his speech that many of the proposals that have now been put forward are proposals that have been examined and proposals that have been made in the public debate for many years. It is true that some of the proposals now being promoted that go beyond the proposition are proposals that were examined in the context of the Biotechnology Communication Stortinget addressed in 2018. But then there are proposals that have not been investigated – early ultrasound for all pregnant, NIPT tests, which are proposed as an offer for all pregnant, mitochondrial donation. These are things that have not been investigated. What is the reason why the Workers' Party believes that such major changes do not need any investigation at all, that there is no need for consultation, and that this should only be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1103	I had some of this in mind in my reply to the representative Kjersti Toppe. There are different approaches to how we promote these proposals. Some of us promote as concrete proposals for changes to the legal clauses, while others are request decisions. In particular, the proposal related to mitochondrial donation points forward and indicates that more needs to be put in place before this method is considered safe and sound and feasible in Norway. When it comes to early ultrasound, I was very interested in it in my post – why I think it is necessary. This is something that the Workers' Party has for several years believed to have a health benefit for both mother and child. We have had close contact with the professional communities in our work on preparing these proposals, and we are absolutely sure that early ultrasound and the offers relating to pregnant women are safe and sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1110	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1115	Last year, the four non-socialist parties promoted an up-to-date biotechnology law. This is the first major amendment of the law since 2004 and a significant modernisation of the law. It is high time that the Biotechnology Act was renewed. Much has happened in many areas since the law came into force, and there is a need to make changes in a number of areas. Only in this way can better treatment be provided for patients and professionals to develop better treatment methods. It was our government that agreed to change the Biotechnology Act after 16 years of standstill. The law is over-mature for change. We open up more research, better patient treatment and more efficient personalised medicine. Patients will now have better access to modern treatment, and we will simplify by removing unnecessary bureaucratic barriers. We bring about many important changes, such as removing the lower age limit for assisted fertilisation, extending the storage time for fertilised eggs and simplifying the rules for gene therapy. Biotechnology offers many opportunities for people in a society where there is room for everyone. At the same time, this is a matter that raises many demanding issues. Genetic and biotechnological knowledge and its practical use in healthcare have been an important part of the innovations in modern medicine. We are constantly getting more knowledge, and we are developing better and better methods that enable us to detect and treat diseases from the very beginning of life. It gives us great opportunities and presents us with difficult choices. The changes proposed by the government are based on the consensus of the Granavolden platform. The right is on concluded agreements and is therefore in line with what was proposed by the four non-socialist parties in government. Right is proud that, after no one else has succeeded in 16 years, we have brought about the modernisation of the Biotechnology Act with a thorough process and proper processor. This is, as I said, the first major amendment to the law since 2004. The absence of the red-green government resulted in delays in the legal work that the non-socialist majority of the population has taken on board. This modernisation opens up more research, better patient treatment and more efficient personalised medicine. We remove, as I said, the lower age limit for assisted fertilization, we extend the storage time for fertilised eggs, and we change the system to make it easier for a family to get the same donor for all the children. We ensure that insemination is not included in the government offer of three assisted reproduction trials. We impose an obligation on parents to inform the child if it has been conceived through assisted conception. We simplify the regulation of genetic testing in biotechnology research. Furthermore, we simplify and clean up the rules on gene therapy and exempt vaccines used in the national vaccine programme for the regulation of gene therapy in the Biotechnology Act. We lower the age limit for when the child has the right to know the identity of the sperm donor, from 18 to 15, and clarify the criminal liability by testing others, except for individuals who do so on behalf of and with the consent of the data. In addition, we remove the condition that gene therapy can only be used for the treatment of diseases that are considered serious. So here's a series of changes that benefit research. There was a lot of good in this law with which the new majority has worked. The rules on the use of stored fertilised eggs become simpler and the requirement for genetic guidance in predictive genetic testing is adjusted. The current requirement for the approval of diseases for which healthy people can be genetically tested is repealed and we clarify that the law applies only to projects where participants receive health care or are to receive individual feedback on the outcome of predictive genetic testing. The condition for gene therapy is clarified and demands for police and child care certificates are introduced to be approved for assisted fertilisation. Not all of these changes require changes in the law itself, but much of it is in the legal text itself. In addition, the right is included in the proposal to allow the willing of semen from deceased partners, as we believe it is well framed in the new legal text. For us, it doesn't seem logical to prohibit this as long as it opens up assisted fertilization to lonely. I think I'll come up with that later in the debate. The Biotechnology Council last week examined some of the changes Work Party, Progress Party and SV agree. The Biotechnology Council itself says that they have felt pressured to deal with these matters urgently. We're all aware that this has been a time pressure, but we've been basing ourselves on the consensus that we've negotiated over a long time. It's been 16 years since major changes were made to the Biotechnology Act, so this is a historic day. We've both evaluated the law and had it consulted, and we just have to realize that some of the changes that the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV agree on, are now being adopted without an ordinary consultation round and with a somewhat unclear frame. This means that they are urgently introduced without further clarification on funding, health care organisation and other necessary clarifications. The right considers that some of this is irresponsible to do as long as different necessary instances have not been heard, including: the result of the change of line, that one does not fully know how to introduce this, inter alia. within female health. I recommend that everyone read the answers from the Ministry of Health and Health attached to this case. They provide a good insight into how the process has progressed and must be considered as part of the process of this law. So to some of the points, and first the mitochondrial donation. It's the majority to open up treatment that leads children to get DNA from more than two people. There is insufficient knowledge of this today, including: the consequences it may have if donated mitochondria works poorly with the DNA of the mother’s cell nucleus. Mitochondria donation may also cause genetic changes in germ cells, and it is considered to be a scientific experiment. Norway cannot start with this, as it is contrary to international conventions. No country has fully succeeded, and the utility seems to be limited. Why, then, is it so important to press? The working party and SV will allow embryo donation and double donation. This creates children who have no genetic connection to their parents, and removes an important barrier to surrogati. Preimplantation diagnostics, PGD, are permitted in Norway today, but the application from the couples who want to use the method is assessed in a name of professionals. In the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act, the government stressed that removing the names could lead to pressure on the professional community to expand the offer and that a multidisciplinary composite approach ensures a broad evaluation of the applications. The right is behind this assessment. In early ultrasound: the Labour Party, the Advance Party and SV will give early ultrasound to all pregnant women as an offer in public health. There are probably arguments for that, but it is interesting to see the response from the professional team. This is very resource-intensive in a service that the Working Party in particular is busy pointing out is under pressure. At the latest in Bergen's Official Journal yesterday we could read that the Women's Clinic in Stavanger fears that this could have unintended consequences, where healthy pregnant women will be set up against women who do not have equal rights. The same applies to NIPT. NIPT is currently in use in Norway; nothing new is happening today. NIPT is authorised as a foetal diagnostic method in Norway for use in the identification of RhD-positive foetuses in RhD-negative pregnant women, for the detection of trisomi 13, 18 and 21 in foetuses, for the detection of serious hereditary disease and for the detection of severe genital disease. We've approved this in the last few years. The last approval was made on 2 March this year. In other words, the NIPT test is already part of foetal diagnostics, but for it to work in practice, we should not allow all healthy pregnant women to have the study. Then we're using the resources wrong. The NIPT requires specialised personnel and is a test that still has some uncertainty and scope for interpretation. Finally, a short and hectic final question was asked in a matter that has matured for a long time. I'm proud that it's our government that has promoted a modernized biotechnology law, because it hasn't been done in almost two decades. Women's rights and equality have been part of the debate, but biotechnology is about so much more. I miss, among other things: The child's perspective on this. As a wise lady said to me, no children have asked to come to the world. I respect that there are different opinions on this matter. No one can judge others in such questions. Slip safety is not in place. What is certain is that we had a consensus and were given a revision of the Biotechnology Act. When a party no longer stands behind the consensus, we have to respect it. The right complies with the agreed agreements and believes it is most appropriate to vote in favour of the law that the government submitted after a thorough process. I am therefore addressing the proposals we have made on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1157	The representative of Sveinung Stensland then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1165	I hear that the representative of Stensland is engaged in agreements. It is then important for me to point out that the Right is a quite big party – yes, even larger than the Christian People's Party and the Left together. A little over a year ago, the Right posted on its own websites, hoyre.no, the following: Right promises that they will vote in favour of the law on egg donation and assisted fertilization for lonely. My question to the representative of Stensland is: how valuable are their own promises to their voters? And why in all the days is this still out on the web pages?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1172	To that end, the representative of Stensland can now answer that we have reached a political agreement, and that has also been done by other parties, at all times, in this Chamber, in order to get the best possible impact on his policy. We have had a great breakthrough in the Granavolden platform, and this has been an important field for the Christian People's Party as well. We've been clear all along since the government's inception. Our whole group is behind the Granavolden platform, and we're on it. So that's how it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1177	This has been a long and thorough process. The road here started when the Progress Party was part of the government in 2014. On 11 April 2014, the Ministry commissioned the Biotechnology Council and the Health Directorate to evaluate the Biotechnology Act. The thorough evaluation, investigation and hearings carried out by the government in the period 2014-2017 resulted in a case here in Stortinget in 2017 on the evaluation. This, of course, resulted in a number of internal debates in the parties. In the right, it was well the women's network at Linda Hofstad Helleland and Tina Bru that stood in front so that the Right would go in to allow egg donation. Now both of them are members of the government and do not have the right to vote here in this Chamber, but my question goes to the right: how bad is it to vote against these changes? And if you had voted in line with your own conscience, how many representatives would have supported what the Progress Party has presented today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1182	It does not hurt at all to have a consistent position on this matter. In January, the representative Bruun-Gundersen himself was very satisfied with the law with which she is now not particularly satisfied. It shows that the Progress Party also submitted quite large compromises, since the Progress Party was behind the law that Bruun-Gundersen now does not seem to be good enough. I cannot answer for anyone other than myself, but I think it is perfectly okay that when we have entered into a negotiation and agreed on a government platform that the whole group has been behind, it is a natural thing to follow that agreement. It was also a natural thing for the Advance Party as long as they were in government. So that pain probably has the representative Bruun-Gundersen also known on himself in several contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1187	Right is against allowing assisted conception for singles, but in the setting they have gone into a proposal together with the majority to allow assisted conception for singles if this concerns a woman who is assisted by a dead donor who was a spouse or a partner. I think it's kind of inexplicable how to argue in this case when you go against assisted conception for single people, but allow it if you're a widow or a live partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1192	I am not surprised that the representative Toppe reveals the logical flaw that she may point out here. It turns out that when the Stortinget opens up assisted fertilization for lonely, it seems to me more logical that one can get it from a deceased partner if he has explicitly said that he wants to donate his sperm to his survivor – rather than that one is referred to as having a sperm bank from a person who has no relation to it. I believe that the framework done in the legal text is so good that we can go into it. This is a special case – the much-discussed Camilla case is the most well-known – but it is in a normal year about two cases. That is why the Left has also signalled to me and the Right that one should vote in favour of that proposal. But I also understand the objection from the representative Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1197	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1202	The aim of the Biotechnology Act is to ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. This shall be done in accordance with the principle of respect for human dignity, human rights and personal integrity and without discrimination on the basis of heritage based on the ethical norms enshrined in our Western cultural heritage. For the Central Party, it is important that changes to the Biotechnology Act do not conflict with this overriding objective. We believe that the precautionary principle must be emphasised in issues where medical treatment may have adverse or irreversible consequences for our descendants. What is allowed in other countries cannot be decisive. Norwegian regulation of biotechnology needs to be assessed in the light of our own views on ethics, values and what is wanted national regulation and fair prioritisation of health resources. The government has proposed 22 amendments to the Biotechnology Act, and the Center Party supports them in all respects. The Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left have tabled several new legislative proposals in the vote, in which the Central Party is essentially disunity. These have also not been out on the ears. I am pleased that a joint committee supports the proposals for decisions to ban genetic testing of children outside the healthcare system and that a person is given a distribution of the market for genetic self-testing with a view to regulating the law of the field. The centre party supports a new age limit for the right of children to donate information, is reduced to 15 years and an obligation to provide information to parents is introduced. We support the introduction of clearer and common guidelines for the assessment of the care of couples by assisted fertilisation, but we do not support demands for a police certificate to show whether a person seeking assisted fertilisation has been targeted, accused, instructed or convicted of multiple criminal offences, such as sexual crime, murder, drug crime and violent and criminality. But who should decide that previous convictions should not be entitled to health care in the event of infertility? What kind of crime is it that doesn't feel like being a parent? We believe that the requirement for police clearance goes too far. In addition, it can create false security. The centre party supports the storage of non-fertilised eggs and ovaries on a medical basis, but we strongly oppose the proposal from the majority to allow all healthy women to freeze eggs without a medical indication. This, we believe, could have unfortunate consequences, as well as commercialising reproduction and unwanted technology, and it could create pressure on young women to postpone pregnancy until later. The Working Party, Progress Party and SV will open for mitochondria donation in Norway. The center part thinks it's ethically problematic to open up for treatment where children get DNA from more than two people. We also think it is wrong to introduce a new method that is not now considered to be a medical defence agent, and where there is a lack of knowledge about the consequences. The proposal would be contrary to the biomedical convention to which Norway has committed itself. The Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the SV propose that we work towards a change in the Biomedicine Convention to allow mitochondria donation in Norway, indicates how far these parties are willing to go in order to apply the latest techniques in any event, even if they are contrary to international conventions in the field. The majority will allow egg donation in Norway. The centre party has confirmed that we do not want this. It opens for eggs to be moved from woman to woman. There is a more intrusive and more burdensome process than for donors of semen, so it cannot be equated. We believe that egg donation can lead to further materialization and technologyisation of reproduction, and that it is problematic against the Children's Convention and the rights of children have the greatest possible potential to know their parents. We also fear that an important barrier to surrogati will be removed if egg donation is allowed. Since the majority have refused to send the proposal on the phone, there are many questions about the device that will not now be heard. The working party and SV will allow the donation of both eggs and semen and the donation of ready-to-be fertilised eggs. That's not how the kids want a genetic connection to their parents. The centre party will, if appropriate, vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party here if not to allow this. The majority suggest assisted fertilization for single people. The center party has program confirmation that we believe that assisted fertilization should be reserved for couples. We have a special responsibility when, as a society, we create a framework around government provision that concerns children. It becomes more vulnerable when a child is growing up with only one caregiver and in this case without a father. In the case of assisted fertilisation for solitary, only women will be eligible, because surrogati is not allowed and will not be. If we introduce assisted conception for single people, break it with the principle of equality that men and women should not be discriminated against as caregivers. It also violates the principle that assisted fertilisation should deal with health care in case of infertility. But being single isn't a disease. The majority do not introduce any age limit, nor, and in principle, an 18-year-old single-bred woman can ask for assisted fertilization. I think there should be a limit on which the state should be involved in facilitating and financing. This is also a matter of priority in the health sector. The majority will terminate preimplantation diagnostics and transfer responsibility to the professional community. In this case, we are some with the government and the Biotechnology Council, which does not recommend this. The reason for this is that there will be more arbitrary outcomes of the applications and that the applications will not be as detailed as in the name of multidisciplinary composition. The majority suggest as early ultrasound as a routine offer to all healthy pregnant women to detect serious disease or harm to the foetus, as it says. Here, the plural part mixes ultrasound in normal ultrasonic pregnancy care as part of foetal diagnostics – it is essential. Yesterday I received 42,000 signatures against unnecessary foetal diagnostics. I have received many messages with criticism that these proposals are being put in place without any other explanation. The centre party believes there is no professional reason to carry out a mass investigation with early ultrasound of 50,000-60,000 healthy pregnant women every year. When the Knowledge Centre in 2012 summed up the research in this field, the conclusion was that there is no evidence of the health benefit of routine early ultrasound. There are no subsequent new knowledge summaries that provide the basis for a changed conclusion. Early ultrasound for all was also not recommended in the guidelines for maternity care that came in 2018, based on up-to-date medical knowledge on maternal and paediatric health. So what is the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the SV know that this knowledge base hasn't figured out? To the argument about finding foetuses with a criminal offence: the acquisition of knowledge concluded that there is a great deal of uncertainty about diagnostic accuracy for the detection of serious structural abnormalities, which it is called, among other things. heart failure. Ethically, such a routine examination is required because a significant consequence of such a routine examination is to opt out of it – that is, an abortion may take place. This is also a matter of priorities. In BT yesterday it was said that proposals for early ultrasound for Haukeland University Hospitals would lead to 5,000 extra ultrasound examinations per year, six new medical settings and four new ultrasound machines at a price of 1.3 million. kr. I fear what consequences this will have for the rest of the healthcare system, and that a priority is for healthy pregnant women instead of those who actually have a need. The majority also want an NIPT test to be the primary test for foetal diagnostics, while allowing him to be performed for all healthy pregnant women. An article in the journal of the Norwegian Medical Association on 15 May this year states that NIPT is accurate for trisomi, but with a cost per additional case of trisomi of approximately 4.4 million. kr for one extra case detected. If NIPT is used as the primary test for all pregnant women, 271 out of 275 estimated cases of foetuses are detected, but one will also receive 230 false positive tests. It indicates that this is not the case for a routine test. I would like to take up with this the proposal of the Centre Party on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1242	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1249	70 pst. by all pregnant women in the cities take early ultrasound. There is currently a social and geographical discrimination when it comes to those who have the ability to take early ultrasound, both because of each cage and because of costs. I don't think it's fair that my pregnant friends in West-Telemark don't have the same possibilities as those who live in a city. I thought that the Labour Party and the Center Party together were occupied with equal opportunities for people regardless of every cage in this country. So my question to the representative Toppe is whether the centre party is comfortable with this open discrimination between the city and the village that limits access to knowledge and information for many pregnant women. And will the representative Tope really tell all those who want security in pregnancy that it is not necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1256	First of all, I thought that the working party had to stop misinforming. There is access to early ultrasound in the public health service today. There is even an indication called ‘grief in pregnant women’. What we have to make sure is that this public offer will be an equal opportunity throughout the country. What the Labour Party suggests is that private people should come and give an offer where they don't know the content and don't know anything about the quality, and where many pregnant women are supposed to think they're getting more information than they actually get. Therefore, I believe that there is a wrong use of the health funds when we know that the large amount of knowledge, which happened last time in 2012 – and there has not been a new one afterwards – said that there was no health benefit for mother or children by introducing this as a routine offer. But introducing it after indication, as it is today, can have its clear advantage. That's the line the Center Party wants to work for, and of course it applies to the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1262	A little follow-up to the representative of the Vågslid: It may seem that the Workers' Party and the Centre now disagree on what is a good follow-up to pregnancy. It has been the case that the Workers' Party and the Center's party have previously been snuffed out about being the most affected party in terms of pregnancy follow-up. But how are we going to interpret the Central Party's resistance to early ultrasound? Is there a less for a good maternity care than the Workers' Party, or is there something we others have misunderstood? The word change that is now taking place is actually to misunderstand. Who wants the best for women?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1269	This is a question of providing health services as needed, that we should introduce an offer that will give mothers and children a health benefit. And then others might be busy that we're going to have an offer that many people want to use anyway. But for me and the Center Party, it is important that one in the Public Health Service provide health services that have been assessed and approved, that we do not introduce mass studies for healthy pregnant women that we do not know will have a health benefit. That is what this is all about. I'm overconfident that our line and our starting point will provide the best supply for women who are pregnant, because one then goes by risk, and one doesn't introduce those -- in one way -- fun-have offerings, which people get to use if they want, but it's not a public task.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1274	Today, women in central Europe are buying early ultrasound, but not those living in the country. My sister has bought it in Oslo, but those who live in Nordland, Finnmark and Troms do not. SV proposes public early ultrasound – public. The policy of the Central Party creates inequality between the city and the country. What is the Central Party going to do to ensure that everyone has the same right to foster diagnostics in the city and in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1281	The women in the districts may have a more healthy attitude to early ultrasound. It's not that because there's a lot of women in cities who use early ultrasound, it's the right way to take advantage of an offer. As I said, women can do whatever they want. They can buy services in the private sector, but what's supposed to be a public service has to be evaluated when it has a benefit to reduce social health differences and provide everyone with the most possible level of provision. We know that such a routine offer is not a solution, because it will not provide health benefits for mother and child as a routine offer. But when referred after the indication, of course, early ultrasound is useful. It's a part of the health service today. It has to be more similar in the whole country, and that's what we want to work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1286	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1291	This day is historic. We need to improve the law. We have a majority of the people. We have a majority in the professional environments, and we have a majority in Stortinget. SV suggests early ultrasound for all pregnant women. I'm a feminist. I trust that women will be able to control their own bodies. SV wants good and balanced information for all pregnant women. It's not the technology that's available, that determines which society we get. It's governed by what society we build. I've met the lion's mother. They're fighting a big fight for the sickest kids. It is a pity that in this country it is still necessary to fight for basic help and rights when you have seriously ill children. Therefore, SV is promoting proposals today to have a truly equal society for all and to strengthen the rights and security of families with high needs for care and families with children with severe illness and disabilities. I invite everyone to support that fight and vote for SV's proposal. We don't have to hide and hide information. We need to build a good society for everyone. This debate is a little bit weird. The conservatives will hide information from pregnant women. But the law is not equal to everyone, for those who can afford and have opportunity to get early ultrasound today. Pregnants buy early ultrasound; they travel to Sweden or Denmark to get NIPT. The rich get help and information, but those who don't have that much money don't get it. My friend Christin on the Nesodden was pregnant with twins. They both died in the stomach. With early ultrasound, the twins could be rescued. The choice is between hiding information and providing good and balanced information that can save lives. SV votes to save lives. The Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Centre complain that the Stortinget is changing the law on its own. Usually, we can trust that the government will follow up a majority decision in Stortinget – but not now. We had a majority at Stortinget in 2018 to get lonely to assist in fertilization. But the government did not follow up the decision, they did not make proposals for the Storting. We cannot trust the government in this matter. Then we have to change the laws today. Lone people can adopt, many families have one parent, and SV suggests that single people also have the opportunity to receive assisted conception. I'm glad that the majority proposes altruistic egg donation with low compensation. The payment shall not be a motivation to donate eggs. All donors shall receive psychological guidance and evaluation and good information before making the donation choice. In 2018, SV did not receive a majority to work actively to combat the exploitation of women in the international surrogati industry. Today, SV wins this case. The woman's body should never be bought and used for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1313	It may seem that Stortinget is making major changes to the Biotechnology Act at express speed. The case procedure went fast after SV, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party found each other in several areas of business. In similar cases, which have much less ethical and professional aspects, the Committee has sent questions for professional evaluation in the Ministry. In addition, the Biotechnology Council gives us good advice and guidance on ethically difficult issues that can have far-reaching consequences. This time SV, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party skipped advice from the professional environments in the department, and they gave the Biotechnology Council three and a half days, including weekend and 17 May, to give their opinion. My question to Mr Wilkinson's representative is therefore: has the ethical and professional debate in the inquiry been thorough enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1324	We have had an ethical and professional debate for 16 years. The majority sent a letter to the Ministry of Health and Health on 20 February, but we did not receive a reply. So yes, the matter came a little late, because the Ministry of Health and Health has not responded to a letter we sent before the Coronapandemy met Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1329	In a note SV, together with the Progress Party and the Working Party, wrote that they: ‘sees it also as a moral responsibility to contribute to human beings being born without a known risk of serious diagnosis, which often also leads to short lifecycles’. I found it a special remark to be made by SV, but I believe that this is also related to the suggestion of early ultrasound, which SV will introduce as a routine offer to all healthy women. How can the representative defend it when the last major knowledge acquisition showed that it will not bring health benefits, but will be able to increase the number of abortions of the fetuses with Down syndrome, as we also see is the result of other countries that have introduced such an offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1340	I think people should know that the report that Toppe is talking about is from eight years back. Technology has changed a lot. I have also said this here: My friend, Christin on the Nesodden, was pregnant with two twins. If she had twin-transfusion syndrome even now, we could with early ultrasound save these twins. SV suggests early ultrasound to all pregnant people because we can save children in the stomach, and that's important. We don't want to hide information. We want to provide good and balanced information that can save lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1345	First, I just have to say that it is a very bad thing that SV has failed in important ethical questions. Where we used to agree to say no to egg donation, the party has now left its position, knowing that we're introducing egg donation, we're removing the last chance against surrogati. So this responsibility is going to rest on SV. The Christian People's Party fights against a society where the female body is reduced to a sales product, and it's really disappointing that SV doesn't do the same thing. The representative Wilkinson believes the proposal for compensation for egg donation is altruistic, but tell me: Where does the boundary between compensation and sales of the female body go? Does the representative not believe that an amount of NOK 10 000, as we have heard in the debate now, can actually be a large sum for young girls, for students, for vulnerable women?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1352	That's wrong. There are so many comments that are SV's comments, because it's important that it's altruistic egg donation. There shall be a maximum of three outlets. It's going to be women from 25 years to 35 years. It has to be sober. It should not be above the other Nordic countries. Norway should have lower compensation than the other countries. It is also stated in the EU regulation that the money should not be a motivation to give eggs – it should be altruistic. The Christian People's Party says it's the technology that's very difficult, but today SV has two suggestions to get better help for families and children. I hope that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of our proposals to help the children – not just cut the information for the families.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1359	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1364	You don't have to be Left-Man here today to realize that these are difficult issues, but I have to say it helps! There are many considerations to be weighed for and against – the consideration of unborn life, the consideration of the right to self-determination, the desire to be led was, while welcoming innovation and progress. There are amazing things happening in this field that benefit the human being, such as gene therapy, that enable targeted changes in the genes of humans to be made and that can prevent and cure serious disease. The research on mitochondria donation is also fascinating. Such progress is exciting to follow. The primary position of the left is that we are broadly in favour of these amazing advances, but we must make sure that they are safe both from a medical and ethical point of view. Even though more has happened in biotechnology with the Christian People's Party in government than what it did with the Center Party in its time, we admit that we could wish for more. There is little doubt that the Biotechnology Act is over-modern. It came out with clarity when we considered the evaluation of the law in 2017. In the vote, everyone can read the main points of view of the parties, including that the Left is in favour of liberalisation, which has been promoted here today. It should also be known to all those involved in politics that cooperation and a majority are required to achieve something. The left has many breakthroughs in Granavolden on major and important issues, but where there are several parties, everyone should also have their impact. This is what the compromises in politics are. If we'd agreed on everything, we wouldn't need more than one party. That is why I have to say today that there are failures in the policy that we are less concerned with than others. Keeping agreements is about voting against what you are for — and vice versa — sometimes. Conscience is so lacking. Today, my conscience is linked to the government project, as it was in other matters that we have just dealt with here in this room. We could have voted in favour of the emergency and food supply in Alta, for example. We're opposed to Oslo University Hospital's gigantic plans, but we've voted in favour, because we're part of a platform that, in the longer term, gives us greater counting. And not least, we're going to insist that the cohesion lasts on the day we're going to deal with the drug reform. There's a lot that can be said about this law, but the time is too short. So let me just divide a couple of considerations: Egg donation for lonely, which is legal throughout the EU, is a good thing that we can now allow in Norway. We have for too long deprived a number of children of the opportunity to know their genetic origin by the fact that lonely people have traveled abroad to assist in fertilization. There's law, there's cheaper, and there's anonymous donors. Anonymous donors are not allowed in Norway, fortunately. Although I'm convinced that every child and their parents can be just as good, or stronger, attached to the child even though they don't share the same genes, I recognize that many people need to know their origins. But it's about infinitely much more than genes. Genetic connection provides no guarantee of good growth. That's enough of examples of the opposite, unfortunately. That leads me to the next thing I want to convey. When it is so very important for the Advance Party that 50 pst. genetic material must belong to one of the care parents, excludes a number of people from the possibility of having children. Those undergoing assisted fertilisation, longing for the child, and association through pregnancy. It's pretty little logical that an infertile woman should only get help to get pregnant if she has a partner. If you are lonely and infertile, or have a serious illness, you should not have eggs and semen at the same time. Then you have the choice not to have a child or take a high risk of having a sick child. As a small apropos: there are also such situations where mitochondrial donation can help to avoid, for some serious diseases. So, what signals do we send to all adopted children in the world when it's so very important to grow up in contact with genetic origin? I believe it holds that it is not possible to be an anonymous donor, and that the child can thus get to know his genetic origin at the age of 15, which is important for identity. Finally, I would like to say very carefully that I am pleased that the majority's opinion will be expressed in a new and more modern biotechnology law here in the country, and I am very pleased that Camilla, in a much-mentioned case in Westfold, can now have children with the donated semen from her late husband, at least the possibility of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1394	I note that Left spends its speaking time criticising the fact that the framework of the Progress Party here is not liberal enough. It is a paradox when this is actually a matter that the Left can be involved in and decide today. The left may be present in the hall and decide which device for egg donation or assisted fertilisation to allow Norway, but the left alerts that they will vote against all, however. I record that they fall a tear over it, but my question is: What is the Left opinion so important in the platform, that trumps this matter? What single issue in Granavolden is so important for the Left to get a majority here in Stortingen that the Left now chooses to vote against the changes in the Biotechnology Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1399	It's the Granavolden platform that trumps our point of view here in the hall today. All parties in this country – since 1961, when the one party state with the Labour Party in the head was no longer in an absolute majority – have had to make compromises. And the left has done that in this case, and I'm happy with it. Although I'm disappointed that we couldn't vote for our primary policy, I realize that here we have to take such a position to get through on other important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1404	These are the other important things I want to get to the bottom of. So the left is part of a government that sits in minority. The possible success of the Left in Granavolden, it is not given that you are given a majority in this big deal, where the majority is different. So I'm trying to ask again: what individual saying in the Granavolden platform is what is so important to the Left that they choose to give the Christian People's Party support in the biotechnology issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1409	A few words about loyalty: Keeping together in government cooperation is important. Shouldn't that happen – and that we act like a random group of people who think different things now and then – it's bad out there with our entire government project. Let me do e.g. The breakthrough we have had with the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja: should the Right suddenly present a proposal, a loose proposal here in the Chamber, to go to the investigation of oil drilling in the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja? – I'm sorry to bring this up today, President, there are other things we're talking about – and it could even be right here for a majority. But the Right has committed itself to this cooperation, in the same way that the Left has committed itself to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1414	Today, the Left is voting against many things that they are really in favour of. The left has bought with the woman's rights to receive ministerial posts. The representative said they're loyal. Then I'd like to ask, is the Left loyal to women who want information and rights, or is the Left always loyal to the Christian People's Party and the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1420	I think it was a strange question. We are not «always loyal to the Right and Christian People's Party», but we are loyal to the government platform we have entered into. I believe to remember that there was a party that demonstrated against its own government here in plenary not too many years ago, so SV has been in exactly the same position and should know well what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1425	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1430	Today we are debating some difficult and not least ethical issues. These are vulnerable questions, and the grey areas that we can move into are large and partially unknown. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that all people have a unique value and an equal value. A society with space for everyone, equivalency for everyone and room for everyone, there's a lot of talk about, and there's also been a lot of talk about these days. Today, this is what it is all about in practice. The Biotechnology Act, which is a theme here today, has the following purpose paragraph: ‘to ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. This shall be done in accordance with principles of respect for human dignity, human rights and personal integrity and without discrimination on the basis of heritage based on the ethical standards enshrined in our Western cultural heritage.» This is an important guide for discussing changes to the law. Based on the agreement of the Granavolden platform, the government has made several proposals for amendments to the Biotechnology Act. As many have pointed out in the debate during the past few weeks, technological developments in the field are rapidly taking place. That is exactly why I am pleased that more research will be facilitated and that specialised environments of competence will be developed in this field. Good technological development in e.g. cancer research will be important in the years to come. The UN Children's Convention says that children have the right to know their parents. Therefore, it is important that the age limit for when children have the right to know the donor’s identity is reduced to 15 years. Everyone doesn't want to know, but for those who want to know, this is important information to be able to get. We are discussing several proposals here today that are major changes in how we as a society should facilitate the creation of children and the kind of ties they have with their parents. There are many stories from those who are looking for their parents or have spent much of their lives looking for where they come from. This urge to know one's relative, to understand one's understanding and to know that one's standing in a genetic heritage, to know where one comes from, lies deeper within us than we would often admit. I don't think the questions people at all times have asked themselves – who am I, where do I come from – are gone even if technology evolves. That's exactly why I'm worried about the enormous consequences some of these proposals can have in the future, not because the technology necessarily fails us, but because these issues are bigger and more important than what is technologically possible, and we need to have room for the ethical discussion about what we want to allow. For me, it's most important that our society has room for everyone and space enough for us to be ourselves, with all the qualities, the diseases and the function we have, in all the phases of life. Nobody's the same. No one is perfect, but all people are equally worth it. I am deeply concerned that early ultrasound to all pregnant women will create a narrower society, where not everyone is equally wanted and welcome, where diversity is not as great, and the fight for the right to live when you are different becomes tougher. Look at Birgitte, who's been telling his story for the past few weeks. She had to tell the doctor three times that she did not want abortion when she was pregnant, because the doctor thought there was a risk of Down's syndrome. But little Ida was so wanted and so welcome, and she has more and more opportunities for a great life. Those with Down's syndrome, like the rest of Norway's population, live longer and longer. Several of the diseases they had died early in life can be treated by health services, and they break barriers in sports arenas, in the public conversation, and in many other places. Early ultrasound has no proven health benefits, and in those countries that have introduced this offer, it is mainly used to detect chromosome errors such as Down’s syndrome. The Christian People's Party also believes that we must clear up space for diversity in our society and not clear it up. For various reasons, some have a pregnancy where ultrasound is required in the first three months. That offer is to continue and is an important part of the care we provide to those who have a risky pregnancy. But there is already too little competence and money in maternity care. Early ultrasound to all pregnant women would thus go at the expense of other patients, and who are we to deprioritize?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1456	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1461	A modern biotechnology law will provide health care to more people. That must be good. We need to have a wealth of help and help for families with great care needs. The Labour Party has been in front of all the rights that families have today. But must there be so much suffering and distress? Trisomy 18 cannot be called ‘to be a little different’. Trisomi 18 leads to such serious malformations that most die within a week. Why does the Christian People's Party want these families to have to live with the uncertainty it entails, the suffering it causes not to know and get the action choices they will still have in the ordinary ultrasound survey of week 18, which I heard the representative Bekkewold argue to maintain?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1466	That for individuals and individual families it can be experienced as a health gain to get early ultrasound, I should not deny. Today it is also such that you can ask for early ultrasound. One of the criteria is that you know about anxiety, or that you have had pregnancy complications in the past. We want to maintain this. However, the aim of the Workers' Party is to offer this as an offer to all pregnant – 60,000 women. What concerns the Christian People's Party is that we should now systematically – from the public point of view, from the social point of view – start looking for what is weak, to remove it. We share that concern with many; I was present yesterday and received over 42,000 signatures from people who are concerned about this social development. And when there is no evidence that there is a health benefit from introducing this for all pregnant women. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1471	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1476	Individuals in Norway have been allowed to adopt children since the 1990s. In 2004, the then Minister for Children and Family Laila Davøy, from the Christian People's Party, was outside and cheered because for the first time a lonely man was allowed to adopt children in Norway. I wonder why the Christian People's Party believes that lonely people can be good caregivers for adopted children, but not for children with whom they have a genetic relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1481	I hope that the representative Bruun-Gundersen sees the difference in introducing a public offer that is about assisted fertilization for solitude, and what has to do with adoption. When it comes to adoption, we're talking about children who are born, who need a safe framework around their lives, and then we've said that solitude, too, has to adopt. But the challenge of today's proposal is that the public should now facilitate the birth of a child into a reality where you become more vulnerable, as you only have one parent. I mean, lonely parents do a great job, they're amazing people, they're really the heroes of the day. But when it comes to making arrangements for the public, we think that we need to make sure that the child gets the good framework around his or her life, and we think it's with two parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1486	I've told you before, but my friend Christin from the Nesodden was pregnant with twins, and they both died in the stomach. With early ultrasound, the twins could be rescued today. The choice is between hiding information and providing good and balanced information that can save lives. What will the Christian People's Party do to save or help pregnant women who may have twin transfusion syndrome?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1491	The Christian People's Party is concerned that we should have a good birth and maternity care in Norway. We have to have the goal of having the best of the world. Nevertheless, I believe that introducing early ultrasound and NIPT tests to all healthy ones is the wrong resource use, and I am afraid of the consequences of that. It is also a question of when to enter and treat the diseases that are discovered in pregnancy. I would like to hear the representative from SV say something about when in pregnancy it happens. I know that some of these treatments take place only after a week, as you normally have an ultrasound examination in your pregnancy. But that's the consequences of introducing this as a screening to anyone who cares about us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1499	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1504	Few things become so personal to many as when it comes to the meeting between technology and the start of a new human life. I have, like several others, received many enquiries lately, with personal stories and strong appeals. I have great humility for that, and I also want to thank you for the recordings. It may be tempting to place this debate as the liberal against the conservative, as the individual's freedom against a common morality, but to me it's a simplification. There is no need to have a conservative view of the family in order to be skeptical about assisted conception for loneliness, and in the same way, one does not have to be unaccompanied by human dignity to support changes that will provide more mothers with health care and access to information about pregnancy and their child. In several of the issues we are voting on today, we are facing a mix of ethical and pragmatic considerations. The Greens vote today for egg donation and to allow assisted fertilisation for solitude. Today, there is little risk of egg donation and sperm donation has been allowed for many decades already. Children who are born through assisted fertilisation are strongly wanted and long planned. We also believe it is important to defend an open and inclusive view of the family. The family is the closest we have. Caring ability or family ties do not depend on civil status or economics, nor should there be a premise for the offers to those who need help to have children. However, we are also voting in favour of the proposal that, in case of assisted fertilisation, one must remain silent with 50 pst. of the genetic material itself. A lone woman who wants assisted fertilisation or donation must therefore use her own eggs. So we believe, as the Progress Party, that we should not allow double donation and embryo donation, which have new ethical implications. However, similar couples will now have the opportunity to choose that one woman's fertilized eggs can grow and be carried forward in the partner's womb. We in the Greens are also voting today to offer early ultrasound for all pregnant women and to allow the blood test NIPT to more people. We believe that a better offer of foetal diagnostics is right to provide even safer maternity care, no matter where you live, or how much you earn. For parents, and especially for mothers, early information is important when it comes to risky pregnancy. Foetal diagnostics saves lives, and where life cannot be saved, it is usually an advantage for the family to know it early, which the parents should be able to choose. When you're pregnant, you're like a fungus, especially the first time. Most people who carry a child are looking for knowledge about the new situation, and many around want to give you good advice on the road, preferably with big, open eyes and also a little wet in their eyes. In this well-considered information situation, the welfare state is a strong authority. What signals we send in maternity care are important. The Greens are fighting for a society with great acceptance for diversity and diversity. Variability of function in the foetus should never be communicated as a problem that should be removed. Parental care shall provide parents with knowledge and safety. We're not going to give them increased pressure, either way. This means that we have a commitment to both neutral information on what different findings in an early ultrasound, KUB test or NIPT test mean, and on where parents can find advice and support. And not least: that means that we have to be able to assure parents that the welfare state has a well-organised offer for the children that takes into account the individual possibilities of children for development and mastering, regardless of functional variation. For example, children with Down’s syndrome and their parents today do not have the best, professionally up-to-date pedagogical offers to give their children the best chances. They should, and we are obliged to work for that, also in the Greens. I will end by saying that on such days with sharp votes in important, personal questions for many, I know the humility of the confidence I have received as a people elected. In this debate there are many values that we can also agree on, and I hope today we have a modern, up-to-date law that balances different concerns in a good way. And I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1525	Today, the Storting will make a number of decisions that are important advances in women’s rights and that Red has fought for too long. This is a clear response to a government that has repeatedly attacked women's abortion rights. Ultrasound, NIPT test – it's about women's rights and the ability to make informed choices. Now the NIPT test shall be made available to all pregnant women over 35 years of age and to all women if early ultrasound findings are available. The latter also becomes available to all pregnant women independently of purchasing power. This is important in order to ensure fairness and equal access to health care. It's important, because it's the woman who knows best what is right to do and the child she might be giving birth to. Red also supports the proposals for assisted fertilisation for lonely, the proposals for the storage of unfertilised eggs on a non-medical basis and the proposals for research on fertilised eggs. We do not support the proposal on egg donation, as it exists. Red says yes to egg donation, but only from women undergoing IVF treatment. We are aware that our proposal does not open a larger market for egg donation, but the position is that women undergoing IVF treatment are already in a process where eggs are extracted. Unlike sperm donation, egg donation poses a certain risk to the donor, since it involves hormonal stimulation and surgical intervention. If egg donation is now opened with financial compensation, there may be an unfortunate pressure on women with poor advice. So the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party say that we should not raise the level of compensation in the Nordic region. So if we add up to the same level, we don't talk about sums. In Iceland, women are paid NOK 10 000 per egg donation. In Denmark, the payment is similar. When they increased compensation to this level in Denmark four years ago, they also received a double in the number of egg donors. No batches in this room want economically motivated egg donation, but what we're at risk is a class distinction in which the body is exposed to something that could be a health risk. It's not that egg donation becomes altruistic just because we write in a big decision that it should be – not if there's at the same time a payment that's a lot of money for people who can't afford it. That is why Red is voting against the proposal of the Labour Party, SV and the Progress Party today. We did the same thing in this room two years ago, because, like parts of the women's movement, we're worried about economically motivated egg donation, and because an informed choice requires sufficient information. As the Women’s Front points out, there are no long-term studies on the effects of the egg donation on the female body. The female front also says that it will be impossible to avoid a situation where some vulnerable and low-paid or poor women feel pressured to donate eggs because of the economy and the compensation planned. This is why we are proposing instead the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with legislative proposals to allow egg donation from women undergoing IVF treatment and consenting to donation, with the same strict rules as for sperm donation. Donor shall be unknown and non-anonymous.’ That's what the Biotechnology Council went into in 2015. It was this SV suggested in Stortinget two years ago. This was the practice in Denmark from 1997 to 2003, when egg donation figures were relatively stable between 121 and 159 per year. On that basis, I take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1543	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1550	I heard the representative of Moxnes say that they are too egg donation, but not in the form proposed by the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV. On the other hand, red will propose a system of so-called surplus eggs. But Red has received very clear feedback from the trade unions that there is nothing called excess eggs, because when a woman undergoes assisted fertilization, the eggs are fertilized with the man's sperm before they are frozen. Can the representative of Moxnes clarify, or actually confirm, that the Red's yes really means no?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1555	I can’t, because this was the practice in Denmark in the period 1997–2003, when the number of donations was fairly stable – as I mentioned in my post – between 121 and 159 per year. So there are so-called excess eggs. So when they opened up for general donation, and so the compensation increased, there was a double in the number of donations. So it might show that our and also the Women's Front's concern for economically motivated egg donation has not been completely removed from the air. There are class divisions. There are also women who have poor advice. Offering us 10 000 kroner per donation, which is the case in Iceland and Denmark, can give us an unfortunate pressure, which I think the Labour Party also sees when they think a little bit more deeply about that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1562	What the scientific community has told us is that the practice from Denmark could mean that a woman who was going to undergo assisted fertilisation was told that she would get it cheaper if she chose to donate eggs at the same time. I think it's a much more unethical situation and a pressing situation to put women in. Why should it be that the women who themselves have struggled with infertility should wear this on their shoulders? Does the representative of Moxnes not see that it can feel like a pressure to help those who have it even more difficult than yourself?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1567	What we're in favour of is just a scheme that doesn't have the kind of economic, potentially unfortunate consequences it opens up to now. I do not believe that the Workers' Party wants such a scheme, not at all, but when you say that you should not increase the level of compensation beyond the Nordic level, and today the level is NOK 10 500 in Iceland and NOK 10 000 in Denmark, and when we saw that the introduction of that payment doubled the number of donors in Denmark, there is reason to be a little concerned that women with poor advice, who are exposed, may feel a sort of pressure. There are structures in society. There are differences in poor and rich, the Workers' Party also knows, and in such a situation, in a non-ideal world of large class divisions, this may be unfortunate. That's why, like the Women's Front, we're concerned that there might be a consequence – which is unintended, but a consequence of a general opening for egg donation with this compensation that it's added up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1574	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1579	Medical progress gives us great opportunities and also presents us with difficult choices. The government's proposal for changes to the law will provide patients with better treatment and professionals with the opportunity to develop better treatment methods. It is high time that the Biotechnology Act was renewed. Much has happened in many areas since the law of the day came into force in 2003. Opportunities in these years have increased and increased, but many of the ethical challenges have also increased and increased. It is about exploiting biotechnology for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for everyone. This shall be done in accordance with principles of respect for human dignity, human rights and personal integrity and without discrimination on the basis of heritage based on ethical standards enshrined in our Western cultural heritage. This means that biotechnology must be regulated by law. It's too big a question to just leave to researchers and professionals on the one hand or to the individual's choice on the other, because both the researcher's choice and the individual's choice could have consequences for all humanity if the law doesn't set any limits. The bill that was promoted by the government has been made after a thorough process, even though it was urgent to update the law. In 2014 I gave evaluation assignments to both the Health Directorate and the Biotechnology Council, and in 2017 the government presented a global report. With the message, we brought the difficult issues in the biotechnology field to Stortinget. Not only did we present and discuss issues such as egg donation and assisted fertilisation for lonely but other important issues were presented, such as: storage of unfertilised eggs, diagnostics and simplification of the law to provide better research. Questions that had lasted a long time, we highlighted with the latest information on professional development and arguments for and against, and several proposals were made. In December last year, the government presented a total of 16 proposals for amendments to the Biotechnology Act for the Stortinget. These are changes that will give patients access to better treatment and allow professionals to develop better treatment methods. Among other things, the rules for genetic research will be modernised. Genetic research gives us more knowledge of why we get sick, and better treatment when we get sick. Now we're making it easier to do this kind of research. Gene therapy is increasingly giving us opportunities to treat disease by repairing genes or replacing missing genes. These are the possibilities we're going to use more. Gene therapy should now be available for the treatment of all types of diseases, not only those characterised as serious. Today's biotechnology law has a rigid regulation of genetic research. Genetic studies are an important tool in disease treatment and disease risk monitoring. They make it possible to tailor the treatment for the individual patient. Amendments to the laws should facilitate the use of genetic studies in patient treatment. Today's Biotechnology Act requires the destruction of fertilised eggs after five years. It is too strict and has led to pressure on families who have been dependent on assisted conception to have children. We are now lifting the five-year limit for the storage of fertilised eggs and giving the establishments an obligation to keep fertilised eggs until the age of 46. The current Biotechnology Act only allows women to store eggs and ova during treatment that reduces fertility. Women who lose fertility early for other reasons have not had this possibility. Now more women are to be given the opportunity to store unfertilised eggs and ovaries. The position of children shall be strengthened. Parents are required to inform children that they have been given semen donation. In addition, children are entitled to know the donor’s identity when they reach the age of 15 years — today the age limit is 18 years. Much argues that it is positive for the child and the family that the parents are open to the child that it has been produced by means of semen donation. Unintentional detection can be dramatic, psychologically traumatic and devastating for the trust of parents. Many children do not have the right to donor information because their parents do not say that they have been made by donation. When we help children into the world, we also have to do what we can to make them feel safe. Couples seeking assisted conception shall be required to provide a child-care certificate stating whether they are intended, accused or convicted of serious criminal offences, such as: sexual crimes, gross violence and murder. We also set an upper age limit of 46 years for assisted fertilisation to prevent treatment being offered to increasingly elderly women who are at high risk of complications. The biggest and most extensive changes in the law that are being made today, to which I have now explained, and to which everyone has a majority today, are the result of the cooperation between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The debate and vote today will show whether there will also be a majority of the most controversial and controversial changes that have often overshadowed – and even today overshadows – the rest of the debate on biotechnology. But I do not see the idea that in these questions too, there is still an important distinction between the Progress Party on the one hand and the Labour Party on the other. This is an important threshold that is essential for the development of legalising surrogati in Norway. That the Progress Party says no to the donation of fertilized eggs and demands that there should be a biological bond to at least one of the parents, is a very important limit to surrogati to which I also hope the majority of the Stortinge join today. The methods used for foetal diagnostics are not regulated by law. I perceive that the majority actually believe that all pregnant women in Norway are now to be offered foetal diagnostics without any indication or increased risk. It will require that women be given good information both in advance of the conduct of such a study and subsequently when the results are to be disseminated. There is a re-priority of the use of health professionals from work with patients in need of follow-up to the diagnostics of healthy pregnant women without any indication of any need to do so. The only purpose you can see is to find as many fetuses as possible that are different. I believe that this is contrary to the purpose of the law and is also contrary to how we otherwise prioritise health care resources. This is a proposal that has not been sufficiently clarified. We don't know the consequences for health care. We don't know how that can be done. And neither do we know the consequences of these proposals for the offer to other patients. This is not part of the law itself, because it is not regulated in the law. It is a Roman number proposal that the majority have put forward, and it violates the way we introduce new methods and diagnostic methods in healthcare. It breaks with the priority stitching, and it breaks with the system of new methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1619	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Health and the Department for the legal assistance that the parties have received, which has ensured that what we are presenting today is comprehensive and thorough. I want to ask the Minister of Health a question about the NIPT. NIPT has been approved for a number of purposes in recent years: identify Rhesus positive foetuses in Rhesus negative pregnant women in March 2015 detection of foetal trisomi 13, 18 and 21 approved in March 2017 and March 2020, respectively; to detect serious hereditary disease; to detect serious sexually transmitted disease; The latter two objectives were approved in April 2018. Can the Minister of Health explain why he feels it is important for Norwegian women to have access to NIPT, as he has ensured that they are given?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1643	Yeah, that's right. I am the one who has approved the introduction of NIPT in Norway and has constantly increased access for who should be able to use it. But there is a very significant difference between the use of the NIPT I have approved, and the use that the majority of people today may be in favour of. The whole purpose of the NIPT test that I've approved is to give the woman an opportunity to carry out that test, so that you can avoid unnecessary foetal water tests and morcine samples. This means that it is those women who are currently entitled to foetal diagnostics — for many different reasons — who are currently being offered NIPT tests in Norway in order to avoid foetal water testing. What the majority here advocates is actually to offer fetal diagnostics to all women without there being any basis for it or establishing any system for e.g. to provide the advice and guidance that such tests may require. Nor does anyone know what the NIPT test will provide answers to in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1648	It is true that the majority will ensure that more women get the information they want. I go back to the Minister of Health's posts, where he spoke warmly about gene therapy and that there are some decorations there, which we are all pleased with, among other things. gene therapy can now also be used to treat diseases that are not classified as serious, so that Norwegian patients have access to the best treatment methods. I wonder why the government parties do not want to agree that gene therapy should also be offered to the foetus, so that our very smallest patients can have access to the best treatment, as the health minister himself described gene therapy which, if serious genetic disease is detected in the foetus that can be treated in the last trimester.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1655	It's about the uncertainty about these kinds of methods and how far you've got into it. It is important when making laws in this area that one balances keep pace with developments at the same time as one has a pre-war thinking. That is one of the reasons why this law should be updated regularly. But it should be updated after thorough processes. I believe that the vast majority of the decisions taken today are based on thorough processes, but the questions related to using mitochondrial donation, early ultrasound and NIPT tests for all women are questions that have not been investigated and that have not been the subject of the thorough process requiring such serious questions. A person here talks a lot about information and security, but when the information can't be communicated in a very safe and good way, it doesn't create security, but maybe the opposite of uncertainty and fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1662	To the question of mitochondria donation, which the Minister of Health now raised in his answer, can he confirm that, when we promote it as a request decision, we will have just the hearings he asks in that very question?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1667	Of course, those questions will be followed up. What is one of the challenges today, including: with mitochondrial donation, it is contrary to international conventions signed by Norway. I understand that the majority want Norway to work to change these international conventions. I perceive that it's relatively little realistic that we have the opportunity to do it. But it also shows the seriousness of that question, precisely because one here is in areas that can be significant by making changes that can be inherited. Thus, one can help not only to help one person's opportunities but also to change the entire human race.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1672	We have had a major and important case for treatment in the Stortinget on health care priorities, and now we also have to wait for a matter of priority in the municipal health service. I feel that it has our great cross-political outreach on priority criteria. I experience today that the Storting jumps over this important principle. One introduces new treatment rights in the healthcare system without having had the kind of treatment needed to find out if this is actually something we're going to spend on, i.e. it gives a health benefit at the other end. In particular, that is the proposal for early ultrasound, but also the proposal to grant a right to foetal diagnostics to all healthy pregnant women. I want to ask the Council of State how he will now deal with these new proposals, which, in my view, are contrary to the priority criteria that the Council of State has to adhere to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1681	I believe the representative is quite right in his description of this. We've also seen that those who work on it have spoken out. One can think very quickly in Stortinget that when you talk about resources, it's about money, but what's the scarce resource in this area is professionals who have this kind of competence. I see that the majority also say that much of this is going to be done under the control of private institutions, and we are then involved in creating a significant market for it. And these are parties that usually give a lot of warning against the risk of the kind of skills that we actually have very little of in Norway being very attractive to private health care. There's also a risk with the model that the majority of people here have agreed to. I have to see what the Storting decides today, and then this has to be followed up. But as I have said, also in my post: these are proposals that are not investigated. We don't know the consequences of that, and it'll take a considerable amount of work to do it. I realized that the Workers' Party's representative also underlined this in the reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1690	In Bergen's Official Journal we got some insight into what this will have consequences for the Women's Clinic. It said that it would require 5,000 new ultrasound examinations, a little over 100 every day, 6 new medical settings and 4 new ultrasound machines, plus that it was found that learning a midwife and giving her further training using ultrasound would take one year. Then we know that we have had a lot of debates about staffing in the maternity clinics, about maternity care and about missing follow-up services, and that this requires midwives, both in hospitals and in municipalities. This is the case, for example, with regard to: must be introduced from New Year or within a reasonable period of time, I cannot help but understand that it will affect the health of other women in birth and maternity and before other female diseases. Is this what the Council of State thinks is a real danger to this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1699	That's it, and what's also a little bit challenging, is that it's a little bit unclear in the vote what the majority really means in this area. Because if you think that it should be like a maybe really should be taken into account, namely that foetal diagnostics should be offered to all pregnant women, it will require the resources on which the representative was involved. Then you will have to have highly qualified professionals to provide that type of guidance both before the test is given, so that you know what you can get an answer to, and possibly also when the answer comes. If the majority believes that this should really only be given as today, in such a way that one can buy early ultrasound in the private market, which is not foetal diagnostics, some of the arguments for this fall away, because then this is not something that creates security and predictability. Then this is something that has a completely different purpose. And one will not be able to create security and predictability without giving good guidance both in the front edge and in the back of this type of test for the pregnant. Otherwise, this could lead to more uncertainty and risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1706	It has been said several times: the majority proposal is that it should be public early ultrasound. It's in the case. But another case is the procedure. It was a majority at Stortinget in 2018. We tried to send a proposal to the government to get a case afterwards about assisted fertilization to lonely. But the government has not followed up the majority decision. They have not sent a proposition to Stortinget. Then it's very difficult for the majority to get a hearing and talk about using the usual ways to change the law. Can the Council of State understand that the Storting cannot send a decision of request to the government because the government has not followed up the majority decision of the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1714	First of all, public and private. I feel that the majority are very clear that they believe that private should offer the NIPT test, and one also wants to set up a separate system to authorise private individuals to offer this test. This is a test that is currently used in foetal diagnostics. So let's see what the representative's talking about. Then there is reason to remember that there was a majority government that promoted this bill that is now being dealt with in the Storting. It was promoted by a government where there had also been negotiations between the government parties in the Grand Duchy to clarify what it was majority for. So one of the government parties chose to leave the government, and so this situation arose. The vast majority of the questions adopted today have been thoroughly investigated. But what is the challenge is that there are some issues that are not thoroughly addressed, even in the run-up to the paper, on which the majority nevertheless chooses to go straight today, and requires implementation. You should've figured it out there in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1723	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1728	The Biotechnology Act regulates very important aspects of biomedical research and development, with an enormous impact on many people. Good legislation in this field should balance important ethical considerations and the right of the population to good and safe healthcare. It may appear to be a dilemma and a demanding balance, but historically this balance has proved to be something the world has solved in a good way. We are living today with safe medical advances that few would have been ahead of us. For the Workers' Party, the opportunity to help and treat has been a leading factor in our approach to the Biotechnology Act. It's our ethical obligation. After years of public debate, in fact, a large majority in Stortinget adopted a number of changes in the spring of 2018, but then the Christian People's Party was allowed to stop everything. Prime Minister Solberg has given all power to these questions to the Christian People's Party and Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and his 4.2 pst. by the voters. Ropstad has announced that the Christian People's Party will vote in line with its conscience on these issues. That conscience is apparently much more valuable than the conscience of the vast majority of the parties on the Storting and their voters. The working party enters too early ultrasound after clear advice from the country's foetal medical profession, which has worked for this long time. They can now use new methods to treat a number of disorders and conditions in Mother's life only early enough to be discovered. Norwegian obstetrics have a proud tradition of standing on the side of the fetus and helping the very smallest patients. The development of biomedicine has turned in the direction that we want to help people to live as good a life as possible based on their natural assumptions. The third sustainability objective of the UN is good health and quality of life for all. For people with heritable serious and fatal diseases, there has been significant new hope, new opportunities for treatment and a chance to bring forth their own children without fear of passing on the serious diseases with new suffering and short lives. By applying these methods, we can prevent a lot of pain. Therefore, we also want to give hope to and help them with the rare and heavy diagnosis of where experimental treatment and genetic methods have been safely introduced is the only treatment option. The question of biotechnology is rarely black and white, but these changes are in no way premature and have definitely been the subject of public debate in advance. I am pleased that the Workers' Party is now helping to move the law in the right direction and provide better help to involuntary childless persons and families with hereditary serious illness. When the Biotechnology Act was adopted in 2003, Stortinget decided that the law should be evaluated after five years of practice. It was supposed to go all 17 years. The right-wing government delivered the notification of biotechnology in June 2017, i.e. during the previous majorisation period. At the time, there was a much broader majority for most of the changes that the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV present in the setting today. But today we meet with glass-plastics and count each voice. The working party is pleased that we are now passing some milestones, and we are also not familiar with the description that these are very radical changes. After voting today, which we are all excited about, Norway will be more similar to the countries we naturally compare with, which have the same ethical standards as us, and with which we cooperate through our common healthcare. For us it's good. Comparing with other countries is what we often say in negative order, but our attitude is that the Nordic model of society has combined new methods with good ethical reflection at each and every crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1749	Well, technology gives us a lot of opportunities. Technological advances enable us to provide people with better treatment than before and to detect new diseases. When the proposition underpinning the discussion today was promoted, it was the biggest change in the Biotechnology Act since 2004. It was put on the table a significant modernisation of the legislation after many years of standstill under the red-green government. I am proud that with the Right in government we have got to what Stoltenberg could not then, among other things. Jonas Gahr Støre was Minister of Health, namely a modernisation of the Biotechnology Act, after a thorough process with proper processors. It will contribute to better patient treatment, more research and good health care for more people. Overall, government parties and the Advance Party agree on 22 proposals that also modernise the use of biotechnology in healthcare. It is now opened to remove the lower age limit for assisted fertilisation. Such legislation has been in place today, in practice, it is necessary to have reached the age of 25 in order to have assisted fertilisation. That means that young couples who want to get pregnant, but need assistance, no longer have to wait until they reach the age of 25. We also make important changes that simplify the rules for biotechnology research, simplify and clean up the rules for gene therapy, and use gene therapy in the treatment of diseases other than those considered to be serious. Genotherapy should also be assessed in accordance with the criteria applicable to other medical treatments. It also makes it easier to store eggs and ovaries on a medical basis. While previously only unfertilised eggs or ovaries were allowed to be stored because of the risk of loss of fertility due to medical treatment, the Right now also ensures that women with medical conditions that may lead to early infertility are allowed to store their eggs. I see no good reason for us to distinguish between a young woman who is at risk of losing fertility due to ovarian hernia, and one who is at risk of losing fertility due to early menopause. They should be treated the same way, and we're now sure of that. On the other hand, I believe that it should not be facilitated for the storage of eggs or ovaries without any medical justification. We get older and older before we have children. The possibility of storing unfertilised eggs without a medical reason could lead to pressure for young women to postpone their pregnancy. In the world, we also see examples of employers paying for the freezing of eggs. Pregnancy can become more of a choice for women to postpone, must adapt to society around them, and be postponed and re-prioritised, with the medical risk it may have. I started the article by saying that technology gives us enormous opportunities. That doesn't mean that we're going to let technology steer freely without ethical considerations or political priorities. It is fully possible to give absolutely all foetal diagnostics, but it is also about priority. It's about moving resources from a pressed health service that treats sick people to treating healthy people. We are already using e.g. today. NIPT for those who are at risk of pregnancy. In the years that are coming, we're going to get even more advanced medicine. Several people are going to need treatment, and we also need to give priority to who we are going to help. The knowledge centre has said that early ultrasound for all women has no health benefits. Such a proposal will also require more than a thousand studies than are being carried out today. So it's not that easy to say that just giving more money, you solve that problem, because this also has a capacity side. We have a shortage of health professionals in Norway. It is a challenge that the Right also addresses and that we are going to contribute to solving, but if we are to solve the capacity problems, health services should not be required to carry out more tasks, which also have no health benefits. I am pleased that, with the government's proposals today, we are bringing about important changes in the biotechnology law that provide us with better treatment and research in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1772	I would like to thank the broad majority who are on a number of points in this important update of the law. It is a knowledge society that Norway deserves that we can update promises that we can be in line with knowledge, that we can provide people with treatment and security, in line with what is available. Then I would like to thank the majority and, perhaps, in particular, the rapporteur for a very thorough handling in exceptional circumstances, and I would like to start by saying a little about the unusual. For now it is pointed out by the government parties that it is unusual for a majority, other than the government, to make the decisions they make. I think the representative Moflag said it very well in the beginning, that Stortinget has been responsible and has taken the responsibility that was necessary to carry out the majority's will. The point is that this procedure could have been very common if it had reflected what is the majority of the house, the majority that the voters gave to the Stortning after the 2018 elections. This is not a new issue that the three majority parties have been working on in the last few months. The Labour Party went to the elections on this, we've been working on it for several years, and we could, of course, have had other types of lights and investigations – if the majority that's here in the house had shown up in the usual way. For us, it is essential that the welfare state is there when you need it, for everyone, and especially for vulnerable women, in this case, but I also want to say families and men. For some people, all we're talking about today, available, within reach, because they can afford it. They can go to private, they can go abroad. We correct that injustice, and we make this available in line with what are values in our welfare community. I believe that securing women throughout the country the right to early ultrasound with blood tests is a great step forward. It is a progress that is now being tried to reduce by saying that we do not have the capacity to do so, that it is not necessary and that it cannot be prioritised. There is a technical debate on this, and many heavy professionals say that this is a progress and important. We know that 70 pst. early ultrasound is used by women in major cities. This should be an offer to all women, made by professionals with the right skills. It can reveal potential dangers for mother and child, and it is of course very central to discovering this early in pregnancy, so that families can make informed choices. So I've heard that this is a choice of conscience, and especially those who are opposed to today's majority say you have to be able to vote in line with your conscience. I would say for my own part that when I am going to vote on this matter, it is in line with my conscience. It is a matter of conscience to make knowledge available and make it available in a way that reaches everyone. And what may have made the greatest impression on me in the play on this matter is all the letters and enquiries we've received, especially from women who tell us about the strain they've had on today's situation, where they know that there are methods and knowledge available, but that's not made available to them. The fundamental question here is that the Workers' Party believes that it is the woman and the family themselves that have the best basis for making decisions, that when there is knowledge available, an informed society such as ours should make that knowledge available, and that there is an enormous responsibility on decision-makers that says that this knowledge – which can cure, which can provide opportunities for a life that is about to come – should be avoided for those who are most affected. That's not the way we want to go. We believe that we have the right to that knowledge and that it must benefit people. I also hear another argument from this pulpit that what we're doing now is opening up to a sorting society. I will take a strong distance from it. Our society will have room for everyone — in the diversity we are in Norway — and also for those who live with listening and suffering to be cared for, supported and helped. We want a voice society with space for everyone. But we don't do that by holding back information for pregnant women. We do this by giving parents good guidance through pregnancy, making sure that they do the job, and by setting up with the help they need through a parent that can take a lot of money. There is no monopoly on conscience on these issues. This matter is a matter of conscience for the Workers' Party. It's about values, about solidarity and community, and a community that helps women and families get pregnant, information about pregnancy and safe follow-up in a good health care for everyone. Therefore, the amendments to the Biotechnology Act have been an important issue for the Workers' Party for a long time. We went to the elections, and I am proud that today we can contribute to the implementation of this in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1793	I would also like to start by thanking the case manager, who during very special times has done a good job together with a number in Stortinget. One of seven couples in Norway is involuntarily childless. The Prime Minister is asking us to make more kids. The working party has been fighting for several years for a biotechnology that is more in line with the time we live in, which is supported by a wide range of disciplines. I thought about this thing last night when I sang «Anne's chair» for my daughter when she was going to lie down. Fortunately, many involuntary childless people in Norway achieve the great joy of having children. There are good odds in Norway, although not all succeed. We have good fertility clinics in Norway, strong trade unions, forward-looking research and good arrangements. Today it's getting better. Couples with their infertility have been able to help with sperm donation for 90 years. It should just be missing that we don't make sure that infertile women can get the same help. The working party thinks it's high time to allow egg donation in Norway. This matter has been debated, and those who now think that there is no room for reflection and time, have this quite clearly as a substitute argument. Today, the majority also have a collective professional environment in their backs – none of this is a mecca in a back room. On the contrary, the professional expertise has been well involved – so well that Øyvind Nytun, who is superior to the fertility section at St. Olav's hospital, saw himself satisfied with the parties behind the proposals today, in a chronicle that was recently printed in the VG under the title "Give us new biotechnology laws now!" The majority in the hall here today is also larger than we're going to see in the voting. I would like to know that today we could voice the opinion of our party, and that is what our conscience says. Une Bastholm is quite right – a feeling a little like a fungus when you're pregnant. I've taken early ultrasound. I have taken more – not to look for something special, but I needed to be safe in my pregnancy. To me, it was actually hard to believe that there was life in my stomach. Because it's hard to get there. I will admit that I was also afraid and worried. And it's not very favorable early in a pregnancy. There is a lot of good health in security, which I think is seriously underestimated by more people in the debate today. That's 70 pst. which takes early ultrasound in the cities. Here it is available, but it costs. I think it's unfair that we should not give the same offer, the same access to information, to those who come from where I come from, which we give to those who come from this city. So I also think there's a point that the differences between people in Norway have to go down, even in this case. Knowledge is not dangerous. Moral index fingers seemed to me to keep us to ourselves. We cannot seriously deny women knowledge of their pregnancy. For many, it is important to have health safety, see the embryo, have the possibility of better medical follow-up if an early ultrasound is obtained instead of waiting until week 18. Biotechnology laws are over-modern for modernisation. For over 15 years, I and many others in the Labour Party have been actively involved in this debate, and today it seems that we can have multiple for important changes that will mean a lot too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1814	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1819	I want to talk about the sorting society, the Christian People's Party sort society with sorting the value of opinions. At the latest in the Fädrelandsvenn today, the Christian People's Party's Grand Representative, Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius, uses the term'sorting society' to describe the changes proposed by the Workers' Party, SV and the Progress Party in this matter. I will start in 2005, when both I and today's Christian People's Party leader, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, were youth candidates in East-Agder for the grand election. Then Ropstad took the front page of the Agderpost with the words «It is unchristian to vote socialist». He warned there Christians against voting on the Workers' Party and other socialist parties. Ruppstad had ten points to justify why he could not understand how Christian voters could vote red, which I had to debate with him. In addition to cutting support for private schools and building gas power plants, biotechnology was one of his reasons. At the same time, the so-called Mehmet case – about a little boy with a life-threatening blood disease that could be saved if his parents got a healthy sibling that he could get stem cells off. I respect the fact that the Christian People's Party has a different view on the issue of biotechnology, but I do not accept that my view is ethically inferior because I have reached a different conclusion. On Facebook, the Christian People's Party representative, Gleditsch Lossius, recently wrote that the liberalisation of biotechnology that the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, in a irresponsible way, will push through, only contribute to a colder and poorer society without room for all. I can guarantee that none of the changes I am going to vote for today, I am voting in favour because I want or believe we get a colder society – on the contrary. I don't have any trouble seeing these are difficult balances. To be honest, in the case of assisted fertilization to lonely, I see clearly arguments against going in for it. I think most kids have an advantage of having two parents. This does not mean, however, that I do not believe that most of the kids live well with one parent, and that is why I am voting yes today. In the fatherland friend of 18 May, the parliamentary leader, Hans Fredrik Gruvan, called the proposal to allow egg donation ‘a serious infringement against children’. Does Gruvan really think that we, who are in favour of this amendment, have the starting point? I respect that the Count is against egg donation, but again: our moral compass is not necessarily destroyed because it does not show the same direction as the Christian People's Party. Why am I voting in favour of the proposed amendments today? I believe that the right to know for the vast majority of future parents will contribute to a security that will make them even more happy to be parents. I believe in equality – when sperm donation has been allowed for more than 90 years, I think it should be a matter of course that we now allow egg donation. I believe in possibilities for saving fetuses through early ultrasound, especially for twins that share mortar cake. I've been to my Sunday school, so have I. I understand why the Christian People's Party chooses to vote against the changes we are proposing today in the Biotechnology Act. But I don't accept that my opinions should be sorted out because someone has allowed themselves to label them as a colder society or a sort society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1836	Today we are debating a matter that has been assessed and debated for very many years. Today, we are adopting some very important and correct changes, changes that countries we compare with, have adopted a long time ago. That is why the Norwegians have left Norway on the run. Now we can offer better help and better follow-up in our own country. There's a lot of difference we're going to adopt today, and I choose not to go into any of this, as Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has well explained it, and there have also been a lot of good contributions to the debate in retrospect. I will therefore use my few minutes to reflect a little around the campaign that the Christian People's Party, the Human World and some other actors have run in the last few days. For days these people have been talking down and lugging at people with Down's syndrome. Their claim has been that anyone who wants early information about their pregnancy does this because they want to hunt down people and sort them out. In fact, the Christian people don't know what all pregnant women think, want and want. The Christian People's Party tells people with downs that most people don't want them. This I take a great distance from, and it makes me incredibly sad. The time I was going to have my first ultrasound, my husband and I had already made a decision. We had been supporting a little boy with Down's syndrome for a long time. Our knowledge made it clear that we had already decided to keep the baby if it turned out that it had Down's syndrome. I know that I am not alone in making such a decision in advance. The Christian People's Party is therefore wrong. There is a lot of power in knowledge and good time – have time to digest the news, have time to understand what this will mean for my child, for our lives. What opportunities we have, and what rights our child will have, are questions that our parents will have. But what will they find when they go home and Google Down's syndrome? Because that's what we humans do in a big way these days if we're wondering about something -- we Google. They will be read down by articles claiming that there is a search for downs in Norway, that the majority want to sort or clear them out, and that diversity is not desirable. The Labour Party has never used these words, SV has never used these words, and the Advance Party has never used these words. But the Christian People's Party has used these words over and over again. It is a great responsibility on the Christian People's Party these days. Where they thought they were working for their cause, a good thing, they have achieved the opposite, and it is simply sad. This is about knowledge and security, it's about respect for other people, and it's about saving lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1855	First, I want to say that I don't recognize myself in the description given by Kari Kjenaas Kjos by the Christian People's Party. I just want to have that said from this pulpit. Today, we are going to adopt the biggest changes in biotechnology laws in many years – the proposals of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party on record speed have developed a radical liberalisation of, and the loser who remains is the child. The child and the child's legal protection are hardly easy to understand. Preprocessed for the current Biotechnology Act underlines: «The woman who is to carry out and give birth to a child has such a close biological relationship with the child that she must also be the genetic mother of the child.» [[...]] If an allowed egg donation is made, this anchoring will be broken. Thus, suggestions for egg donation will imply that the state will facilitate the creation of far more children without knowing or knowing about their biological parents. The way a child becomes is not irrelevant. We assume a great responsibility as societies when we open up to ever-new ways of creating people. For this reason, the Christian People's Party wishes to be gentle in this matter. The proposal of the Labour Party, SV and the Progress Party is contrary to Article 7 of the UN Convention on the Rights of Children to Know and Care of Their Parents. Only when they are 15 years old, will they be allowed to know who really are their parents, according to the Progress Party, SV and the Workers' Party. Egg donation is not problematic for children only. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and SV want the State to pay the woman who donates eggs – we have heard 10 000 kroner for a donated egg. Such an arrangement will lead to a commercialisation, and we fear that allowing egg donation with state payment, as these parties are in favour, will help legitimize the national and international market with the purchase of eggs, donors and surrogate mothers. And not just that: how much is a kidney, a dose of semen, or a spinal cord cell? This will have consequences for the commercialization of the body of both mother and father. We who believe in a creation and that all human beings are created in God's image will not vote for this powerful liberalisation of the laws of biotechnology. And we've learned: it's often the best thing, and a little bit of love in the concept eyelash does wonders.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1875	I'm going to admit that it's not every day that you really feel like making a difference in the job as a staging representative. Often there are routine tasks, wrangling the parties between them, and often you can't manage, no matter which political side you belong to, to lift your eyes and take hold of the big issues. But sometimes Stortinget takes decisions that have a major impact on individuals and families. Sometimes the Storting makes brave decisions that change people's lives. Today is such a day. It's a happy day. Today, I hope and believe that the Storting says yes to both technological progress, egg donation and assisted fertilization for lonely. I respect that you have different views in a matter, and that there are sharp word changes, but someone is trying to turn the matter into something it is not. For example, when you have: claims that egg donation leads to a loss of awareness of the child’s origin, it is demonstrably wrong. It says in the setting we are dealing with today that the exact same legislation applies to egg donation as to semen donation. When you claim that you are yourself for a society with room for everyone, and at the same time insinuate that those who disagree in political matters mean something else, I think you cross a moral line. I'm for a society with space for everyone. I am for individuals, women, families to have the right to as much information as they can get, so that they can make wise, well-considered choices that suit them, for their family. There is no contradiction between these positions. Usually the Christian People's Party raises the freedom of choice of families high. On the other hand, when they are in danger of making choices the Christian People's Party does not like – so much for that freedom of choice. Early ultrasound and NIPT tests will provide many families with more and better information about their own health and about their own pregnancy. Like the representative Moflag, I received a touching e-mail from a lady this weekend. She writes about this freedom of choice: It's wrong to think that we want to know because any deviation from normal makes us want to take abortion. That's not true. But every woman and every couple have to consider what is required of them, and what they can do. Maybe they have a disabled child from before, maybe the doctor sees that the child will have a life in constant pain and depend on extensive help around the clock. There are as many situations as there are pregnancies, but don't believe in propaganda that some of us are taking it easy to assess whether it's right to abortion a sick child. Remember, in any case, it's our child that we've wanted and dreamed about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1897	The issue we are dealing with today is important, and on many points – most people – I really have no problem behind many of the proposals that are up for treatment. I think, for example: It should be clear that information is sought as early as possible in pregnancy — that a mother who may be aware of uncertainties about the health status of the foetus has the opportunity to obtain that information as early as possible — will, for me at least, be very difficult to oppose. Knowledge is always an advantage when faced with important life decisions. Then I think maybe we're into what's really about too many of those who are against the NIPT test or early ultrasound. It might be primarily about a veiled abortion debate. There's nothing I want to participate in. I think it's important to make sure that you get information as early as possible. In the case of assisted fertilization for loneliness, however, I am of a different opinion. It's about how to make it possible for a father to be present during his childhood. For me, it's about family policy, and if the Stortinge with its decision today almost says that it doesn't matter if Dad is present in his child's growth, I think we're making a cardinal mistake. We have quite good – not only very good, but very good – evidence of how important father is in growing up children, as a role model and as a father figure. It is in my opinion the best thing for the child that we leave that possibility present. You can't deny millions of years of evolution and biology and believe that it doesn't matter – and that as a state, like a dump, we send out a signal that dad isn't important. As far as egg donation is concerned, I believe that with the framework that the Progress Party has managed to achieve – and it is important, that we have to contribute 50 pst. of the genetic material itself – I don’t have a problem with it either. What matters to me, and I think that applies to a lot of people in the Advancement Party, is that we're not on the verge of facilitating surrogati. It is not a desirable development for the Progress Party. I am going to vote against the part that is about assisted fertilization to lonely, but otherwise I think this is a good law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1908	There is an important issue The Stortinget will take a decision today. For us in SV, it is not about the sorting society or about fathers being less important, as some representatives call for. That's what we think is a reduction in a matter that for us is about development, about women's right to decide over their own bodies, about creating lives, about saving lives and about the future of many – which right now is most uncertain. Today, we have a practice that makes it difficult for many to have children. We see that many people have to travel to other countries in order to have children and, in some cases, have to move to other countries in order to get better reproduction rights. Many of these feel almost like criminals here at home in Norway, just because they want to be parents. There is too little focus on the reason that many lonely women want to have children. It could be about several things. For some, it's disease; for others, it can be time pressure. Some want to be single parents, while others strongly want a partner to have children, but have not yet found it. One of the proposals we are considering today is that single people will be given the opportunity to receive assisted fertilisation. The Prime Minister is asking us to have more children. Someone's trying very hard to get it done. The ban on assisted fertilization for lonely creates a difference in people, and it is expensive and difficult for lonely to have children. We in SV have received a lot of feedback lately, and I'm going to read one of them: I'm in my 30s with cancer. When I learned that I was getting sick, I had egg withdrawals. Then they took out several well-functioning eggs, and fortunately I have good prognosis. I've started on cellular venom and I'm going to have regular cures in the future. Then I'm going to have several weeks of radiation. It gets tough for the body, and they ask me if I can have kids after that. I'm single, and I don't know if I find anyone I want to have children with. You have to have roommates for two years in order for that to happen. If there's a majority for singles to have assisted conception, I know that I also have an opportunity to become a parent. Thank you for giving me that opportunity. I'm very lucky that had well-functioning eggs. A lot of people don't. I hope that there will be an opportunity for egg donation for them. I also hope that you are encouraged to adopt for those who can. Many children need a home, but Norway does not have agreements with countries that want to adopt unanimously. Furthermore, I hope that you can check whether the fetus is alive early. It should also be checked how many fetuses there are, and whether they may have common morcoma. If you don't know, the fetus can die. It is also appropriate to check for serious and genetic diseases early in the foetus in order to provide adequate treatment. It's about too many people now. A good mother and a good father are good parents, even if they're alone. We are very many who have grown up with just one parent. My mother was probably a parent for two. The most important thing is that the kids have good caregivers around them, not how many they are in numbers. And it's not like that just because we're adopting this in the Storting, it's a guarantee that the parents stay together during the kids' growth. In many cases it may be better to grow up with one than with two.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1923	The cleaning staff at Stortinget make this seem like a pit stop in a Formula 1 race, and it is good that we take infection protection seriously in the Stortinget. There's one group in society that I have a great deal of respect for, and it's all-rounders: mom or dad doing the job for two, and he's doing it all by himself. Too many people may be demanding to get around nursing, changing diapers, delivering in kindergarten and everything else to do when you have kids, even when you're two about it. Those who make everyday life go up without a partner, do a job, and contribute in a way that shows great respect. But the fact that there are many amazing alemmas and aleine papers that are able to follow up their children in an admirable way is not the same as the state's helping more single people to have children. Because having one parent is more vulnerable to children than having two. It should not be the task of the State to facilitate the vulnerable situation of a child to grow up with only one parent. What if something happens to the one parent? You're allowed to want children, even if you don't have any children to bring. But in this debate, we as legislators and we as big people must raise our eyes. The debate is not primarily about the wishes and needs of grown people; it must be about the children and be based on them. We have to set our children's needs and their children's dishes first. With assisted conception for single people, not only does a child take away a father or a mother; one takes away a whole family tree. Many children who live with one parent because they have lost or have no contact with their one parent still have contact with aunts, uncles, cousins and cousins. It's an important security. If we allow assisted fertilization for single parents, the children that come with only one parent will also lose all of this. Adult people have many people who speak their language. Children often don't have the same thing. The size must be conscious of its responsibility, and the Storting must do what is beneficial to the children. When you choose the dishes for your children and the dishes for each other, you have to set them first. We should not allow assisted conception for singleness. It is about how far the state should go in order to meet its needs and wishes. But first of all, it's about children's rights and their growing-up conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1940	This winter and spring have reminded us how important our health is, and not least what good public health services we have in Norway. We have also seen the responsibility that individual citizens have taken for their own and others' health over the past few weeks. Now we're sitting here, with the glass-plastic between us and the conscience in the trap. The Christian People's Party has gone to the unusual step of demanding attendance for all, hoping to appeal to the conscience of some. It is difficult for me both to respect and to accept that freedom of conscience will only apply to the Christian People's Party's opinions. After I went a round with my own conscience in the struggle of the election between loyalty to a government platform and my own and Left's conviction, I have chosen to notify that I am voting for the changes in the Biotechnology Act today. Of course, loyalty to the government platform weighs heavily, but it also makes the fact that I am going to be able to live with these decisions that are taken here today, without going on my own integrity and conscience. The left is a radical party. We've shown our way through history on many difficult questions. In the case of egg donation, I believe that the time is overdue to allow this in Norway. This is also a gender equality fight – donation for both men and women. I also believe that lone and lesbians will be given the opportunity to assist in conception. If you do not have healthy eggs yourself, you should be able to allow there to be no genetic link between the children and the parents, just like for adopted and unborn children. A mother with donated eggs who gives birth to a child may be as attached to this child as if the child had the same genes. All of these offers I believe are offers we should offer within the Public Health Service in Norway. There are a lot of people today leaving Norway to get this offer. They come back with weaker rights and have poor follow-up in the health care system. There's no reason. We also see that many people make conscious choices about this already today and take advantage of the offer that exists in other countries. It will strengthen the Norwegian health system to have it offered within the service rather than outside the country. Finally, because there are some different opinions in this Chamber today, I would like to make an explanation of vote on the Committee's position XIII, which concerns NIPT. I'm not voting for that. It is currently approved for all persons entitled to foetal diagnostics. A new diagnostic method for all pregnant women who have not been diagnosed, I am not voting in favour of urgency here today. We can take the time to figure it out. It's about both economics and competence, and it's also about capacity. We can take a little bit better time on that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1951	Two weeks ago, we were standing here discussing whether the quota notification on the regulation of fisheries had been properly investigated. Today, we are discussing major changes related to children's rights and biotechnology without much of it being specifically investigated, and without it looking to worry about the Workers' Party, SV and the Progress Party at all. Several claim that there are high health gains in the introduction of early ultrasound to all, but there are no reviews that warrant it. In 2019, we decided that when new methods of diagnosis and treatment are to be used in healthcare, new methods and benefits, i.e. health benefits, severity and resource use, should be considered. It is proposed to introduce a screening study of approx. 60,000 healthy pregnant women per year. It is problematic that it should be introduced without the adoption of the body of the Stortinget itself, to assess such studies and to make its assessment of the offer. In particular, I notice that reference is made to the fact that foetal medicine can treat serious conditions in Mother's life. There is sufficient justification to justify the introduction of early ultrasound. There are successful individual cases, but there is a great lack of scientific evidence that answers in sum to questions such as: How many pregnant women and foetuses can be shown to have current diagnosis at early ultrasound? How many of these would anyway be diagnosed by routine ultrasound during the gestational week 18? What treatment can be given to pregnant and unborn children by early ultrasound diagnosis? What gains will such treatment lead to? How can these gains be quantified by increasing survival, functional level and quality of life? These are questions we need answers to when it is proposed to introduce a routine offer to so many healthy people without following the normal procedures for introducing new diagnostic and treatment methods. Finally, some more philosophical considerations around the ethical aspects of the decisions the Storting is going to make today. Is the question of what is true and right, something relative that is at all times defined by 169 large-scale representatives in this room? Is it right to open up early ultrasounds and blood samples of all pregnant women in order to find and sort away unborn children who are not quite like the rest of us, just because 85 of the 169 votes in favour, so that it is allowed? Or is there eternal truth about man's inviolable value from conception to natural death, which stands still, despite the fact that the majority's opinions in Parliament are being changed over time? I am proud to belong to a party that builds its policy on a belief that every human being is created in God's image and surrounded by his love. For my part, it obligates the unconditional awe of human life and the voiceless unborn baby in Mother’s belly. That is why, today, I am voting against the radical proposals promoted by the Workers' Party, the SV and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1982	We can send people to the moon today. Today, we can operate in the heart that is made in the laboratory. It is time for women to be given sufficient and adequate information when they are going to be mothers. When the news of the changes and the conciliation came in May, the enquiries to Klinik Hausken in Haugesund did not delay. Many people make contact – extremely many – especially one group: single. Let's stay a little bit. The majority refer to this group as a single group in today's debate. I choose to point that out, because they're not so lonely, but they're single. For me, the fact that they can have the possibility of assisted fertilisation in Norway in a safe and good way is a great motivation to vote for the changes we are making today. Providing early ultrasound and NIPT testing is about ensuring pregnancy. There's female health and good foster care in a cheek egg. I'm incredibly sorry when the Christian People's Party makes this all about something else, wrote to me yesterday by Synnove Bårdsen Lindanger. She's the mother of an amazing boy with Down's syndrome. Synnoses, like me, are concerned that we should provide mother and parents with good and preliminary information on what might be waiting for them. We're going to do that as early as possible. It's mother and parents who should be able to make an important decision for the rest of their lives, and not us politicians. I respect that there are different views in this Chamber today. But I want to point out one last thing, and that's that I don't know anyone who has chosen with a light heart a child with different weaknesses. I know several people who have had children with a developmental disability, but who would like to be prepared for it. We must facilitate this when the government does not want to, because this debate is also about it. Good information and safe pregnancy are important, and I am pleased that there is a different majority than the one the government is promoting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e1993	I have deep respect for the fact that there are different views in this matter. The party of progress is positive about using new technology when it benefits people, but in all such cases there are ethical dilemmas too. Many today live longer and have better lives, including: thanks to developments in biotechnology. While the party favours the opportunities offered by research and the use of biotechnology, it must, of course, be both medically and ethically sound. Many of you may remember Mehmet, the little boy who was born with a hereditary blood disease. Mehmet could get well if he got bone marrow from an unborn brother or sister without his illness. John Alvheim took the fight for Mehmet. The progress party won and was softened by the Biotechnology Act in 2004 so that Mehmet could be treated. Research and technology have evolved enormously since 2004, and we believe that the time again is ripe for the modernisation of the Biotechnology Act. Now we can offer new treatment or provide earlier and better information to families, and then the law must also follow developments. Information and knowledge provide security for the choices to be made by each family. If the family learns that children they have on their way, have a serious illness or will need more follow-up, it is good, especially for those who choose to keep the child. This allows you to prepare for the new life with a child who has other needs. When we were in government, we started working on an equilateral reform. It was about making everyday life easier for families who are waiting or having children who need complex services. A number of these families today feel that society is not setting up enough, and many are struggling in public bureaucracy. By being able to take early ultrasounds rather than late ultrasounds, you can get important information earlier. Health conditions requiring close follow-up or treatment of both mother and child may be detected early, already in the mother’s stomach. New technologies may also help to avoid unnecessary use of the current risk-filled embryonic water test. The NIPT test is completely risk-free, and one can test for the same thing as in the case of a uterine test, but without sticking a needle in the uterus to extract foetal water. The use of NIPT allows early detection of conditions requiring additional follow-up, without putting the foetus in unnecessary danger. Good information early on is good for families, and new technology makes it possible. Our starting point is that children are better off growing up with two good parents, preferably in a familiar family form. But we also want more children to be born. The changes we are making now are well impacted by genetic association, aptitude assessment, child care certificates, etc., which means that we are now getting a stricter law than country it is natural to compare with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2010	The proposal for amendments to the Biotechnology Act has been promoted by the government following a thorough evaluation and extensive consultation among its professional experts. These changes represent the greatest modernisation of the Biotechnology Act since 2004. The new law will provide better treatment for patients and allow professionals to develop better treatment methods. The big deal makes a lot of decisions that mean a lot to people. Common to the vast majority of these cases is that they are investigated, and those affected are heard – they are professional environments, organisations or businesses. It is an important safety valve, and now we adopt a law that regulates life and death, without the safety valve being used in full. Medical technology is boundless. It evolves rapidly and gives us enormous opportunities to treat cancer, cardiovascular diseases and other diseases. It is also boundless when it comes to our DNA, to the beginning of life and the end of life. That's why we sometimes have to set limits on technology. Right will provide patients with better treatment, and we will give professionals the opportunity to develop better treatment methods. Government proposals for modernisation open up more research, better patient treatment and more efficient personalised medicine. At the end of the work on the law, the Labour Party, SV and the Progress Party have agreed to propose new changes, without having been put to the same hearings or having received the debates on other major issues in the Committee. Among the changes the Progress Party, SV and the Workers' Party work for is to open up for so-called mitochondria donation. This will make the child actually get DNA from more than two people. There is insufficient knowledge today on the long-term impact this can have on children. Mitochondria donation can cause genetic changes in germ cells and is a scientific experiment with humanity. In the ultimate sense, it is possible to change human genetic material without knowing the consequences. The working party and SV will allow for so-called embryo donation and double donation. This means that you can get both egg donation and sperm donation at the same time. This means that the children that are created in this way have no genetic connection with their parents. It is regrettable that these legislative proposals can be adopted without consultation and without public debate. The Biotechnology Council stresses that they are critical until the short term Progress Party, SV and the Workers' Party have set up, and says themselves that they have felt pressured to deal with these matters urgently.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2025	There are many areas of Norway’s welfare where social inequalities in health are noticeable. For some services it is more important than others. A great many of us are privileged and have greater choice and ability to buy services. But it's not like that for the majority. For many, and especially women, the purchase of healthcare is not an option. The economic situation of part-time employees, too low wages, makes this an economic choice, not an ethical choice. When you find that you're pregnant, it's a very special feeling. For many, it is the happiest day of their lives. For some come panic crawling, and some women become filled with grief. No matter what the reaction is, all these women, most often in association with their partners, want the choice of their future to be theirs and theirs alone. Today all offers from the public about ultrasonics between 17 and 19 weeks. Then you've already known the first signs of life, and the outside world is no longer in doubt that you're pregnant. After 15 weeks, fetuses develop differently, including: there's a difference in the growth. That's why after this, it's more difficult to set the right deadline. Under this ultrasound, most people will be told that the fetus is fine, and everything looks fine. But for some, the world is going down. Going through an abortion after week 17 is a birth. This is a huge impression for the woman, both physically and mentally. And this could have been avoided. If all women had been offered early ultrasound, for which this amendment opens, an abortion early in pregnancy would lead to much less stress. Never believe that an abortion, for whatever reason, doesn't set a trace. It does. But the decision is often easier to carry. When a person makes a choice for an unborn fetus, he does not take human dignity from a child who is born. And who is going to judge a woman's right to determine her own life? Early ultrasound must be a right all women should have, wherever she comes from, what she earns, or what decision she makes. There's equality in health, and we're going to have that in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2038	For approx. A year ago, we introduced a law that took some of our freedom from women. To dissuade the determination of one's own life and body made that day a sad day. Now we're left here one year later. In the committee, a new majority has gathered, and together, we can contribute to once again giving women the freedom to decide on their own bodies. The day of one year ago and today shows that the women's struggle must be fought every day. Those who believe that freedom is something we've been given must now wake up. This year it is 50 years since the proposal of self-determined abortion saw the day's light in Grethe Irvoll's kitchen in a local team meeting in Ammerud's working party team. Thanks to those who went ahead and fought through the proposal at the National Labour Party meeting already in 1969. The government has weakened women’s rights and reduced the steps they have taken in the wrong direction – steps that have weakened the fight for women’s rights. Today we're making a change. We say yes to equality between infertile men and women. We say yes to cancel out social and geographic differences. We say yes to more security and knowledge. And we say no to shame for more knowledge and the right to determine your own body.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2050	The best thing for a child is enough to grow up in a family of two parents who are happy in each other and who are happy in the child. Life, however, takes a little different directions, and I want to bring in a story about a woman I've kept close in touch with the last year – Camilla. Camilla has lost love in her life. Camilla and Kurt were happily married for a long time and had the future ahead of them. They wanted children. Unfortunately, Kurt was diagnosed with severe cancer. Fearing what the cancer could do with Kurt's fertility, the couple decided that Kurt would freeze down a sperm test in order to increase the likelihood that the two could have a child together when Kurt was well. Unfortunately Kurt never recovered. He lost the fight against cancer. In grief still Camilla's eye a hope, for Kurt had been willaging that seed sample to Camilla, so that she could complete the process of carrying out the couple's child. She had a strong wish for that, but the law would prove to be in the way of that. The situation of Camilla was long locked up, and she became a throwing ball in the system. The hospital could not legally assist either with assisted fertilization or deliver the semen sample to Camilla so that she could travel to Denmark to get assisted fertilization. Norwegian health services are not allowed to assist Norwegian citizens to break Norwegian law, and assisted conception for lonely is prohibited. So it's happened to Camilla and her ability to bring the child forward to her husband. The child would grow up with a large family of uncles, aunts, two sets of grandparents and a father, who did not really get the opportunity to be physically present, but who would still be a large part of the child's life. The progress party proposes to clean up this legislation and let Camilla bring her child forward. The right and left have announced that they will support this, but it requires that assisted fertilization for solitude is allowed, and I hope that the Storting today does just that. This case has made it easier for me to support the lonely to get assisted conception, and make sure that Camilla gets her greatest dream of bringing the child forward with a husband, whom she unfortunately has lost in the fight against cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2061	I hope the Stortinge today thinks carefully about whether you really want to introduce the offer of foetal diagnostics to all pregnant women. The tests proposed are targeted to identify Down's syndrome and other hereditary conditions, and introduces the Storting this, it will send a strong and very sad signal that some human lives are worth more than others. The Christian People's Party is deeply concerned that the introduction of this kind of screening will lead us towards a society where parents know the pressure to choose away the children that are different. Yes, the Christian People's Party demands that, during this debate, the parties that are at the forefront of these proposals respond to how they deal with more voices in society – which are different themselves, or who have children who are – experience that this challenges their human dignity. Many of us know the story of Birgitte. Birgitte is the mother of a lovely little girl with Down's syndrome, and Birgitte can tell about a health care provider who took it as a matter of course that she was going to have an abortion, about doctors who asked her to google for information about Down's syndrome. So, both directly and indirectly, women who are told that the child has Down's syndrome, a pressure to choose abortion. In many cases, it is not known that these children actually have a meaningful, good life. Instead of leaving women alone with a difficult choice, we should give extra support to women who are waiting for children with extra needs. Introducing early ultrasound to all is to make the sting the opposite. The majority must assume that in Denmark and Iceland, where this has been a practice for a while, almost no children are born with Down’s syndrome anymore. We have to admit that a government offer will never be neutral. Today we can find chromosome defects, but with tomorrow's foetal diagnostics, we can find almost all diseases with genetic origin, and different properties. We in the Christian People's Party fear a society where, over time, more and more criteria can be set for being born. We want a society with space for everyone, not just the perfect and planned, but we are in danger of making it narrower and tighter if we allow this kind of extensive testing of the unborn life. The Christian People's Party believes that a society of ever fewer people with so-called developmental deviations is a poorer society. So let there be no doubt: introducing early ultrasound to everyone will be a dramatic step in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2076	I'm not a radical feminist. I can't recognize myself in many of the characteristics that have stalled in the last few days, and I have to say that I fully agree with the settlement that the representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos brought with him just this from the pulpit earlier today. I am a proud member of the Progress Party, who today, hopefully, is writing history in this Chamber. We are a liberalist party that assumes that people themselves are better able than politicians to decide what is best for themselves and theirs. We don't think guardianship is suitable for creating prosperity or happiness for individuals. Since every human being is unique and different, one Community solution cannot be found that suits everyone. We therefore want more individual freedom, and responsibility, for individuals. Freedom for individuals presupposes that individuals themselves take greater responsibility for themselves and their own actions, and our human view is based on a belief that individual humans have the ability to rule themselves and to take consequences of their own choices. In general, it is also important that individuals have a sense of personal responsibility for the actions they do, but that means that most people should have more opportunity to take care of themselves and their families with a minimum of state control and control. That's exactly what this case is about. That Christian People's Party should force women to bring forth children with serious illness, or that childless people should be denied help, is not what I associate with neighbourly love. In the last few days, you might say that the debate has gone into a women's hostile power game, and there's nothing I or the Progress Party want to be on. In the Advancement Party, it is obvious that women should have control of their own bodies, and for us it is important to create a safe and good framework for the family and – of course – the children, and therefore, when we now propose to allow egg donation, it is done under the same conditions as for sperm donation. Men who have had challenges with fertility have been able to use sperm donation for more than 90 years to fulfill the dream of establishing a family. Women who have had ovaries and thus become infertile, on their part, have not had the opportunity to get help to fulfill the dream of bringing forth the couple's child. There is no fundamental difference between sperm and egg donation, and I am pleased that today we say no to this discrimination on the basis of gender.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2089	The fact that the parties disagree on different positions is not new in Norwegian politics, but although we have our differences, there have been some common principles for how we get new laws, which have been applicable here to countries. We're investigating, we're sending it to the hearing, and we're involving the trade unions and other people who might want to think of something, before the decisions are taken. That there has been no consultation and investigation of several of these major ethical and professional issues, I find it problematic. Many open questions remain, and I would therefore like the majority to be more cautious until they knew more about the consequences of these proposals. To think that all of this is well enough investigated earlier is not correct. The Biotechnology Council has held two urgent meetings this spring in order to reach a decision on the proposals under discussion today. The proposed changes may have dramatic consequences in the long term. Nevertheless, the majority claims that we have sufficient knowledge – that all the proposals are well-founded. That's not right. The proposal to offer early ultrasound to all pregnant women is not established, it has not been heard. The proposal to offer NIPT tests to all pregnant women has also not been subject to a thorough consultation and mitochondrial donation has not been established. I understand that the majority are asking for good, balanced and neutral health care information when they now want to introduce this screening of all pregnant women, but you can ask the question: Why has the majority not recognised the need for this information before? Biotechnology opens up too much new knowledge, but also gives us more difficult ethical dilemmas and balances. We have the tradition of being especially vigilant when the laws we change will have the greatest impact on those who come after us. It is a kind of precautionary principle, and in such cases we should never be hasty – even now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2102	Biotechnology issues are often referred to as questions of conscience, and that is not so strange. These issues are not just about priorities in a budget, they are often rooted in strong opinions about what is ethically right in vulnerable issues. It's about what kind of help society should be able to give to a woman who so much wants children, it's about whether couples who love each other, and who want to have common children, will be able to get it through a donor if one of the parties is infertile, and it's about what kind of information we allow a mother to have about the child who grows in her own stomach – to mention something. I have a great deal of understanding that there are different conclusions to these questions, but I do not accept that this would be a gradation of the individual's morals. Nor is it automatic that, with a given conclusion on one side of these questions, the conscience choices you might have are somewhat stronger than those that fall to the opposite conclusion. For example, I can understand the fear of a sorting society by the Christian People's Party, but for my part it's just as much a matter of conscience to deny a pregnant woman information about the embryo she carries in her own stomach, information that will be crucial to what kind of life situation she can prepare for after birth. It also has nothing to do with any evaluation of the individual’s human dignity, regardless of the type of disease or developmental abnormalities that the foetus may have. I think it's very few, if any, who take it easy to end a pregnancy. It is also worth noting that there have been parents of people with developmental disabilities promoting in the public debate who have argued for liberalisation. I don't think they love their children any less than those who agree with the Christian People's Party, but their very experience may make them have an extra great understanding of the need for it to make an informed choice. So there's no contradiction between women's right to take an informed choice and a view of the equal value of all people. I believe it is a quite reasonable position that this type of case should be decided by the conscience of each representative and not by negotiations between the party blocks. But then this must be consistent. I am therefore going to follow the call from the Christian People's Party and vote according to my own conscience today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2113	There are many that are affected by the decisions we are making today. When SV votes in favour of a number of amendments to the Biotechnology Act, we do so because we believe that the changes will provide more security and information and ensure that that security applies to everyone, not only to those with wallets for that or good opportunities to find out in the system. For some it could also mean that the dream of having children can become reality. In SV we have discussed these matters for many years. We also have members who have a different view, and I have deep respect for that. We have led this debate in recognising that there are dilemmas about using technology in some of these areas, but also dilemmas about not being able to do so. And we have conducted the debate without ranking each other's ethical standards. That's the way it should be here today. No party may require monopoly to represent ethics in this debate. Our yes to early ultrasound is justified by health benefits and ensuring that everyone receives a similar offer, regardless of the size of the wallet. All pregnant women in Norway should have the same opportunity to receive information, and they should decide for themselves what kind of information they want. Our agreement is that solitude should be assisted in fertilization, and for altruistic egg donation, more people should be given the opportunity to have the wish for children fulfilled. A good father or mother is a good parent, even if it's alone with a child. Egg donation will give more women and couples the opportunity to have their own children, but for SV it has also been very important to ensure that egg donation cannot go at the expense of women’s control over their own bodies. There must be an ideal and voluntary action to donate eggs, and therefore we want to ensure that the egg donation compensation is not so high that it is a motivating factor in itself, while at the same time compensating the woman for the disadvantages it brings. Finally, the accusations of sorting, which often come up in these debates: it is not today that the Stortinget decides whether Norway should be a society with a place for people who are different. We decide that every time we decide what kind of rights and opportunities are available, for example. for people with disabilities. Think if just a little bit of the attention that the Biotechnology Act gets could have been devoted to these questions instead. Therefore, SV is once again promoting proposals today related to safety and a simpler everyday life for families with high care needs and on gender equality for people with disabilities, and it remains to be seen whether the government will give priority to this. I am sure that the modernisation of the law that is now coming is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2132	This is a very demanding debate. Modern development is good. It has taken us many steps in the right direction and made it possible for us to save lives that we couldn't save before, and that we can create lives there that maybe there couldn't be life before. But it also has difficult sides, because it contributes to the realization of very basic, natural things. This helps to technology reproduction, technology things that really are the most basic and natural human beings have, that there will be something we can control more. I think it's wrong, and it's too far to be able to design life and to create new ways to make people. When I hear this debate, I think it's very difficult, because it's hailing accusations from both sides to the other side that you're immoral, or that you don't have a conscience. I find it difficult to sit and listen to such a debate – where you are either for women's rights or against women's rights, and where you are either for life or for life. I think all the representatives here think that these are difficult and, in part, also personal issues, and that one must have respect for one another. If we don't manage to discuss ethically difficult issues in a tidy way, we're going to have a hard time in the years to come, because we're going to have more difficult debates than we are today. We are going to meet debates on genetic modification, cloning, surrogati, active death aid, and we have to be able to discuss it in a respectful way. My conscience tells me that it is right to vote against the liberalisation of the biotechnology law that is being done today, with one exception, and that is to allow the NIPT test, which I will vote for. I think it has been difficult to deal with such a large degree of liberalisation of the biotechnology law as quickly as it has been done. This has been discussed for many years, but the Biotechnology Council itself says that they think it has been difficult that things have gone so fast, and there are many things that have not been investigated. And when the majority can go in for example. mitochondria donation, which is a very controversial medical method, on the basis that is now, I think it says something about the treatment that has been. The center party, and I myself, oppose assisted fertilization. I don't think it's a government task to finance and relieve childlessness that is not medical, or that is inexplicable. We're going against egg donation. I believe there are several questions there that are ethically difficult and that are not well-lit at this time. I also believe that the question of early ultrasound is a misrepresentation. It is permitted and possible today, but there is no medically justified need for it to become a state task to finance for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2145	We leave behind weeks where children and young people have been kept at home from school and kindergarten. The Children’s Ombudsman has warned that the children have lost the most fundamental rights and that vulnerable children have suffered worse. We live at a time when child protection is in a dramatic situation, while employees are sent to home offices. At this time, the Minister for Children says that he works day and night so that Norwegian women do not have information about the life they have in their stomachs. He works day and night to ensure that involuntary childless people in Norway do not receive the same help as in the other Nordic countries. That's the priority. It is in this case the Christian People's Party has chosen to press the alarm button. In a way you can understand the Christian People's Party, because that's what they were going to get back when they chose to break their election vows and went to government with the Advance Party. The Prime Minister and the Right said that the Christian People's Party could be vetoed in any case concerning women's rights and biotechnology. The party that has historically opposed any progress would now be able to decide. Yes, Erna Solberg even added the abortion law on the table – only she was allowed to continue as Prime Minister. I am proud to be part of a party that has never had anything to give in to these questions, which says that women's health is not a negotiating card – in the same way as men's health and children's health. Why should we accept that women's health is seen as something completely different? That's how we've dealt with these questions. It's only when the moral index finger comes, and that's what the Storing says today no. We say that we will have the opportunity to donate eggs, because involuntary childless people should receive help in Norway and not be told that they can go abroad. We say that women and families should get the information that is available about the life that lives in the stomach. Today, many pregnant women are told on ultrasound that the child they've been looking forward to is no longer alive. That's what the government thinks they have to go halfway into pregnancy to get – unless they're willing to pay for it themselves. Then it suddenly becomes morally acceptable. In these important issues, policy has often taken the lead. And through struggle and mobilization, decisions have been put in place that have brought the population with them. I often think about how grateful we should be to all those who have gone before us – those who have been in tough fights. And women's right to health and the right to control their own bodies goes like a red thread through the history of the Workers' Party – from Fernanda Nissen and her work for home and midwife education to Grethe Irvoll's bench proposals on self-determined abortion, to the implementation of Gro Harlem Brundtland and Karin Stoltenberg and to the introduction of ultrasound by Tove Strand. We honor those who have gone before us, and we fight further. But this time it's different. Now we don't have to go ahead, because the people are already there. This is what they expect of us, and that is what we are doing today when, after the vote, we get to write a new chapter on Norwegian equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2168	Several have told different stories about people in different situations today. I want to tell you about my brother, Rune, who is mentally retarded. He rakes six feet above the ground, he's born with a chromosome less than what we call normal, and he has bad language. He's a social guy, and we celebrated his 50th birthday three years ago with music and dancing out in the little hours. It's just my brother and I in the nursing class, and in the growing up I could probably be both annoyed and tired of him, as a very common thing can be of his siblings. At the same time, I developed an extra gene to defend and look after my big brother and to explain what he meant when his language came short. I have several times known that he was a burden and a cost post for the municipality we grew up in. Actually for no reason, it wasn't supposed to be wrong, but resource-requiring users were still a budgetary issue. This is what I am afraid that parents can also know today. Luckily, I've known even more that the community is ringing around him and appreciates that he's in, because he's spreading joy and appreciates the little things in life, like being with the tanker, the bus or the bridge car for a walk, or getting to stand and sing on the stage with a microphone without sound at the alley party in Christmas. He dyes our society and looks at it to length after it's perfect a little bit in perspective. I'm kind of happy that he came to the world in 1967, because if we adopted what the plural says in this room today, it's not safe that my parents would have taken the strain it is and could be having a retarded child. These are difficult questions and choices, but we all have, regardless of what we vote today, a responsibility for more roughness, inclusion and organization, not exclusion and sorting, as we have said here. It will make our society poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2181	This is one day I have been looking forward to and working for, and I would like to thank in particular the representatives Moflag, Bruun-Gundersen and Wilkinson for the job they have done to get this case to port. Many have been waiting for this day. The offer of early ultrasound has been an important matter for me for a long time, and especially after I had a child myself. A year and a half ago, I was in the media myself and told them that I had taken early ultrasound — private — as a large majority of pregnant women do in Norway, and especially in cities. The representative Toppe said earlier in the debate that women today get early ultrasound in the public on the indication, for example. in case of anxiety in pregnant women. Well, I got referral from my supervisor, and it was about more than anxiety. I got no from Ullevål anyway, and then the road became short to the private, but if I had lived in Finnmark, where I came from, I would not have the same opportunities. We must not pretend that the offer is better than what it is. Early ultrasound and the NIPT test are major advances in the follow-up to pregnancy. It's about giving the pregnant woman knowledge, security and follow-up. It's about health and avoiding senaborts, because we know that it gives you the opportunity to provide real health care, and we know that it gives you the opportunity to avoid almost half a pregnancy before it ends, if you have a serious illness or a non-viable fetus. I believe that it is a totally unreasonable burden to put on the woman, which can and should be avoided. I want more resources for pregnancy follow-up, and today's decisions on early ultrasound and NIPT just assume that. Then I hear several people say that this does not have health care resources. But then we have to take care of it, because I am quite sorry that it is female health and the follow-up that it is to be aged with. It happens often. Now, to be honest, it's our turn. Sometimes we have to take on ourselves in here that reality is the way it is. Every year, many women travel abroad to become pregnant, for egg donation is permitted in almost all countries in Europe, and assisted fertilisation of solitude is permitted in the countries around us. But in Norway these women have to go abroad and feel criminal because they so deeply want to have children. We want more people in Norway to have children. The birth rate is falling. Then you have these ladies who want a child, and nothing is better than a child who is wanted, and who gets love. I can't believe it would be better to hope that a woman becomes in a relationship with a man who is not kind. And as women have always had experience, there is never any guarantee that the man, the father, will be. So let's make sure that the children who get love and are wanted have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2197	Today, and during the weeks that have been, we have heard many stories and stories from many who have stood out with the most personal things they might be able to tell. This is a serious and demanding matter, but it is an incredibly important matter. Maybe it's about the most important progress of the decade. It's about women's health, it's about using a new technology, it's about women and families being able to make their own choices, which are right for their families, based on knowledge that's available. It's also about getting knowledge to prepare. It's about security. It is also about listening to professional advice. Families and being parents – there is a great variety of people who are good parents, who are one, who are two, who are different. Fortunately, the A4 family is not as it once was. It's a time I don't want to go back to. Because there's no recipe for being a good family. It's about loving your children and taking responsibility. That should be the standard in 2020, and then the policy should follow. Hopefully, the size takes responsibility now where the government has failed until those degrees. It's about letting women get the necessary information about their own bodies, about their own pregnancy. Egg donation is about women being able to do what men have done for 90 years: it is also about taking seriously the infertility of women in the same way that men have taken into account infertility. It is about Norway taking a step into the future. There's a large majority in this hall to do that. There's a large majority in society, and I hope it will turn out. Then I have to say, to the Christian People's Party's talk from this pulpit about the sorting society, about human dignity, about space for everyone, about next love: it just becomes words, but it becomes very serious words. For is there space within the narrow definition of parents, of families, of what is morally correct, A4 correct? It's about the values and program of the Christian People's Party. And history has shown that there has been a lot of condemnation. There's been a lot of shame, and that's what you keep going on: stamping people. I think it's totally unacceptable. And about conscience: you can't say that you should vote on the basis of conscience, but that it should only apply to a few. I hope that the representatives of the Right and the Left also listen to the call of the City of Ropp, so that you can go into the future instead of staying on the spot not only rest, but take a step backwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2210	If you Google early ultrasound, you get a lot of hits on where you can do this, at a certain cost. Most of the offers are in Oslo. In Oslo, nine out of ten women take early ultrasound, the vast majority of the private actors. For women in Lake Sandness, in Sortland and in Steigen, or almost in the whole of North Norway, it is almost impossible to get this offer today. One of my good friends checked the possibility across the country without having an hour. It was not available, because this hastened a little bit. So this is also a district trap. Today, women in the north also get more and earlier information about their body and their child, and I am very happy about that. It is about getting an offer regardless of the place of residence and no matter how the size of the wallet is. I have great respect and understanding that there are different opinions in this matter, and I am also very concerned about the sorting society. But as my party leader was involved in his post, this is primarily about the security of families with high needs for care, the rights of people with disabilities and a universally designed society. The fact that all women are to be offered early ultrasound is about something more than the sorting society. First of all, it is about each woman having informed choices. It's actually about protecting women from dying. Secondly, it is not least about confidence that the individual can make the right choices on behalf of himself. And third, early ultrasound is about whether the child is viable and in the worst case, it can damage mother or lead to the life of her mother being in danger. By changing these opportunities for all women in Norway, wherever you live, or regardless of the size of the wallet, everyone can make informed choices. I believe that this is an important and historic step forward for all Norwegian families.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2229	There are several proposals that can get more today, including: the proposal for egg donation. I mean, we're not reflecting too little on what this, collecting the set, thinking about when it's related to reproductive health. The Biotechnology Council writes that there are very few women who ‘need egg donation on a medical indication’, although that is what we are hearing in this room today. They write that the need for egg donation is ‘mainly due to the fact that women are increasingly waiting a long time to try to have children’. Then we should ask ourselves if we are doing too little to help young women have children in the past, and that we have the most focus on helping women to have children in the future. This is a circle that's eternal, but we're forced to look at how we can get more kids to have kids before. That's the obvious answer. So early ultrasound: I hear some representatives say that you haven't been offered a medical indication, that this isn't an offer for every other place in the country. But the answer to these differences is not to introduce a screening survey of the entire healthy population, and at least not when the last major knowledge acquisition showed that there would be uncertain answers both in the case of heart failure and in the case of other developmental organisms. In the case of twin transfusion syndrome, one could prove it, but if it was a health benefit, it was also uncertain. The only thing that's safe for the test is neck folds and trisomiar. One has to take over. I would therefore strongly warn against believing that a routine offer of early ultrasound is a health benefit – when one cannot document it. And I thought it was special that representatives by representative come up here and know all the professional stuff about this. I don't think I should be so sure - one must base the acquisition of knowledge on what this will mean. The same applies to the NIPT test. It's a great test when used for indication, it's very accurate, and it allows you to avoid a lot of misinterpretations. But used as a screening survey on the whole of the healthy population, he has a completely different hit value – one can get a lot of fake positives, which can increase anxiety out there. So we have to distinguish between health care and screening, and it doesn't have multiples in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2240	Screening is not proposed today. It suggests offering to everyone, similar to everyone, regardless of where you live, who you are, and how your wallet is. So please do not spread such false notions about what is being proposed today. I want a society where we welcome the world to everyone who is born. That is why I have made proposals today, many proposals, to ensure that it is possible for parents to make the free choices, where they know that society is setting up if a child is ill, has developmental disabilities or has disabilities. We all know that it's not like that. We've had rounds now in this ageing period, where the lions' mothers have had to sit in the hall here and fight to have an income that can live on, when you have children who need attention and care around the clock. No one is going to tell me that there are choices that are easy to take for them, but we can do much, much more to make the choices possible for everyone, and it wants SV. Then it's not about what we're talking about right now. I've been with you since the whole abortion fight started in the 1970s, and I've heard the same arguments in every case all the way. I have never believed that it is possible to deny that people will get information about themselves, when it exists. I have no faith that it is possible to stop technology that is developing. Then there's a question whether it should be accessible to everyone, or just to someone. What I have also wondered about in this debate is that, as it is now, you come to the sorting society. I just want to remind you that for very many years we have had this possibility where the risk is greatest. So we've systematically gone where the risk is greater, and we've done that for a long time. I've lived a long life now. I hope you get wiser with the years, but I'm not so sure. I think most people are able to make these choices seagoing, whether they're below these age limits, or whether they're over. If we don't allow this, the consequence is that more people have to take away late. I do not understand that anyone sees that it should be an advantage. In 1915, Katti Anker Møller, one of my great role models, said in the speech of his Motherhood's liberation, that we love motherhood and want it well, but in full voluntarity. I'll add: with all the information to be able to make maritime choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2255	Let me begin by stating that I am in line with the Central Party's policy, as he states in the setting and in the Party Program. Biotechnology is difficult – there are major issues of life, ethics, morality, biology, justice and wrong, issues related to health policy, equality, human vision. But I want to say that I found many of the arguments that are presented from positions other than my own are good arguments. In some areas, I should even go so far as to say that the arguments put forward for liberalising are better than my own arguments for not doing so. Several have said today that the matters we are dealing with are demanding. But with the great medical and technological progress that comes over the next few years, these kinds of things will become even more difficult in the future. So we have to find a good way to deal with this kind of thing. The pace of today's business is not an example for others. It will contribute to an increase in the level of conflict, a poor debate and poor solutions. These things are not black-and-white. It's e.g. not so that society is divided into two, between those who want a sort society, on the one hand, and those who don't want a sort society, on the other. Even if I voice early ultrasound today, I don't think those who speak for are for a sort society. My criticism of the process is partly directed towards the Labour Party, SV and the Progress Party. But I understand that they are using a possibility that offered themselves, so my criticism is also directed against the Christian People's Party. In fact, I will vote like the Christian People's Party today, but if the debate ends today with liberalisation, the Christian People's Party will have to bear a great deal of responsibility for it. When the Christian People's Party was to choose direction, today's leadership in the Christian People's Party, with Ropstad and Bollestad at the head, used §2c as a piece in its own power struggle in the party to secure itself positions in the party and government. With this, the Christian People's Party sets a new standard for the societal debate on difficult ethical issues, and it is not a gold standard but a bottom standard. Today's debate may even say that many of the issues are lost for us who are on the conservative side of biotechnology. Those who have lost but have won power with this can retain their positions and privileges afterwards. My appeal to the party is that in this kind of case we go away from absolute and veto law and practice compromise, dialogue and involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2270	Biotechnology is one of the most difficult things I've debated. It rocks by being a human being. It affects many around us. It asks questions about our thoughts about what is a family. It triggers personal stories, experiences and emotions. We agree that ethical assessments must control technology and not the opposite. One of the more problematic aspects of the proposals today is the approach to the issue of early foetal diagnosis. One of the methods that provide good answers to heritable diseases, blood type problems and chromosome abnormalities early in pregnancy is the NIPT test, a simple blood test that can provide extensive information on the foetus, and allows the woman to escape the Morcoa and Foetal water tests. Today, the test is part of foetal diagnostics. I understand the desire to give all women access to this test, and I understand that getting information early in pregnancy can be reassuring. I also understand that it may be burdensome not to know. Nevertheless, I believe there are good reasons not to open up foetal diagnostics for everyone. One of the main reasons behind the rules on foetal diagnostics is to protect against a sorting society. If the community allows this for all, we leave the consideration that fetuses cannot be sorted on the basis of properties. If the community gives everyone the offer, it's an invitation to take advantage of the test, and if the community allows it, we know what the consequences are. Options are not taken in a vacuum. What the state is doing is important to the choices we make. I don't want to let foster care with certain characteristics stand behind women's right to more information. It's an ethically difficult question, but it's also an honest choice. We must not interpret each other in the worst sense. The followers of early foetal diagnostics for all do not want a less equal society without diversity, and the opponents of early foetal diagnostics for all do not want to control and control women's bodies. This is about balancing different considerations — on the one hand, taking into account the rights of individuals and, on the other hand, the Community interest in the use of technology for our common good. Few focus only on one consideration. No matter what reasons we focus most, both sides have to recognise that the position has negative consequences. Opponents must recognize that the individual's rights are not being extended, and that not everyone is getting the same amount of information early. Trailers must recognise that fewer persons with specific characteristics will be born. The last is crucial for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2291	I would like to say a few words about a matter which has disappeared a little in the debate today, but which is not less important for that reason. This applies to genetic self-testing of children outside the healthcare system. There is today a market for genetic self-testing. It is usually run by large international companies with head offices abroad. You can easily take a water stick in your mouth and send in your own genes for testing. Here you can identify ethnicity and kinship, or you can identify the risk of a future disease. There is reason to be concerned about the possibility of commercialising and researching biological material that has been collected in this way. And what about the actual test? How reliable is it? Those taking it are not necessarily surrounded by competent health professionals who can interpret the results for them. A positive response can cause absolutely unnecessary health anxiety, and a negative response can provide false security. The market for genetic self-testing is growing. There's certainly not a general ban is the right way to go, but I think there's a reason to look at how we regulate this market, and at least provide for a more informed public debate on this, so that more people become aware of the consequences it might have to submit such a test. And what about children? There is currently no prohibition on transmitting their own child's DNA. This opens up serious interference with the integrity of children. It's not sure this is information they actually want. People have a different view of how much they want to know about their own future health, and with these children they are deprived of the right to choose this for themselves at a later stage. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee has agreed to ban genetic self-testing of children. So it's not given that it's the biotechnology law that's the right place to legislate this. That is why it is also a point that the Committee is now asking the government to come back to Stortinget with a legislative proposal. Maybe it's the Children's Act, or maybe there's another law where this is best suited. The most important thing is that the integrity of children and the right to privacy are safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2306	It's been a debate, and we're going to have another minute. I have some comments on a number of things that have been raised in the debate. First of all, the process: you can get the impression that these are issues that have not been at the hearing. It's completely wrong. This has been discussed for many years. The Biotechnology Council, which has a special task of discussing these kinds of issues, has in fact expressed its opinion on all the proposals that are now supported by a majority, and several of them also in several rounds – both the old Biotechnology Council, led by Kristin Halvorsen, and the new Biotechnology Council, led by Ole Frithjof Norheim. Several have referred to the head of Ole Frithjof Norheim that he felt it was an urgent task when these proposals came out and the Biotechnology Council was given the opportunity to comment on them. But you haven't referred Norheim correctly. I heard him on the New Day on 18 May, where he was very clear when he said that the government had dealt with these important questions by not mentioning them in the proposition when it was presented in the autumn. Here the government has been late, and the Storting has been too fast. You should render the whole reasoning when you use it as income for your vision. Several have referred to early ultrasound. Kjersti Top of the Center Party actually went so far on the pulpit as to say that there was zero health gain with early ultrasound. Even Christian Folk Party Geir Jørgen Bekkevold acknowledged that early ultrasound can bring health benefits to some women and families. However, the professional environment in Norway is very clear: in a chronicle in the evening post, 15 representatives from the country's foetal medicine professional community describe the changes in the biotechnology law – for which there is now a majority – as a step forward for women's health, where knowledge early in pregnancy can not only save lives, but can be part of and treat both the foetus and the mother. They list a number of arguments for that. To this knowledge base from 2012 that several people refer to, a report that the Knowledge Centre summarized on the benefit of early ultrasound: it did not say, as Kjersti Toppe says, that this brings zero health benefits – it said that they cannot detect health benefits, but, and I have read the report, it also said that they cannot exclude it either. On the issue of priority and what this does with the economic priorities of healthcare, I would encourage everyone to read all the proposals made by the Centre Party during this period and the previous period, and to consider what they do with the health priorities of healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2319	In 1978, an obstetric report described abortion of fetuses with Down’s syndrome as a prevention measure. It's really not that long ago. Today, we are discussing whether foetal diagnostics should enter routine pregnancy control without evidence of a health benefit. It's not a value neutral decision. If the official routine search for specific genetic properties is combined with a ‘objective’ view of what is quality of life, and abortion then appears to be the rational choice to make, we will also end up using foetal diagnostics to prevent the births of children with specific genetic properties. It's a signal we're sending – it's a message of value. Most people don't want perfect children, they want normal children. We as a society are involved in defining what is normal, and it also contributes to influencing people's choices. Tolerance and diversity are not values that occur in a vacuum, it arises because we mirror in each other. The early diagnosis champions of all are entitled to provide more information on the development of the foetus, but it cannot provide an answer on how life becomes for the family or for the child, and whether there are more good days than bad. This is where we're really at the core: Many of these questions lie in the field of tension between the desire of science to answer all the questions of life and to enable people to rule them, and the realization that there is no such perfect life or perfect human being – that life is unpredictable. In the evening post, the head of the Biotechnology Council writes that in a few years' time it will not be possible to use the NIPT test to analyse all the genes of the foetus, and that the bill that the three parties have collided on the Stortinge raises major and difficult questions about where the boundaries will go. I agree with that, because if it's the way the Labour Party claims today, it's a unique saying for women to get all the information about the fetus, how are we going to limit what information you should get? The concern for a slope-planning effect is quite real, because the concern is that we, as politicians, as human beings, over time shrivel in relation to our own values – that new examples allow us to liberalise once again, that new media headlines make us pull the knit even a little further. It is particularly easy to imagine that we can do that when the majority parties in this case are unable to justify in an ethical and rational way why they set the limit one place. There are certain representatives who have said that they do not believe that technology can be controlled, and I have to say that I see it as a failure statement in these difficult ethical debates. History is full of technological advances and ideas that, for good reason, never became all-manhood, and it is not necessarily liberal to make irreversible choices on behalf of future generations, or choices that can and will limit the space of diversity in our society. The imperfect is the core of being human.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2332	Many have pointed out that the debate on biotechnology has many aspects and shades. A shade that, on the other hand, is not so obvious when it comes to early ultrasound, is that it is an offer of early ultrasound. It's an offer to get it funded through the community. Like many other parts of our healthcare and welfare state – when we choose to fund it together, it comes as an offer. It's an important shade to bring with it, because sometimes it's made as if this is a conscious sorting, but it's a desire for everyone to get equivalent information. We already know today that 70 pst. women make use of the possibility that exists and that we know exists, but that is not real to all. Therefore, this case is about early ultrasound on real equal opportunities and that everyone should be able to plan their future family life in the same way, regardless of the resources and financial assumptions. It's a very important thing for us in the Workers' Party that the right to a family life as you want it to be is going to be equivalent to everyone and not just reserved for them with strong financial resources. In VG today, there is an interesting matter about a father who has a son with a great need for care. He describes very wisely that he is pleased that this will be a greater opportunity for more people. What strikes me as one of the heavy arguments that early ultrasound should be an equal opportunity is that many of the adult people who are infinitely happy with their young people with high needs for care, at the same time say that this must be up to each family and each mother to make a decision for her pregnancy. That's why the end of the posts of the representative Karin Andersen was very important and very good, because this is about women's real freedom. As Andersen's representative said, we love motherhood, and it must be a free motherhood. It's an honest debate to take, I mean. That is why this is a step forward for equality, but above all for everyone to have an equivalent offer of something that we know today that many people are using, but that are not really there for the wider community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2344	Before I continue on my post from instead, I would first of all like to thank all those people and families out there who have been in the fight much longer than us politicians, and who have dared to stand up with their stories. We are grateful for that. I must also be allowed to point out that I have noticed all the men who have strong opinions in this debate. As a member of the Family and Culture Committee, of course, I want the commitment to be equally strong in future issues relating to family and gender policy – that is also said. Lonely adoption of children in Norway has been permitted since the 1990s. Society has also said for over 20 years that single people can be good caregivers for adopted children, but not for children with whom they have a genetic connection. That's what we call paradoxical in pretty mountain terms. We know that hundreds of Norwegian women travel to other countries every year just to get assisted conception, and by allowing assisted conception in Norway, we have the opportunity to create a safe and good framework for women and not least for the children themselves. I have a lot of understanding that this is about demanding questions for many. We need respect for the debate, and we need respect for different views. For me, however, it is important to stress today from this pulpit: the Christian People's Party does not have a monopoly on conscience. One would think there was a limit to the state's regulatoryism to politicians towards the freedom, choice and conscience of individuals and families. This is about providing women with safety through pregnancy and access to all available information — if you want to. It won't be right for either me or representatives of the Christian People's Party to stand here today and say what's right for the individual. Those choices must allow people to make themselves. That's exactly what we're doing by offering the NIPT test to women with a medical indication. It is a risk-free blood test that would avoid unnecessary use of the current risk-filled foetal water test. In other words, this information is already available today, but late in pregnancy and in a risky way. For the Progress Party and me, it is difficult to understand how the Christian People's Party can believe that women should not be entitled to the same information offered today, but in a more sound and safer way, which is not a risk to either mother or child. Unlike the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party wants to put 2020 technology to work for the best for women's health, and I am proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2361	There is a big mistake in the debate. The conservatives say that pregnant women should not get good information about the fetus they carry. It's a mistake. Pregnants get early ultrasound, many get NIPT today. Who gets it? The rich, the people who live in the cities, the ones who have resources. Our proposal is that everyone should have the same opportunities, including those who don't have that much money. An offer of early ultrasound is important to save children. My friend, Christin on the Nesodden, lost twins. We can help more. Why should we stop the help they need? It's not the technology that's available, that determines which society we get. It is governed by the solutions adopted by the Storting. If society helps more families, we can build a society that has room for everyone. I'm worried about the conservatives who want to hide and hide information, and they're forgetting the debate on better help afterwards – that they're forgetting families and sick children and children with disabilities who live today. SV wants a good society for everyone. We propose a statutory right to family vicars for families with special care challenges, and we propose changes to the law that give all parents who have been diagnosed with a fetus with Down's syndrome or other variation or disease, the right to follow up and guidance. We propose to guarantee parents the right to, and give municipalities the obligation to set up with, a permanent contact person or coordinator as early as possible. I hope that the Conservatives will not forget the debate after this today, because there will be more proposals. Then I hope that those who have said that it is important to have a community for everyone will work with SV to get a better offer for all families and also for all sick children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2374	Biotechnology is a very important and incredibly demanding theme. There are many demanding ethical questions. There must be room for all people, human dignity must be at the heart, and solidarity must be with those who are economically weak in society. To me, it's incredibly important. Government has a special responsibility to give these people a better life. I'm going to say that the Center Party has been involved in strengthening the rights and opportunities of those people who have different demanding needs over the last major periods. We should not be discriminated against on the basis of the individual's legacy, and the sum of this is that biotechnology must therefore be regulated by law. New biotechnology shall not be such that the use of it is to be determined by the researchers. There are laws to regulate what we ethically can do with the fragile life that can grow and grow. That's why I'm very impressed by the Biotechnology Act's purpose clause, § 1-1, where it says: ‘The aim of this Act is to ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. This shall be done in accordance with principles of respect for human dignity, human rights and personal integrity and without discrimination on the basis of heritage based on the ethical standards enshrined in our Western cultural heritage.» – A good and balanced purpose paragraph. When I read the comments and proposals for decisions of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and SV, I see clearly the ethical challenges in relation to the objectives of biotechnology in the proposal that reads: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that, in the future, the biotechnology law can be evaluated more dynamically and continuously in order to keep up with the rapid development of biotechnology.’ – I.e., they underline ‘dynamic’, ‘running’ and ‘holding pace with rapid development’. When the main spokeswoman of the Workers' Party, Tuva Moflag, did not even try to answer the dilemma between biotechnological changes and ethical boundaries in the line change with Kjersti Toppe, I understand that for example. The working party is the new technological possibilities that are clearly given the right to drive. I belong to those who are the followers of a very thoroughly thought-out ethical solution to the new technological possibilities that open up for humans to decide who is to be carried until birth, and how people are being deprived of which legacy. This is really central. And there are very demanding dilemmas, which require a continuously enlightened conversation that provides knowledge and formation of attitudes, to tackle an increasingly demanding area of life. I'm humble to life. I know it from my profession. We're not going to claw too much with life. There is a general rule of thumb — the consequences are evident after many decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2399	The representative, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2404	First of all, to what was said about early ultrasound, the NIPT test, first of all, being an offer: I think we have to admit that by introducing something as part of the public health service, a lot of people will feel that it is quite in the best interests of saying no to such an offer. I think we have to admit that. So to those who believe that this is a struggle about who has the best morals: I haven't heard that it's hailed with accusations that someone has a higher morale than others. What we have is disagreement. That is what we are – we disagree – also considering the consequences of these proposals. It must be allowed to be without accusations that you have a worse or better morale. In the end, someone wants the Christian People's Party to fight a battle on the wrong side of history. Fighting for children's rights and fighting for a society with space for everyone will never be a battle on the wrong side of history.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2419	‘This year we have had two events in Norwegian hospitals that led to a debate on the use of resources in health care and ethical issues in medical development: the first heart transplant at the Rikshospitale and the emergence of the first child to be caught by the test tube method at the Regional Hospital in Trondheim. Behind both events were large and highly qualified teams of health professionals with long-standing work behind the results achieved. Through this work, they moved the boundaries of the Norwegian health care system and opened up new opportunities for treatment.’ These aren't my words. This is the words of Gro Harlem Brundtland in 1984, and this speech was given by my good colleague Svein Roald Hansen. I think it was such a good speech to draw up today, because we can draw the lines from 1984 until today. We can subtract the lines from the women who've been dealing with these questions for decades. The results we get here today are based on the shoulders of the women and men who have gone before us. In this speech, Gro Harlem Brundtland takes up the birth of the first parson child. We don't call it a test tube anymore. We call it assisted fertilization now. I have heard several representatives today use the word ‘ding’ about the way people become. But wasn't that what you really did in 1984? Was it ‘thinging’ when we introduced assisted fertilisation in health care? I also heard a concern about the way people came into being, that it could be a little bit of love. I don't think it was the word that was used, but the representative was right in front of me, who said it. I think there's so much love for all these children regardless of the way they were created. One of my closest ones I'm most fond of, has had ten attempts at assisted conception to have one child. There's so much love behind it. It is not the conception that sets the limits of the love in which the child is created. It's the desire to have that child, it's to carry that child forward, it's to be the mother and father of that child. Finally, I would like to say that I really think that the debate has been quite eloquent. I think the tone has essentially been good, and we have managed to have a dignity on the issues that many find difficult, and on which we disagree, so I really want to thank everyone for a good debate, although there are still some speakers left on the list.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2434	Former prime minister Jo Benkow is often quoted as saying, "I choose Right, because that is the party that best guarantees me the right to be different." When we put the individual in the center, we guarantee the right to be different, and thus a diverse society. It's with this starting point that I've ended up on the right-hand side of politics. I recognise that in the Right we are falling into different positions on issues like those we are dealing with today, but I am proud to belong to a party that recognises ethical dilemmas and respects the fact that there are difficult issues in this debate. The right has adopted egg donation and assisted fertilization for lonely, but there are still shared opinions with us. Those who do not recognise the ethical issues facing individuals, technology and society do both individuals, technology and society a service of bear. We're going to control the technology, not let the technology control us. I think of medical technology and biotechnology alone as an instrument to improve life and quality of life, and I want to take a strong distance from those who talk about sorting societies when they talk about the difficult choices a family faces if a wanted child turns out to have diagnostics that can be incompatible with life. My right to be different and my diversity is not defined by sickness or diagnosis, but respect for everyone in any case. Manifestations that require the retention of information and the detention of medical means of saving or improving lives are not my diversity. To resolve all my doubts, I am in favour of the majority of the changes that are going through in the Storting today, and I will be the first to admit that I have conscientious qualms after being a vote against changes in the abortion law and for the changes in the biotechnology law that we are debating now, without even voting for what I am actually in favour of. That is the result of my acceptance of the outcome of the government negotiations on the Granavolden platform last January, and relate to it. Then the political situation was slightly different. In fact, I think that the Advance Party is making itself a little over high and dark. The representative Bruun-Gundersen asked the Left a question as to which individual matter in the Granavolden platform is so important that they cannot contribute to the majority in the Chamber today. I could almost ask the Progress Party about the same thing. Because if these things had been so important to the Progress Party during the Granavolden negotiations, they would have been in that platform. But at the top of the important breakthroughs for the new government platform on the website of the Progress Party, there is an impact on the right to drive for 120 km on Norwegian roads and tax deductions for tolls. Several have indicated that this debate has also remained silent since 2004 and the next eight, red-green years. I think we are all served with some humility in this debate – it deserves it. But I choose to think that over the years that have gone by, we actually know and know more, and I think basically that the changes the government proposed were important and correct, and of course will support these. But when there are calls from this pulpit to vote according to my conscience from several of the parties who vote against, I would like to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2449	The President will state that voting in case No. 13 will become when the debate on substance. 13 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2454	In this debate we have heard many examples of why the Biotechnology Act is so ethically difficult, but not least important. Biotechnology touches on close and important issues for people during life. For the Christian People's Party, however, it is that in terms of how we will manage biotechnology in the future, we are constantly working to uphold children's rights and to facilitate a diverse society. The fact that the UN Children's Convention states that children have the right to know their parents is central. Nevertheless, it is likely to be a defeat for children's right to know their origins and where they come from. This case has created an enormous commitment to society over the past few weeks. I want to remind the Storting that the questions we are dealing with today are really shaping what kind of societies we get in the future. There are many people with different diagnoses and diseases who are following closely what we adopt today at Stortinget, because what we adopt sends signals about which people are wanted in our society. The great commitment in this matter shows that there are many who share the concerns of the Christian People's Party that the proposal of early ultrasound to all pregnant women can lead to a society that sorts out those that are different. Norwegian society is obliged to maintain the equal value of all people. Therefore, it is very unfortunate that we are now opening up to look for more and more of the different diseases and chromosome abnormalities. What signals do we send to those who today live with Down’s syndrome or spinal cord, or to those sitting in a wheelchair? The Christian People's Party will continue to fight for everyone's place in society, regardless of the outcome of the vote today. The Christian People's Party takes seriously the fight for children's rights and a society with room for all. It may not be that the wishes of adults are to go ahead of the rights and needs of children or that the needs of adults for knowledge are put ahead of caring for a society with room for those who are different. For the Christian People's Party, this is a battle of values. It's about what kind of society we create for the future – that it's going to be a society with space for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2465	As usual in this kind of debate, it may be wise for us in the Christian People's Party to be present late in the debate in order to be able to answer a part of what comes from the Workers' Party – as well today. Let me first give tribute to the representative Tuva Moflag, who I believe has set a standard in today's debate with his factual and clear contributions. One may disagree in the matter, but it has been good to listen to Moflag. Unfortunately, not all of her co-representatives in the Labour Party have held the same standard. Åsmund Aukrust believed that the Christian People's Party is a party that is opposed to all progress, and that the Workers' Party has nothing to give in the matter of biotechnology. That's not true. No changes were made to the Biotechnology Act in the years 2005–2013 either. Then the Center Party did the job, got up and stopped the Workers' Party's work after changing the Biotechnology Act. The centre party deserves all manner of praise for its clarity in the kind of questions we are discussing today. It is valued and noticed by the Christian People's Party. To the representative Cecilie Myrseth, who thought that we are sneerly and promote condemnation and shame: The representative Myrseth should perhaps have taken some time to read editorials in the country's newspapers, whether it's in the VG or in the Sunnmørspost, where she will see that there will be mounting criticism of the urgent decisions on biotechnology, with demanding ethical and international implications, which the Workers' Party, together with the fly parties SV and the Progress Party, will now trump. There are far more than Christian People's Party's representatives and voters who believe that when biotechnology is now made an urgent matter, professional bodies are cut off from giving opinions on the radical changes to the biotechnology law proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2479	I have thought in this process that there are three aspects that I find difficult. It's a blood test times two – one for those who today have an offer for a feeding water test, but also that we make it available to those who are travelling to Sweden today. I know a lot of people who have been through e.g. a test of amniotic fluid, and to describe it briefly: it is – as one person told – to get into the 16th week, get a needle in the stomach and sit at home and wait and know the child kick for four weeks before a letter arrives in the post. Then I think the NIPT is better for more people. I've talked to two young girls – when I say "young girls," they're under 30 years old – and one had been on ultrasound and asked, "Is there anything special you're looking for? Yeah, we're trying to do a good job, they said. Yes, but if there are two arms, two legs and the heart beat, I am satisfied, she answered. But her friend traveled to Sweden. It has something to do with what starting point you have, and what we want to choose. This is hard. No one thinks this is easy, I think. I would like to read a sentence that Bent Höie came with in connection with a written question about relief for children who need assistance in my hometown. I'll just read one sentence, which I think is brilliant considering very many questions that can be difficult. ‘The accountability requirement evolves in line with recognised expertise, professional guidance and universal societal norms and changes in perceptions of values.’ I think it's well written. That's what we're really talking about: how do we develop our values? My grandmother was reported to have had an abortion at Eidsvoll in 1894. Fourteen days later, she left without baggage on the ship "Iceland" on her way to the United States. At the time, they didn't require paperwork to travel, and she probably sneaked in on 1st grade, because they didn't show paperwork on arrival. So that time it was so criminal that she found out that it was best to escape. You don't have to do that today. But it's a struggle for attitudes – I'm going to challenge both the Christian People's Party and the Right in my home municipality in the time to come, in terms of the fight parents and relatives must have in order to get services for children, young people and adults with need of assistance. I think I'll finish there and draw myself another one, because I have a little bit more on my list and I guess I'll have the opportunity for another three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2497	The representative has the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2502	One of my first assignments at Stortinget in 2017 was Report. St. 39 for 2016-2017, Evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. The evaluation revealed that today’s law no longer corresponds to the practical and technological reality. This may lead to non-compliance with the legislation and, in practice, to medical and technological developments which alone determine. Since then, I have been invited to many forums outside Stortingen to discuss the revision of the Biotechnology Act, where my background in molecular biology and experience in research ethics has been seen as a strength in this way. Not least I have been contacted by desperate couples who want to have children, but where her eggs do not work. Had the fault lay with the man, sperm donation would have been an opportunity. In Norway, the biological contribution of men is obviously not as important as that of women. Semen donation is therefore unproblematic, while egg donation is unimaginable to many. Understand the one who can. The Biotechnology Communication became the country in the spring of 2018. Then we went to the right and assured our voters that the Right would vote for when the government was about to come up with a bill on egg donation and assisted fertilization for lonely, as the national meeting had decided. But when the bill finally came, it was without the most important questions, because it was already voted down by the Christian People's Party in connection with the Granavolden platform. I have loyally ended up on the Granavolden platform, despite the fact that it has resulted in many camels swallowing head hair and against better knowledge. Now the four parties that agreed on the Granavolden platform are no longer in agreement, so the agreement on the Biotechnology Act also falls. Many of these years have gone on — and it has been for a long time — claiming the right to vote against changes in the biological technology law for reasons of conscience. For me, too, this is a question of conscience – a question of how many times I should be able to stand with my right back and vote against the decision of the National Council here in this Chamber, and against what I have promised the voters over and over again. I therefore want to vote in favour of egg donation and assisted fertilization for lonely today. That doesn't mean I want a sorting society and a full release of biotechnology, and that technology is going to save everyone, as many here claim. It's going to be terribly uncomfortable for me to assert this integrity, but this camel is unfortunately impossible for me to swallow.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2515	So we're sitting here, in front of 75 glass-plastics, which is a screaming symbol that medical science really hasn't come that far in many areas. I want to say a few words about what I am quite comfortable with, also together with the Christian People's Party and the Right, in this matter. This concerns the NIPT test, which I am not going to elaborate on in particular – it has been excellently done by the representative Ketil Kjeseth – but it is not subject to usual methodological assessments. So it's about mitochondria donation. There we have said in the Left that we are optimistic about technology, but I have great sympathy for those who today have drawn up the difficulties of the Biomedicine Convention. The doctors I've talked to, consider this to be the most science fiction in many areas. And the Biotechnology Council, which dealt with this matter in 2016, with 13 to 1 votes, has called this something similar to cloning. You cannot, on the one hand – as the representative Kjerkol said here recently – embrace the professional environment and beat yourself on the chest with it and in the next hand do not take into account the professionalism of relationships that do not speak for their benefit. Then I need to say that there has been a situation during this debate regarding the Progress Party minority proposal No. 1 new second and third paragraphs. There was the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left initially agreed to stand together, but now the Christian People's Party has withdrawn from this for reasons of principle. It leaves in many ways the left under the bus in this context. I cannot find myself in it, and we are going to vote according to our primary policy in this field and vote against the proposal of the Progress Party on § 2-15, not least to illustrate that we actually have a more liberal policy like our primary policy than the Progress Party has.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2531	A long debate on important values is coming to an end today. We are living at a time when technology developments are moving fast and fast. It does it in all areas. We see it in defence – where I have been sitting in a closed hearing today and have not been followed up entirely – we see it in health, and we also see it in biotechnology. Many of the technological developments are of the good. Many people make life better for people. Many can save lives and secure a social development that we want. But when it comes to biotechnology, it has some aspects. Of course, it also has within health as a whole. It has it in defence technology and technology in other areas, but perhaps especially in this area. And it annoys me when the plural today hastens through decisions that are not properly elaborated and that are not properly heard. It may appear that they do not believe that these proposals are in such a process as such important decisions should have. It also bothers me when the plural suggests: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that, in the future, the biotechnology law can be evaluated more dynamically and continuously in order to keep up with the rapid development of biotechnology’. Yes, if this hall is to follow and adopt what is being developed in the world today in biotechnology at such a rapid pace as one does today, it will at least be dynamic. If it's a good decision, if they want the values and the ethical approaches that we want, I'm more uncertain about. There can be no technological development or what is allowed in other countries, which is decisive for what we in Norway regard as fundamental ethical considerations. When egg donation is now presumed to be allowed, if it is allowed, and sperm donation is allowed, one actually also opens up so that one can have children who have no genetic connection with parents. Then the road is very short for embryo donation, and then the road is very short also for surrogati – with what is happening today. This builds up a threshold that we shouldn't build up, and I mean it in the next instance – if one continues on this one, I would almost say, the gallie – will be contrary to Article 7 of the Children's Convention, that kids, as far as they can, have the right to know their parents and get care of them. This is about values. It's about what we think about the creation, and how far a kid is going to be born to you, when there are so many kids who need care in the world today, and who, in my family at least, have led to an incredible amount of joy through adoption.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2551	For me, everyone in this room is equipped with a conscience. I don't know anyone in this room who'll sort out kids. That in itself is a monstrous suggestion. But these are difficult choices, we agree on that. Every time there is talk of gender equality policy and women's rights, there will be big and long debates. Dorothy Sayers, who was the daughter of a priest, who wanted to work after she was one of the first to receive long-term education, said: There have never been questions about women's right to work. They do that every day, where they labor on the fields side by side with their men. It's only when work becomes interesting, gives high pay or power, that the question of women's right to work is discussed. Men have donated semen for 90 years, I have read – with that reservation. Never has there been a debate about their intentions, morals, how society should be if they donate that seed, their ethics, their underlying purposes, or their altruism. But when women are to be given the same opportunities, yes, we are touching the anti-discrimination genes that exist in our society. Then we have to raise moral and ethical questions, end them from side to side, and we have to talk about the responsibility for sorting. Very well-known is chronic disease and serious heredity also become an assessment issue when men are sperm donors. You can make your own decision. It should just be lacking that women do not have the same morals as men to make the same decisions. This is pretty recognizable politics when we talk about giving women influence over their own lives. Every time that kind of question is up for debate, there are many other questions that become so much, much more important. We know that the Christian People's Party has been negative to part of women's self-determination for a long time, but I must say that I am quite surprised that modern people in the Right and the Left are being forced to veto this matter. At least there is a great deal of respect for the members of the parties who have stood on this pulpit and said that they will also follow their conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2567	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2572	The biotechnology field contains many dilemmas. We have to balance access to new technology with ethical considerations, and I think we all do that. That one position is no better than the other, but I ask for respect for each other's arguments. When it comes to the proposal on foetal diagnostics to be allowed for all, this is an entirely new principle in an untransparent field. NIPT is not a test, but it is a method that can soon detect other diseases. Then I thought it sad that the Stortinget dealt with this almost above the table, without a proper debate, without a thorough explanation of consequences both for one's self and for others. What I would like to highlight at the end of my speaking time is the breaking of Article 28 of the BioConvention on a thorough debate on such matters before it is introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2581	It has been a long day, it has been a good discussion, and I would say that since these questions have been on the agenda for years, there is no uninformed assembly to vote on these matters today. It is correct, as Heidi Nordby Lunde says, that many people in these cases have been forced to vote against their own convictions. There are important and difficult ethical discussions, but no one has a monopoly on what is ethical, nor is anyone – Lundtigen had a humble attitude – who in this context has a monopoly on being humble. I think we all are. What I think seems to be a strange argument is that these matters have not been investigated. If you look at the issues of foetal reduction or reservation rights, this was a matter that was thrown into the government statement without any kind of thorough investigation. So when someone in some cases says that the cases have not been well investigated, but in other cases they say they have been well investigated, this appears to be a partially substantiated argument. This gives me some parallels to when we adopted changes to the marriage law in this hall in 2008. The main argument against the marriage law was that the matter was not properly resolved. Since that time it has got more and more trailers in this room. I'm also opposed to calling foetal water diagnostics a'sorting society', because that's when you assign people's opinions that it's not the basis for. On the contrary, after getting more ultrasound, we take better care of people with disabilities in Norwegian society. And if that's how Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde says, that we're on a slope, I disagree with that kind of argument. I believe that in these ethical questions we will address each question individually. If this was a slope, we should be opposed to any ultrasound. An additional element: I am concerned that children should know their biological origin. When we allow assisted fertilisation for solitary and egg donation in Norway, we make this possible within a safe framework in Norway. The alternative for many of those who want children in this way is to go abroad, where you don't know your biological origin. By allowing that kind of technology in Norway, we give more opportunities to know their biological origin when they're 18 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2592	When I was pregnant with my daughter three years ago, I got the much-mentioned NIPT test that we're talking about here today -- not to check if it was chromosome abnormalities, but because my daughter and I, the baby in my stomach, had different blood. It could potentially be dangerous for her, but because technology had come so far, and because we've allowed it, I could get the right health care. What could have been dangerous never became dangerous, because the technology and the law allowed it. But NIPT is not all who get. Early ultrasound and NIPT give women and families the right to know and an equal right not to know for those who don't want to know. Today we vote on the right to make our own informed choices. Time is not irrelevant in a pregnancy. Being able to get good information early in pregnancy allows us to also prevent senaborts, not to expose women and couples to more than they have to. Today, we are voting on good maternity care regardless of the economy, to be able to get equal rights to help with infertility. The comments in the position state that there are some very difficult ethical issues that the majority parties have not reflected on. These are strong accusations from my opponents of opinion. I don't think there's anyone in this room who hasn't reflected, but I think you've just landed on different points of view, that we haven't stressed the same thing. The debate has highlighted the fact that NIPT is not value-neutral – yes, I fully agree with that. It's not value neutral to be able to get information and make independent choices. For me, it has a self-esteem that women know, that women can make their own choices, because that's her choice, and that's something I don't have anything to do with. It is not the Christian People's Party that has a monopoly on self-esteem. We're all in this hall of diversity. Manyfold is about space for everyone, that we have good systems that make it not a burden to have a child who needs a little bit of extra help. And we all have the debate on pampering money fresh in mind. This must be an opportunity for couples and women to make independent, free choices themselves on the basis of the information they receive. For me, it becomes artificial that women should receive this information only much later in pregnancy – so that you may have to go through a heavy, latent distance. Today is an important day for women's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2605	I got so far that I mentioned a little about why I had landed that I think there is more positive in this proposal than I can subtract. Therefore, I would like to say that there is also an assessment related to the hitherto undocumented consequences of what we adopt. And I'm not sure about that. But I think it's going very well. I read at research.no – because as Kari Kjønaas Kjos mentioned earlier today, we Google – that it is about. 100 birth injuries every year in Norway, including: due to lack of foetal monitoring, misinterpretation, lack of qualified staff and lack of knowledge. This is what this law is all about: greater knowledge, competent staff and choices based on facts. And I think it's this whole spectrum, also in connection with birth, that's important. I was asked to say something about the ombudsman role when the new city council in my hometown met for training. Then I started with a book written by Trude Trønnes-Christian. She has a brother who has a developmental disability. The title of this book is "I'll raise my hand for you". Then we can go to the municipalities, where very many of us have been, and are, politicians: how are we going to implement the NOU on the same line, about the rights of people with developmental disabilities? How are we going to make sure that parents don't have to spend their time fighting a system? Well, the coercion reform, we have to pat our hands on it. It shall be submitted by the Government in 2021. In addition, I actually think that Kari Kjenaas Kjos has a big point: I think there are many with her who decide to carry out a diagnosis regardless of any knowledge of it. I don't think we get the effect that many people are afraid of, in a country with high knowledge, where we're trying to make our decisions based on the knowledge that's available. So I have chosen to fall down on that I support the proposal that lies there, in its entirety, without reserveing myself against anything, but I repeat: it is not easy. I challenge, as I said before, several parties to take hold, both in terms of equivalency, the rights committee and the everyday life of those who have the gravel under their legs and fight the system in our municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2617	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has had the word twice earlier in and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2622	I'm going to use my last minute to talk about kids born with mitochondrial disease. It's little that hits as hard and brutally as it is. These kids don't grow up. They have prospects for a short life, with pain, suffering and early death. As Grimstad of the Left quite rightly pointed out, the Biotechnology Council has not recommended opening up treatment with mitochondrial donation, i.e. preventing children from being born with this atrocious disease, being allowed in Norway, but a minority, a competent minority in the Biotechnology Council, have said that they do not regard this type of treatment as significantly more experimental than other experimental treatment we provide to adult patients. We believe it gives hope, and most of the medical treatment was experimental at some point before it became safe. So our proposal is safely framed, and we cannot understand that all our common ethics is to be weakened by giving these families hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2627	No one should say that the questions we are discussing today are simple. It's not something you vote for or against on autopilot. It may have to be an exception for those who are following a government platform and who are voting against their conviction today. I want to link my vision and SV's view to two important starting points. It's not society, names or maybe older men who can best make the choice for women. It's the women's sail that's closest. It's those who are the best ones to assess whether they're seagoing, personal, and the family is able to carry out and care for children who will need more care than others, much more time, perhaps, perhaps, better finances, perhaps even a completely different family situation than they are in right now. The second starting point is all the abortion debates that have been up over the decades; I am so mature that I remember many of these debates. Very often we talked about the born life in relation to the unborn life. Some had a greater tendency to be more concerned with the unborn than the born. We have to have both thoughts in our heads at the same time. Can it be, for example, think that if we take better care of the born life, will we automatically also take better care of the unborn life? It is on this basis that we have delivered our Document 8 proposal today, which states that we should take better care of, provide better economy, provide better welfare, provide better care, provide better opportunities, simply, to those who choose to bear a child that has, for example. genetic abnormalities or chronic diseases. It is quite obvious and elementary to me that it will lower the level of need to ask for investigation at an early stage, check how the fetus is doing, and perhaps not use the new possibilities that a decision here today can give. It is essential that we strengthen the economy and well-being and give the mother and family the opportunity to better care, to spend more time, if they choose to give birth to a child and have not checked what stage they are in, what state they are in, what situation they are in, whether or not they choose to give birth and produce a child they have seen, for example. genetic abnormalities. These are very important questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2640	I trust that Norwegian women and families are able to make good, informed choices on behalf of themselves and their families. In the same way, I am confident that big-time representatives will be able to make good, informed choices on behalf of themselves and their conscience. Today there are several brave men and women in government parties who are just choosing to do so. I'm grateful for that. I will end by thanking you for a good debate. As the rapporteur-in-Office, I have also felt a certain responsibility to ensure that voting on this matter goes through in a proper way. That's why I have some questions about it. Finally, we choose to vote on egg donation separately, so that all the representatives can vote yes or no to it. And as a consequence, there will be some accompanying suggestions. So when egg donation is allowed, the Christian People's Party does not want a donor register to be established. I don't understand. If you first allow egg donation, it should be in the interest of the Christian People's Party to ensure that the state also establishes a national donor register, so that children who become members of a donor get the opportunity to seek out the donor's identity and get in touch with their biological origin. I don't understand why the Christian People's Party wants to vote against the doctor deciding which donor to use. If the Christian People's Party had its will on it, how else would the donor's choice be made if it wasn't for a treating doctor to do it? And last but not least to the intrusion of egg donation: the Progress Party promotes a minority proposal, proposal No. 1, that there shall be a prohibition on embryo donation and double donation, and that prohibition shall be truly against the Christian People's Party. So that means that the Christian People's Party adds up to a more liberal line than the Advance Party in this frame. They are as liberal as the Left and believe that it should almost be a release by whom to accept egg donation in Norway. If you support the framework of the Progress Party in proposal No. 1) to introduce a ban on embryo donation and dual donation — that is precisely when it is intended to ensure that the child has a genetic connection with at least one of his parents. If the Christian People's Party really wants to vote against it, they're obviously much more liberal than I thought. Then they might as well vote for any other proposal as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2655	There are several people who address this that there are problems and dilemmas no matter what position you land on, and I fully agree with that. But we can do something to reduce those dilemmas. During this last period we have had some markers here in the Storting where I believe the majority has failed. It concerns the human rights of people with disabilities, what is called the CRPD. SV has proposed that it be included in the Human Rights Act, as is the case for other human rights in Norway. The majority have voted in favour of this. I don't know why, but it's a pretty serious signal to send that it's not equal human rights. I can mention the system of user-controlled personal assistance, where it is still possible to scald and choose with it in the municipalities, they can decide how it should be. The government has opposed making a regulation, opposing the fact that the system should be handled as an aid under the guise of the people, so that it is similar to those who need it, regardless of the municipality in which they live. This concerns the care allowance issue, as I mentioned in my own language, and the right to be refurbished, if you or the child have a disability, and the right to relief. All of these things are addressed in our proposals, and I hope now that there is a unanimous increase that is going to join those proposals, because they are necessary if we are to achieve what everyone now says we agree on. But it was the representative of Navarsete's post that made me want to take the floor. She signaled that she was concerned about the ongoing evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. That is absolutely necessary, also in order to be able to say what should not be lawful. Today, for example, early ultrasound legal, but there's something you have to make sure to pay for the seam. That means that the techniques we are discussing today are legal, and it has all been agreed on, or at least a large majority have agreed on them. We can face these dilemmas in the future as well. Should the technique be legal or should it be illegal? Are we going to facilitate everyone, or are there going to be an offer just for those who have the money to pay for it? That's absolutely necessary, because here technology is going fast, and it's ethical dilemmas. What I'm quite clear, however, is that I never think it's a dangerous way to deny people information that is available about themselves. I don't think that's a dangerous way for any solutions to the ethical dilemmas we're facing. I am absolutely convinced that one of our important tasks here is to prevent Sennabans, and we are doing so by voting with the majority today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2666	Neighbors' seats said this was about values. The grave of the Christian People's Party said that for the Christian People's Party this is a battle of values. I also hope for an understanding and respect that it's about values, also for us who've ended up on the other side of these questions. Then the Horseman from the Christian People's Party insisted that the Biotechnology Act was made a matter of urgency, and that it went over the stick and stone. Navarsete said we should vote on proposals that are not properly worked out and heard. I have to say that I have enormous respect for the representatives of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Advance Party who have been involved in these proposals and have provided a very good check on how to design legal clauses. It's been two years since we dealt with a report on the Biotechnology Act here in this Chamber, and no one should be surprised at what the Workers' Party's view is here today, based on that treatment. So I don't think another hearing would have done anything for my party's vision. It's a vision that's been known for over two years, and we've got a lot of footage in the process of dealing with these questions. So the Count of the Christian People's Party talked about the right of children to know their origins and where they came from. I fully agree that it has a meaning. But he then concluded that it was a defeat. Well, that's his interpretation. But that's how we're now proposing to treat egg donation in the same way as sperm donation. I have not seen or heard the Christian People's Party take the fight against sperm donation, where there is a similar challenge. There is even a proposal today to lower the age limit to 15 for those who would want to know who was the donor, when they get so old. So values in this case are also equality for me, that's female health, that's the right to know, and then in some cases there's also the right to knowledge that can actually save the life of the fetus, like in cases of twin-twin-transfusion syndrome. For me, the values are not worse than those of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have chosen to base themselves on this matter, a matter that has many ethical assessments that have been challenging to decide on. But I am very sure that along with my party, I have chosen what is right from our ideology, what our political views should be in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2679	It was the discussion of the NIPT test that made me need to take the floor, because it is obvious that more people believe that today's Biotechnology Act is a barrier to offering NIPT testing in Norway. It's not, it's not a law issue. It is the proposal for Decision XIII that will in the event of an NIPT test be introduced to all pregnant women in Norway today. So it's important, because many people have said that this is a test that will give the answer: yes, this is a test that is equal to any other test that will give the answer. But it's also a test with quite major challenges. It will also give a lot of false positive answers. There will be very many pregnant women in Norway who will be informed through the NIPT test that they have a foetus that is likely to have developmental abnormalities, where this will not be the case. This means that when an extension of this test is made to all pregnant women in Norway, all those with positive responses will either have to make a decision on an uncertain basis or, as is the case today, they will have to go on taking a water test or a morcine test to obtain a safer response. A morcoa sample and a feed water test, all of which are aware, involve an increased risk of spontaneous abortion. This means that if you introduce what the Storting suggests today — in fact, offering all pregnant women a screening through a blood test that gives an uncertain response — there will be very many pregnant women in Norway who, with completely unproblematic pregnancy, will get an answer that the foetus has a developmental disorder, which will in turn lead to a rather intensive test, such as the morcoma test and the foetal water test, with an increased risk of abortion. This is a question that has not been professionally investigated and is not professionally recommended by any of the authorities responsible for carrying out such assessments. Neither methodological nor prioritisation has been assessed. The size goes in and makes a verbal decision to apply a method without the usual investigation. The amendments adopted today have been investigated. They have been widely discussed, and the Ministry has made itself fully available to the majority of the Grand Duchy to provide legal assistance. However, the question of the NIPT test has not been investigated, and it could have quite significant consequences when, in fact, one in Norway introduces a screening programme for all pregnant women, without knowing the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2692	I will not go further into the need to investigate some of these measures until they are implemented. Several have tried to thank for a long and good debate; it was well Moflag that started with it, but I will try again. I feel that the debate has highlighted the various themes of biotechnology. It has been marked by respect and, to a large extent, by the recognition of the different positions of the different positions. It shows the strength of democracy that we can take the debate – now we have been on for more than five hours – and this is an important law. No one has a monopoly in politics. Everyone may be right, and everyone may be wrong, and the debate of course addresses the major disagreements. But we have to remember that a number of changes are adopted unanimously, and everyone agrees that it is high time that a person modernises the law after 16 years. We're also going to take that with us, so it's not left that you've only been arguing for five hours. I would like to make a brief explanation of vote. We are voting in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, in order to prevent it from being opened for double donation and embryo donation. We will also support proposal No. 4, from the Center Party, which is right from the government's billing proposal, as it is natural for us to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2701	This is a difficult question. I have a lot of understanding of the different views, but I have to say that I react a little when you see it so that those who mean something else are for a sort society. For approx. A year ago, I was standing here on Down's syndrome-day with a lot of kids with Down's syndrome, and it was a great experience standing here in the Storting. Some of them were even on the pulpit, so we were afraid that we would have to talk afterwards from the president because they were allowed to do something that you normally don't get to do when you're in this room, but it was a great experience. I believe that all people are unique, all people should be respected, and I'm a little provoked that some people think that by opening up to what we're doing now, you want to sort out some. It's at least something I take a great distance from, as the representative of a party that's concerned that all people are unique, and all people should be respected. So it's also a little special that you encourage someone to vote in line with their own conscience and conviction, while at the same time blocking others from the same possibility. I think it is a bit strange, and I am also not sure that it has worked as intended. A person who has meant a lot to me in politics is John Ingolf Alvheim. When he was in this house, he was a pretty old man -- a good, older man -- I can't say old, it's wrong, but an older man. He was also very Christian and concerned about value issues, but he was one of them at this house at the time that was most concerned with the possibilities offered by the Biotechnology Act. I think that's important. He was concerned about value issues, he was concerned about the Christian values, but he actually believed that it was about helping all people in the best possible way using new technology. I believe that biotechnology offers many opportunities, and I believe that Mehmet was one of the examples that showed how important it was to take advantage of the possibilities it offers. With such a person in mind, as one of the people you've followed, and who you think had good values and good attitudes, but also great respect for using the opportunities offered by biotechnology, I'm going to vote in line with what the Progress Party has decided. But I fully agree that there are many dilemmas and many challenges. I have finally chosen to end there. I'm concerned that we're going to have a society where there's room for everyone, and I think you can still have that with what we're doing now. I have great respect for people and parents who can make the right and good choices for their future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2712	The representative, Carl-Erik Grimstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2717	The representative of Kjerkol spent his last minute in this debate talking about mitochondria donation. I'm going to do that, too. She said that this is an experimental treatment, and of course I agree with that. It's highly experimental. But some people would say that there is a limit between experimenting on a standard medical basis – in the case of corona, for that matter – and experimenting with the human genetic material over generations. And that's what it's talking about in this context. Now the Workers' Party is drawing a little closer to this case by the representative Tuva Moflag says that this is just a request decision. Well, that's a special definition of request decision. But I want to ask the Council of State to notice that in this way it is pushing this over to the government to investigate. But then, of course, the concept of all power in this hall becomes quite meaningless.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2725	I said in my post earlier that sometimes we have to in this room take over us how the world is out there, and I'll repeat that. For women, early ultrasound is taking place today, but that offer is unevenly distributed, and it is not offered through the public. But if we were to offer it through the public, which I hope we will adopt today, along with the NIPT test, we can save lives, provide the woman with security and information and save many women for the strain it is with late abortion. That means a lot to me. Women travel abroad today to assist in fertilisation and egg donation, and then it is high time that they received that offer in Norway, in the good Norwegian health service, without being perceived as criminals. If it is done in Norway, the child will also get to know his biological parents. But it chooses the Christian People's Party to ignore when they talk about children's rights. It was the representative of Gruvan who made me take the floor again, because he talked about the rights of children. I respect that there are different views in this matter, but I can't let it stand the impression that SV is not concerned with children's rights, because we have taken the positions we have here. Because through these changes, we're just opening up that strongly wanted children are being put into the world, and I'm absolutely sure that they're in line with children's rights. So the fight against the so-called sorting society is not in the womb, it is not carried on the shoulders of every woman. It's a fight we fight together in everyday politics. And the fight for children's rights, even for those with disabilities, stands every day in politics, in society. That is why I hope that the Christian People's Party and the other parties here will vote in favour of the proposals that SV today has promoted for a universally designed society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2732	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2737	We have had a good debate, and I will end by commending all the parties here. Debate and conflict take time, but we must not forget that all parties in the Health and Welfare Committee are proposing two important things together. We are proposing an investigation into the market for genetic self-testing, and we are proposing a law to ensure that genetic testing of children outside the health system is banned. It is important, and SV is proud and happy that we can change the policy so that we can get better privacy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2742	This is a historic day. The size should now make many important decisions. Many of these decisions will apply from this summer, as NIPT to all. But it's precisely because this matter is so important, that I have reason to believe that all parties actually get involved in the various proposals it is to be voted on, and since the Christian People's Party did not take the floor after my previous post, I will have to give the Christian People's Party one last opportunity to explain. They've been breathing in and out today talking about how important it is that children have a genetic relationship with their parents, that children grow up with their genetic parents. But when the Progress Party is proposing a ban on embryo donation and double donation, the Christian People's Party is voting against. They want to add to what they've been talking to throughout the debate: that children should have no genetic relationship with their parents, because they're against the prohibition we're proposing. It surprises me, and I will ask the Christian People's Party to come and explain why they want to vote in this way. As regards donation, the Progress Party proposes the establishment of a national donor register. On what basis has the Christian People's Party chosen to go against a national donor register that just ensures that, at the latest when it reaches the age of 15, the child can get to know his donor's identity and make contact? It seems to me that the Christian People's Party has not intervened in this matter, has not done the necessary laborer and does not even know how they are going to vote today. But this should be settled by now before the end of the day, because otherwise you, the Christian People's Party, are the most liberal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2751	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2764	The size goes to voting. Case No. 1-12 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e2778	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 4, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 5-7, from Sveinung Stenland on behalf of the Right, the Center Party, the Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 8, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red the proposals No 9 and 10, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party The President will state that voting on this matter will be partially thematic, and at the request of the Committee, the President will refer to some of the issues. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote measures that may help to reduce the ability of the Norwegians to avail themselves of surrogati services abroad and to continue the national ban on surrogati’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate how criminal action against individuals entering into commercial surrogacy agreements with a surrogacy mother, or against an establishment providing surrogacy services, can be designed in order not to affect the children being born’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3413	It is votered over A I new § 2-3 a. The Labour Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3427	The President will inform that this vote – and subsequent ones – deals with the authorisation of assisted conception for solitude. It is votered over A I § 2-2 and § 2-3, first paragraph. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3443	This vote deals with assisted fertilization for lonely. Alternatively, the A I section 2-6, first, third, fourth and fifth subparagraphs, and proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 2 to 6 are replaced by the following: § 2-6 Treatment decision The decision to treat for assisted fertilisation is taken by a doctor. The decision shall be based on the medical and psychosocial assessments of the couple. Attention shall be paid to the care of the couple and to the best interests of the child. If necessary to supplement the information provided by the couple itself, the doctor may obtain relevant information from public authorities in order to carry out the assessment of the care of the couple and the best interests of the child after the first paragraph. Such information may include, inter alia, information on the health, finances, housing and the length of time spent by the couple. Acquiring information subject to the obligation of professional secrecy requires the consent of the data subject. If the doctor is in doubt about the care of the couple, the doctor may request an evaluation of the care of a departmental body. After receiving the assessment, the doctor decides whether to treat the couple with assisted fertilisation. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the examination of requests for assisted fertilisation.» The Right, Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3479	The second paragraph of Section 2-6 on assisted fertilisation is added to A. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3493	It is votered over A I § 2-5, first and second paragraphs, third paragraph, last sentence and § 2-14, third paragraph – also on assisted fertilisation for lone. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3507	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right, the Center Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New § 2-20 is replaced by the following: Unfertilised eggs and ovaries may only be stored when the legal conditions for assisted fertilisation are fulfilled, or if a woman has a medical condition that may lead to early infertility or is subjected to treatment that could impair fertility.’ The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3524	The President will state that this vote concerns the authorisation of egg donation. It is votted over A I § 2-18. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3540	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with legislative proposals to allow egg donation from women undergoing IVF treatment and consenting to donation, with the same strict rules as for sperm donation. Donor shall be unknown and non-anonymous.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3555	The size continues to vote on the theme of egg donation. It is votered over A I § 2-4 and § 3-4, second paragraph. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3572	It is votered over A I § 2-8, § 2-9, § 2-10, § 2-12 and § 2-19 – also about egg donation. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3586	The size continues with the theme related to egg donation, and it is alternatively matched between the A I section 2-7 of the adjustment and proposal No. 5, from the Right, the Center Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 2 to 7 are replaced by the following: § 2 to 7 Parent’s obligation to provide information and the child’s right to information about the sperm donor Parents who have had a child by means of donor semen shall, as soon as it is advisable, inform the child accordingly. The person born after assisted conception by donor semen has the right, at the age of 15 years, to obtain information on the identity of the semen donor. A donor register shall assist the child with this task. The doctor shall provide couples receiving assisted fertilisation with donated semen with information on the age from which the child will be able to obtain information on the donor’s identity.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3601	The size continues to vote on the theme of egg donation. Alternatively, the second paragraph of Section 2-16 of the A I and proposal No. 6, from the Right, the Center Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 2-16, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: fertilised eggs shall be stored until the date of birth of the female egg is 46 years of age. The woman may consent to a shorter period of storage.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3620	It is votered over Section A of Section 2-15, which also deals with egg donation. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3634	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Articles 2 to 15 shall be replaced by the following: In case of assisted fertilisation to lonely, the egg must have been obtained from the lonely woman herself. In case of assisted fertilisation to pairs, simultaneous egg and semen donation or donation of fertilised eggs shall not be permitted.’ The right, the centre party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3658	It is votered over A I §2-17 – still linked to egg donation. The Central Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3672	Hereafter, the voting will apply to other paragraphs of A I. It is votered over § 2-11, § 2A-1 second and third paragraphs, § 2A-2, § 2A-3, § 2A-4, § 2A-5, § 2A-6, § 2A-7, § 2A-9, § 3-2 second paragraph, § 3-4 first paragraph, § 4-2 second paragraph, § 6-1, § 6-2 second paragraph, § 6-3. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3688	It is voted over A I § 7-1, first paragraph. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3702	The rest of A I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3721	This vote concerns the entry into force of the Act. Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 9 and 10, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The law enters into force on 1 July 2020, except for the provisions of the first sentence of § 2-4, § 2-7 and the first sentence of the second paragraph, § 2-8, § 2-9, § 2-10, § 2-11, third and fourth paragraphs, § 2-12, § 2-14, third paragraph, second sentence, § 2-15, § 2-16, second paragraph, § 2-18, § 2-19, first paragraph, and § 3-4, second paragraph, which enter into force when the king decides, but not later than 1 January 2021.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that non-invasive prenatal tests are allowed in Norway from 1 July. [[NIPT]] 2020.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3747	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3761	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. I The government is asking the government to ensure that, in the future, the biotechnology law can be evaluated more dynamically and continuously in order to keep up with the rapid development of biotechnology. II The government asks the government to amend the Medical Birth Register Regulation with a view to recording all treatments with assisted fertilisation in the Medical birth register, regardless of outcomes. III The government is asked to work to amend or understand the Biomedical Convention in order to ensure that mitochondrial donation can be permitted in Norway when the method is safe and professionally sound. IV The size asks the government to come back to Stortinget with an investigation into the market for genetic self-testing, which will provide a basis for regulatory regulation of this market. The investigation must take into account, inter alia, the protection of privacy, the right to own health data and the health consequences of misleading test results. VT The government is asking for legislative proposals to ensure that genetic testing of children outside the healthcare system is banned. VI The size asks the government to develop guidelines for compensation for the donation of germ cells, reflecting the load and time spent by the donor. Compensation is set at a moderate level, which does not drive up the overall level of compensation in Nordic countries. Documented travel expenses are also covered. VII The government is asking the government to ensure that employers are exempted from the obligation to cover sick pay for women who want to donate eggs. VIII The government is asked to design a priority guide for the donation of eggs, which largely harmonises with the priority guide for the donation of semen. IX The government is asked to provide a review of pre-implantation diagnostics and diagnostics conditions and guidelines so that they can be viewed in a coherent manner and provide a coherent and coherent range of services for women and families with a particular risk of serious disease or harm to the foetus. The review shall focus on suffering and loss of quality of life through relief and life-prolonging treatment in the review of the conditions for obtaining PGD. The Government is requested to propose the necessary legislative changes as a result of this review. X The government asks the government to ensure that ultrasound with supplementary studies capable of detecting serious disease or harm to the foetus becomes an offer to all women in the first trimester through public maternity care. XI The government is asked to ensure that the age limit for offering foetal diagnostics is lowered from women > 38 years of age by the future to women > 35 years of age by the future. XII The government asks the government to ensure that non-invasive prenatal tests are offered to all women who are subject to foetal diagnostics, or in the case of early ultrasound findings with supplementary studies, regardless of the age of the woman. [[NIPT]] XIII The government is asked to ensure that non-invasive prenatal est is allowed in Norway for all pregnant women. [[NIPT]] XIV The government is asking the government to ensure that Norway is actively working in international contexts to combat the exploitation of women in the international surrogati industry. XV The government is asked to incorporate the economic impact of the changes in the Biotechnology Act into the State budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3832	It is votated over B III, which relates to mitochondrial donation. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3846	It is votered over B VI and VII for compensation for the donation of germ cells. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3860	It is votered over B VIII, which concerns the prioritisation guide for egg donation. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3875	It's over BX, which is about early ultrasound. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3889	The bid for the NIPT test is contested by B XII. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3903	It is argued that the NIPT test is allowed in Norway for all pregnant women. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3917	It's going to go over B XIV. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3931	It shall be weighed over B I, II, IX, XI, XV. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3946	It is said to be over B IV and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3956	Let's go to case No. 26, which is recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e3997	This proposal is proposed to the Energy and Environment Committee. Mr Halleland has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4004	The Party wishes to maintain the proposal for the accelerated procedure of Document 8:114 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4009	The representative then requested that the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure (c) be reviewed by the representatives for at least one day and then entered on the agenda for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4014	SV supports Halleland's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4019	It is then to state that the President shall order the matter to be referred to the Energy and Environment Committee as there is no provision in the proposal which requires that committee proceedings cannot be carried out and that the Committee may work expeditiously if the case so requires. It is wetted over the procedure. An alternative is to vote between the president's proposal on committee procedure and the representative Terje Halleland's proposal on urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4033	Further references were made: 5th@item: inlistbox Representative's proposals for changes to the regulations necessary for the police record of school and kindergarten employment (Document 8:113 S) by Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Silje Hämdal and Roy Steffensen [[353]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : Sent to the Education and Research Committee. The way things were handled was continued on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4055	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4062	The Socialist Left Party has put forward several proposals on what they call ‘correcting unfair health cuts’. A proposal is to reverse cut in free physiotherapy for certain groups. It was during the treatment of the 2017 state budget that this legislation was amended and the so-called diagnosis list for free physiotherapy was terminated. At the same time, part 2 was reduced, and the age limit for monitoring expenditure was raised from 12 to 16 years. Now the government has announced that it will be working on combining the items 1 and 2, which will provide better protection arrangements for those groups that have large real estate costs for health services. As a result, the government will not open a new display system based on specific diagnostics. In the setting, the Labour Party, SV and the Centre propose to carry out an evaluation of the escalation plan for habilitation and rehabilitation, in this context the consequences of discontinuing the diagnosis list for physiotherapy. So to the proposal to introduce a free dental check for older people over 75 years: this was a scheme introduced by the red-green government, but was closed in the autumn of 2013. A joint committee refers to the decision making by the government to bring forward a case of strengthening Norwegian dentistry with the aim of smoothing social inequalities, and how we can more effectively help those who do not have the financial means to carry out the necessary dental treatment. The Committee also points out that the government has stated that it complies with this Decision in the context of the follow-up to NOU 2018: 16 on the principle of priority in the municipal health and care services. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV have a comment that older people who are currently entitled to free dental treatment are not able to do so because there is too much information about this. This is a county responsibility. SV also proposes a running review of the ABE-cut, and at this point, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV present a proposal to ask the government to protect the hospital sector for the ABE-cut. In the government budget for 2020, the government proposes to convert the grant to orthodontic treatment. In retrospect, there was a piece of work in which a change was proposed, but more children would be entitled to treatment, and everyone would receive an individual assessment. During the treatment of the State budget, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV proposed to ask the government to base this technical report in order to ensure that children with a clear need for dental regulation will still receive support. With that, I'm going to deal with the suggestions that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4083	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4088	The working party is pleased that SV puts the lights on the government's unfair health code. This is experienced in the country. One by one, arrangements and offers are deteriorated. I hope most of them this framework, have not voted for the right-hand government. SV will probably explain the cuts nicely. I would therefore like to pay particular attention to health, which is initially in another committee, the Labour and Social Committee, but it is a health issue at the highest level. Now only children up to 10 years of age are getting support to see if they have significantly reduced vision. In the past, it was up to 18 years old, and children suffer from this. Optics Hedegaard in Haugesund tells many sad stories. One of them I got yesterday. There are children who need glasses, where reimbursement requirements have been sent, but the glasses are not picked up – because the bill today can be refunded without picking up the glasses. There is a weakness in the law that needs to be corrected. Children are being harmed by this. Glasses stay with the opticians, and reimbursement has been paid to parents. It is difficult for me to understand that this should simplify an already good system, where the refund claim was previously sent from the optician and not from the many supervisors. This is crazy politics. The government does not fool gluten allergy sufferers and revenmatics. Demente can possibly trick you, but not their relatives. When was it a political goal to remove day-to-day activity for the elderly with dementia? It's actually been for this government, like all the other cuts they've made. Get it, whoever wants it. We're on our way to a society with greater differences between the weakest and the strongest, a society I'm elected to fight with beaks and claws to work against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4101	The government will treat several patients in hospitals, improve the quality of treatment throughout the healthcare system and reduce waiting times. That's our goal. Therefore, money for hospitals has also been a priority of the government for many years. So we also know that the economy will be demanding in the future. We're going to spend more money on health, but low oil prices, the corona situation and fewer employees per pensioner will lead to that we need to prioritise harder in the future. It applies in all areas. In the past, only persons who had their disease on the diagnostic list were offered free physiotherapy. In the right, it is true that the patient’s need for treatment is to decide whether to receive free physiotherapy, not the diagnosis itself. The change has given a fairer distribution between different patient groups. At the same time, the government has removed the propensity for children up to 16 years of age. Dental health is also about priorities. Right-wing believes it is better to prioritise patients with poor dental health rather than give free dental health to all over 75 years regardless of their financial or dental health. It's about prioritizing, and then the Right believes we should give priority to the weakest and those who have the strongest needs, first. The red tape and efficiency reform was introduced in 2015. It presupposes that all State activities implement measures to become more effective. However, it is quite wrong to refer to the ABE reform as a cut for hospitals, because the specialist health service has grown in the financial framework every year, even after the ABE reform has been withdrawn. Hospital economy has been a priority of this government since the first government budget in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4114	If there's something we know about health and economic and social situation, it's very close. We know that whoever has little money also has a much greater risk of experiencing sickness and poor health. That's why SV disagrees with the government. When it comes to finding ways to save, they go systematically after people who are ill, have poor health and are unemployed. While at the other end of the scale, the government always has a lot of money to go on. There you are able to distribute billions to people who have more than their own on the dry, to say so, and who should contribute more to the community. Instead, we discussed the Biotechnology Act. Now we're discussing developmentally disabled people, people who have amputated, and others who have major problems, are going to get free physical therapy. Yes, there are many more that should be included in that list, and it was quite possible to do so, to add more to the list and give more access to the necessary treatment – without removing it for any of the listed ones, or standing on the list, and requiring treatment. And now, after the coronary shutdown, this problem will increase. Dental check for over 75 years of age: The age group that is over 75 today and the next few years has problematic dental health. Some of them have good advice, that's quite right, but very many have very bad advice, and dental health is very expensive. So at least being able to get a check of their teeth isn't that much, to say it like that. And it would have been very wise to have it done, because people save themselves for quite a lot of other expenses and problems if they manage to keep their teeth out of old age. Then it's the famous efficiency jokes. It's a way of pushing the responsibility for the tight frameworks you have down into the system and not taking responsibility for what's being cut. I was in on it when I was in the local government many years ago. It was like this: Save three million, but don't let it go out on anyone, and then the administration got it down their ears and was going to figure out what it was, and then they were going to get blamed for the cuts that were made. I respect that someone thinks that the budgets are too high, but then they get to be so kind and also put the cuts on the table, so that we can take a stand on the actual cuts and take responsibility for them. SV will correct these health cuts. That is why I am addressing the suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4127	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4132	I am pleased that the government had completed the so-called diagnosis list for free physiotherapy from 2017. This appeared to be very unfair for users who did not have a diagnosis on the list, and there was not necessarily a correlation between the diagnosis and the need for physiotherapy. Persons with a diagnosis that was not on the list could have more severe plagues and a greater need for physiotherapy than persons with a diagnosis that was on the list. I believe it is a much more fairer system to shield users from excessive health costs through self-employment than through the name of a diagnosis. The Stoltenberg government introduced a free dental examination for over 75 years of age. However, I think it was more important to have targeted efforts against those who have the worst dental health and special problems, and therefore also the large costs of dental health. I am particularly proud of the combined treatment offer we got established for victims of torture or assault and people with severe anxiety about dental treatment. In the nomination, the majority agree with the Health Directorate that people with home care must retain their statutory rights to dental care, even if new technology replaces visits by home care staff. This issue makes it apparent that rights to services based on the receipt of other healthcare can create difficulties. This is one of the challenges we need to consider in the future. For dental regulation to children and young people, there is no current government policy to reverse the tightening that was carried out from 1 January this year. I am pleased that a Joint Committee has taken note of the new criteria introduced in the 2020 legislation and that emphasis has been placed on whether the lowest priority conditions pose a risk to functional problems or problems with mental or social mastery. The government introduced the red tape and efficiency reform in 2015. The ABE reform presupposes that all State activities implement measures to become more effective. It is not right that the efficiency requirement of this reform is a cut for hospitals. On the contrary, the government has prioritised hospitals in each state budget submitted since 2013, and hospitals have been growing in their financial framework every year. In the 2020 budget, the hospital budget was strengthened by 1.58 billion. After the withdrawal of the ABE reform, and of course, it is now further strengthened in the context of the revised budget. If we are to ensure a sustainable health service in the future, we need to make the best possible use of the skills of our employees, take advantage of the opportunities offered by the technology, and organise our tasks better. The reform of the ABE supports these very objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4147	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4153	I have a question about dental regulation or orthodontic treatment for children. The Council of State referred to the new tariffs. But after the government budget was presented, which the Health Directorate had developed in cooperation with the trade unions, she had a different device than the government put forward in the government budget – it didn't go that far, and it was more acceptable out there. My question is whether this is the piece of work and the recommendation that is now being made for the conversion of social benefits to orthopedic treatment, or whether that is what the government is making in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4160	What was the basis for the arrangement of this was the technical investigation that we had started, and that the Dental Association was also involved in the work on. It was launched before the state budget was submitted, but we needed to present it in the state budget, and the savings we reported in the state budget, we expect in 2020 as a result.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4165	But now it's like what the piecework did, had a different savings as a consequence, and at least if you look a few years in time, the government's proposal had a much higher number of how many millions you thought you would save on this, while the piecework had a much lower number. Is this the case that the savings measure is at hand, or is the Council of State now merely talking about the state budget last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4170	There is always uncertainty about the estimates that go further in time, although we also report them in the State budget. But what I was talking about is what was supposed to be the effect now in 2020. Then we'll make new assessments of what's going to be the effects for every year that goes. In this area, we've pretty much seen that once we've made these kind of changes, the savings actually have become larger than the calculations in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4175	Too many, dental health is a big challenge. If we're talking about social injustice in health, maybe the dental field is one of the most neglected in that way. Now the Council of State spoke of him being particularly proud of the offer given to torture and assault victims, and the Council of State should have for strengthening the appropriations there. At the same time, waiting times are a lot of places in the country too long. It shows a written answer that the Council itself has given me – up to two years may take before you get a proper treatment as you need it. Has the Council taken action to do something about the kind of waiting times in dental care for some of the most vulnerable?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4182	Yeah, it's just to prioritize this group. We've done that in several budgets in a row, building up this offer, just to make sure that more people get help. It turned out when we established this offer, that there was a great need, a need that has increased. Therefore, it has been important for the government to strengthen this offer in several consecutive budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4187	I guess I didn't get an answer to that challenge, that there are terribly long waiting times for some patients, depending on where they live in the country. At least there is something that needs to be followed up in order for them to get a real offer. Another case in the dental field concerns the proposal for a representative who was about strengthening Norwegian dental health, where there was a majority in this room before the Christian People's Party joined the government, and it is starting to be a while ago. It is still not delivered on it. From the FreeFactor's examination, it could be explained that almost one of the three had failed to go to the dentist for the necessary dental treatment because it was perceived that you could not afford it. That kind of thing took up the employee party's proposal. I understand that in this period of the coronary virus, this kind of thing might take a little while, but still, it's probably been a half year since that proposal was adopted here. When can we expect the government to come up with a case and follow-up to the decision taken in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4196	I have to get back to that. After all, we are reporting on the follow-up to the majority decisions taken in the Storting in the annual budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4201	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4208	I have a very strong sense of what SV has mentioned in the representative proposal here. In many of our alternative budgets, we have tried by the Labour Party to correct the unfair cuts that have been made, and one of the areas in which the government has repeatedly tightened up is precisely in the area of dental health. I don't think we can be satisfied with a situation where you can look at the teeth of people what they have in their wallet. Year after year we see that the reimbursement rates have either remained still or have been sub-regulated. The tooth adjustment support was dramatically cut at the last time. SV has a point about dental check-ups for them over 75 years, as we see that this government has removed. In the past, the contractions have been calculated to reach a total of 500 million. kr, although the total reimbursement costs in the field during the period have increased, naturally enough – it has occurred largely in all fields in terms of wage and price growth and what has been. I think it is very serious that we see that with the worst of advice they drop the necessary dental treatment to a greater extent. It is about falling outside a health service that ensures in all other areas that it is not your wallet to decide whether to get the health service you need. The free trade movement had a case about Mette at 44, who had no eleven teeth in his mouth, and who had to chew the gum, and who had pulled one and one tooth after another. It is this way – and it has also been pointed out by the poor network of Norway during the budgetary procedure in the Health and Welfare Committee – that a good number of people cannot afford to repair their teeth, they choose to pull them instead, because it is much cheaper than a filling. We can't have it that way. We can't have it so that almost 50 pst. with an income of less than 300000 kroner not to go to a dentist, and 14 pst. they have taken out loans to carry out the necessary dental treatment based on the study carried out by the Free Trade Movement relatively recently. Therefore, the Workers' Party is impatient in getting the case about strengthening Norwegian dental health, where we get a proper review of reimbursement schemes, simplifications there, but not least manage to hit, so that people have the opportunity to have a necessary dental treatment. It's about not falling outside our society, and it can even be about the opportunities to get a job, to stand in a job. It has a great deal of joy for the individual to do so, and not least it is also a gain for society. In addition, it's about dignity, and there are several of the elements in the matter we are dealing with today, which are about dignity, which is about we need to spend the big money to make sure that people have as many opportunities as possible in our health field.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4219	SV has made proposals to correct unfair health cuts. The government cut free physical therapy for victims, people with developmental disabilities, people who have amputated, and all the others who were on the list. Now they have to pay for this important treatment. We can choose – tax cuts for the rich or help people who need it the most. The government and the Progress Party are opposed to reintroducing free physical therapy. SV vote in favour. The government cut a dental check for over 75 years of age. We can choose – tax cuts for the rich, or help the elderly who need it the most. The government and the Advance Party vote against dental check for the elderly. SV vote in favour. The Progress Party has promised that older people will be well cared for. Perhaps the Advancement Party has forgotten that older people also need good health care? The government has cut the hospitals across the country with cheese-happiness. We can choose to cut the hospitals and spend the money on tax cuts for the rich, or we can cut the ABE cuts. The government and the Progress Party are opposed to protecting the hospitals against cheese-happiness. SV vote in favour. The government has weakened the system for children and young people who need dental regulation. The government and the Progress Party agree to return the money to young people and children. SV vote for better help for children and young people. SV will correct unfair health cuts. The choice comes, and SV is ready for the resources not to go to the rich. We want to build a society for the many, not just for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4242	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox Case No. 15 and 16 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4272	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4279	I am the case rapporteur on a proposal for a regulation on representatives document 8:51 S for 2019-2020. I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation – so well that we actually managed to merge two issues and get to make some adjustments before the deadline. It was probably a matter of rapid treatment in Stortinget. The right-hand objective is to ensure good and dignified care for the elderly, adapted to individual needs. In the future, the age composition of the population will change, and the complexity of the response will increase. If we keep working just like today, we know that there won't be enough staff in the future to meet the needs that we know will come. Increased competence, changes in the organisation of services and increased use of welfare technologies shall contribute to improving quality and freedom of choice in care. It is the municipal sector that is to provide good care services to all citizens who need it. Older people shall be given the opportunity to master life longer, to be assured that they will receive good help when they need it, and to be able to help relatives without being worn out. With the right in government, we have had an increase in the appropriations for the municipalities. The municipal sector has been strengthened by about 30 billion. kr since 2013. The municipal sector has had good profits, and the number of municipalities registered on the ROBEK list is historically low. This has produced results. Since 2017, there has been an increase in annual work in municipal health and care services of 5,000 annual works. Although the figures from 2018 are not comparable for statistical reasons, we see that the sector is also growing in 2018. In 2008, the annual work effort was 121,000, in 2013 it was approximately. 123 000, and now it's at 143 000. Then we can add that it's a little unfair to compare, because the challenge picture is constantly changing, but it's wrong to say that it hasn't been added any more funds. The discussion will be about how to use them as best you can. Good care is not just about enough people. It's also about the right skills in the right place. Therefore, the Government Parties and the Advance Party have invested in basic, continuing and continuing training. With grants from Competence Grant 2020, nearly 14 000 care staff have taken part in basic or continuing training and more than 70000 employees have taken part in continuing training only in the period 2016-2018. Because this has been a success, we will continue to increase the level of competence of municipal health and care services at the end of today's plan. The new commitment to competence will be presented in the State budget for 2021. We know that if you increase your skills, people get better, and it's working better, and we know that it's the key to a future-oriented healthcare sector. We will also do everything we can to strengthen the health professionals in this, and we will facilitate more apprenticeships. All of this is related. We know that more and more people are affected by dementia. One of the things that can make everyday life more meaningful for these is having a good daily activity offer to go to. Therefore, we have also decided that municipalities should have an obligation to offer day-to-day activities to residents with dementia. Finally, a few words about the reform Life for the rest of your life: it is a content reform that was put forward a few years ago. It's about a lot of what these proposals deal with. We share the impatience after building the competences of the municipalities, and we actually have some consensus around the road further, but we need to build on competence, and we need to continue to strengthen the municipal health and care service in order to get a good offer to the elderly throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4304	I am proud to be the rapporteur on this important matter, dealing with a proposal from the Central Party for increased staffing and lower temporary employment in the municipal health and care services. Several parties are concerned about low staffing in hospitals, in home care and in all municipal health and care services. SV has previously proposed to ensure basic human rights and competence-based recruitment standards in the care of the elderly and other municipal care services, but the government and the Advance Party voted against. The Labour Party has promoted a proposal for a representative on a phasing-out plan for elderly care staff and measures to prevent dementia. In the setting for this case, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV agree on several proposals. In the vote on this matter, too, on the proposal from the Central Party, for which I am the rapporteur, we have three parties together. People in Norway know that hospitals and municipal health and care services need more people to work. In the three cases I have mentioned, SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have together made twelve proposals. The red-green parties promote different proposals, but the government parties and the Progress Party vote against all proposals aimed at improving care for the elderly. I'm disappointed. When the fight is between tax cuts for the rich and the elderly who need more care, tax cuts always win when the right parties rule. My friend Jan, who lives in a nursing home, is scared every day. He knows that health professionals are capable and good people, but they don't have the resources to help everyone when they need it most. SV will always be on the line to get more people to work in healthcare throughout permanent jobs. I refer to all the proposals on which SV is involved in both cases, on the proposal of the representative of the Central Party and on the proposal of the representative of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4321	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4326	I would like to focus on the proposal that we from the Workers' Party have made. The Institute of Public Health estimates that there are currently between 80 000 and 100 000 people with dementia in Norway. Loss of cognitive and motor functions and psychological additional symptoms such as anxiety and delusions lead to a lot of suffering for those affected. That's the way it is. 300,000 close relatives are also concerned. Many people experience gradually losing their loved ones, in addition to the fact that the burden of care is often heavy. And the challenge for people and society doesn't get any smaller in the future, as it looks obvious. By 2050 it could be twice as many with dementia as it was in 2015. In the future, a large number of people have to carry demanding care tasks — in their families, by health and care workers — and every day there are, in fact, an average of 36 violent incidents in Norwegian hospitals. Four out of five people living in Norwegian nursing homes have dementia, and it is about violence, threats and deportation against other cohabitants or employees. With our representative proposal, we in the Labour Party want to stress the importance and necessity of upgrading the care of elderly people in Norway, and we are working concretely on proposals and policies that will make a clear difference, we believe, both now and in the longer term. The working party will have a stepping-up plan for staffing and competence in the care of the elderly and measures to prevent dementia. We need to improve basic manning for many reasons, not least to avert and deal with such situations as I have described here, and to provide security for employees, the older seamen and their relatives. We are also carved out trailers of entire jobs and believe it has great value in very many ways. Cultural and social activities and physical activity can obviously prevent and limit the development of dementia. The cultural walking stick was a great action. When the appropriations became part of the narrow financial framework of the county councils, it went wrong. Now there are several sites in the country where volunteers are concerned, after responsibility for them has been transferred to the municipalities. Now we have faith in both municipalities and municipalities, but that's not how the government parties like to make it, that the local government sector is bubbling with money. No, it's not erased like that – the challenges are very great for many municipalities, which we see not least in our days. Professionals, local politicians, management of different kinds are struggling very much to give it the offer and the dignity that older caregivers need, and – let me add – actually also in many cases have a claim and perhaps not get, as they should. I would like to point out that this also applies to another group for which the municipality has a great responsibility: the disabled – unless the matter here has as its topic. I'm careful to remind you of it on all occasions when it doesn't seem directly debilitated. We have to see the disabled. There are also many elderly people who are disabled, and this may be a demanding combination. Good daily provision for people with dementia was strongly challenged in many municipalities that had been active in building up such offers, through government grant schemes and fissures with municipalities – at the latest with calls last autumn, if I do not remember faults. That money ended up in the municipal framework, so the municipalities that had really taken on a roof here, built up and got a lot and had good results, got the biggest challenges. But because this has meant so much and has been so good results, some of these municipalities have been able to find money elsewhere. But someone has found the money in the health and care sector, and then it really hurts someone else. And that's unfortunate. Should one bring a law that will apply throughout the country, a seafaring must put more money in the pot. Then we might have come out another way. Because when this happens, and when we're only halfway to the goal of 920 such day places for dementes, it goes wrong. I'll get back to that in the loop. Unfortunately, we have to wait until next year's elections before we are able to get an impact on what we are presenting today, because it's no, no, no all the way, but it's of a temporary nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4345	Would the representative perhaps like to comment on the Labour Party's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4350	Yeah, I'd love to. The representative Wilkinson well brought up some suggestions that we're on, but one proposal is just the Labour Party, and it's so brilliant that I'd like to be allowed to record that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4355	The representative Tore Hagebakken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4360	Of course, the intention of a contingency plan for elderly care staff and measures to prevent dementia is good at the outset. Nevertheless, there is a need to clarify some things that seem to have not been brought along by the proposers. When the Progress Party was in government, it increased the allocation to the municipalities, so that they can provide good care services for the elderly and others who need it – of course, if local politicians give priority to care in their municipality. In addition, there has been a contribution to a historical effort in the areas of health care, more annual work and increased skills of employees. A further strengthening of the quality and capacity of the service provision has also been provided in 2020. Older people must have a safe and dignified old age. We will get this for example. through grants to more and better places of care of the lucky day and a commitment to increased skills. Competence 2020 aims to contribute to a highly professional municipal care service and ensure that the sector has sufficient and not least competent staff. Several of the measures in Competencelift 2020 are designed to, or include, hospital staff and professional environments and contribute to the strengthening of competences and attitudes that are prejudicial to home abuse. The Progress Party is committed to the participation of people affected by dementia in good day-to-day activities. Daily activity offers make sense, it gives mastery, it gives good experiences for the individual and also relief for the relatives. The budget proposal from 2012 to 2019 provided for more than 8,900 day-to-day activities. Nevertheless, the grant has not been used to the extent that it is expected to be by the municipalities. That is precisely why the 2020 grant was transferred to the framework grant to municipalities, without the need for municipalities to apply for these funds. It also creates less bureaucracy and paper mills. But let me just stress that from January this year the municipalities have an obligation to offer day-time activities to residents with dementia. Finally, I would like to present the project of state funding for care services. All the funds granted in this experiment are earmarked and must therefore be used in the care services of the experimental community. This implies that the funds include, inter alia: improves quality and enhances the competence of employees. The municipalities participating in the experiment report even better user involvement and faster and better decisions on services for individuals. All municipalities participating in the project have had the opportunity to launch significant initiatives in the fields of competence development, prevention and welfare technologies. Extending the experiment with six municipalities will provide additional knowledge and experience on how to improve the quality of the care services as a whole, and these experiences will in turn contribute to improving the quality of other municipalities as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4376	The municipal care service faces major challenges. There is a lot of pressure on those added to the service. The health and care sector tops the statistics on sick leave in the Norwegian labour market, and the problem is greatest in municipalities. At the same time, municipalities have problems recruiting health and care services, and in KS's employer monitor for 2019, three out of four municipalities stated that it was «Gaske» or «Very» challenging to recruit nurses. A central demand from these trade unions has been the right to a whole set of fixed settings. According to the Norwegian Nursing Association, its full - time barometer was 42 pst. of all announced options in 2019 part-time settings. In addition, there will be a high watch tax on relatively low working hours for those added, which may make recruitment more difficult. At the same time, temporary employment in municipalities has increased sharply over the last few years. A study showed that the municipalities spent a total of 1.2 billion. SEK for renting in 2018. It was almost a double from 2012. Low and unstable manning also affects the quality of the services. Many municipalities have been looking for solutions to the problems resulting from low and unstable staffing in the health and care services. In some municipalities, a project has been carried out where one has transferred money from the temporary budget to increase basic staff. This means that the base crew is higher than the minimum level required to provide a defensive service, so it is not always necessary to install temporary workers in case of absence. Increased basic staffing makes it easier to offer whole and fixed options, and so it is part of the solution to the challenges of recruiting municipalities. Increases in basic staff also reduce the workload on those added and may contribute to lower sick leave. Reduced temporary use also means that users get fewer people to stay with, leaders will spend less time managing rents, and it's cheaper because the hourly cost for temporary workers is relatively high. Sveio and Sauherad are municipalities that have implemented or implement such projects to increase the full-time culture of the care and care units. We believe that Stortinget must help more municipalities dare to make similar investments, so that one can both increase basic staffing, get less temporary work and improve quality without costing more. We therefore propose that the government, through cooperation with the KS and the employee organisations, set up a national programme to increase basic staffing and recruitment to the municipal health and care service. It is important that the projects be locally anchored. To the representative proposal of the Workers' Party: the Centre Party is on the proposal to sort out and propose a new incentive scheme to create more day-to-day activities for older people in municipalities. We also make proposals for a back-up scheme for settings that can ensure increased multidisciplinary competence and more voluntary work at Norwegian hospitals and in the home country. This is a proposal that has already been made. We also support the proposal by the Labour Party on the own protection of elderly people with dementia with outstanding behaviour, but we have argued that this is an offer that must be fully financed by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4391	The government has contributed to a historic effort in the areas of health care, more annual work and increased competence of health and care workers. Figures from the SSB show a growth of more than 12000 annual shifts in the care service in the period 2017-2019. We have increased the appropriations allocated to the municipalities, including: to enable them to provide good care services to all those in need. By 2020, we have provided for a further strengthening of the quality and capacity of the service provision. Through the investment grant to lucky day care centres and a new grant to increase continuity, competence and activity, the government wants to provide good and safe services to the elderly. The Government and the KS have agreed to establish 19 health communities between municipalities and health enterprises. The aim is to create more coherent health and care services. Frequent elderly people are one of the target groups of the health communities. The government also follows up the news of ageing Life for the rest of its life – A quality reform for the elderly. The goal is that older ones can master life longer and have a safe, active, and worthy old age. Life throughout life is intended to help municipalities learn from each other and implement good solutions in activities and communities, food and meals, health care, the coherence of services and an age-friendly society. I expect the municipalities to now make plans where there is also activity and community. The municipalities that change in line with the reform will be prioritised by a number of relevant grant schemes from 2021. Furthermore, the government is committed to strengthening the skills of employees through the Competence Plan 2020. The government has announced that we will present a new level of competence in the budget proposal for 2021. The government has also increased the appropriations for basic, continuing training of care staff by 170 million. kr, for a total allocation of approximately 360 million. kr. During the period 2016–2018, around 84 000 care staff have completed basic, continuing or recurrent training with the support of Competence Grant 2020. In today’s local democratic system, municipalities have great freedom to organise services according to local priorities and needs, including the use of temporary workers. The government is committed to developing a full-time culture of health and care services and reducing the use of part-time. The Government, through amendments to the Working Environment Act, has made it easier for the parties to set up guards of up to 12,5 hours and for part-time employees to have the right to a share of the position. I have recently presented a separate action plan for general medical care to help realise a sustainable and forward-looking general medical service system. The daily activity offer gives users meaning, mastering and good experiences. At the same time, dependants receive relief. Now that we have a statutory obligation to provide day-to-day activities, it was also natural to include the grant, as already signaled in 2012. We have not removed the money, but put it into the municipal framework, which means less administration and gives municipalities the opportunity to prioritise in line with local needs. During the year, the government will present a new dementia plan, such as: will address activities and prevention. The representatives of the Workers' Party are calling for a separate scheme for protection of disabled persons with dementia. This already exists in the municipalities and through the investment grant, buildings and technologies are required to be organised for persons with cognitive failure. I have also commissioned the House Bank to assess whether requirements should be set for the technological type of solutions. Furthermore, the representatives ask that the government not invite more municipalities into the effort to finance the care services in the state. As of today, five municipalities participate. In the context of the review of the 2020 budget, the Stortinget supported the government’s proposal to extend to six municipalities. This is followed up, but start-up for the six municipalities is proposed to be postponed until 1 January 2021 due to the corona situation. The test shall be scheduled to expire in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4421	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4426	What I normally think is the purpose of an experiment, is to learn something, something that one should do more of, or that one might have to do in such a way that everyone should do it. If one is to state on time, or after the trial, health and care services, something similar to school and education – I am really a little interested in hearing what happens when the government sits behind closed doors and has quality time. What do you think about the future municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4431	The representative now asks a question that he knows he cannot get an answer to. But I can try to answer what he starts the question with, as I see it, which is what is the purpose of this experiment. It is such that the Progress Party, which was part of the government basis when this experiment was launched, has another solution in this area that they have wanted to try out. They have received support from the other government parties. That's what's going on right now. I believe that this attempt, whether this becomes a future model or not, will provide useful knowledge for both us and the municipalities. We already see from the evaluation report and the feedback from the municipalities that are involved, that there is learning from this experiment that is relevant, even if one chooses not to go further and make the care of the elderly publicly funded.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4436	Now I'm going to be a little straightforward with the Council of State, because I'm going to give him the opportunity to answer the following questions: One period was another that was responsible for the policy of the elderly, but the Council of State has been in the government for a long time – for seven years. I wonder, what does the Council of State think is the biggest challenge? Where is it that he feels that you are most left at the station, to put it this way, when it comes to care for the elderly in Norway at the moment.?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4441	These are really the challenges that I described in the Life Reform, which we are now starting to implement, namely that we have the greatest shortcomings in the areas that are most important in life – having activity and sharing together, experiencing that things are connected, that relatives do not have to endure until the municipality makes their offers, but that relatives can be involved and play a role all the way, but together with the municipality. This is well described in the quality reform, and we believe that the reform has a content that makes it very realistic to do something about it, because we are taking on the basis of solutions that have proven to work in many municipalities. Then we work together to try to implement the same solutions in all the municipalities of the country. And as announced, the municipalities that have developed their own Life life-plan will also have access to government funds next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4446	If we go back to the time before the Corona outbreak – then the conversion was done that I said something about in my post, where a cut-off grant scheme. I am aware that it was announced that it was to be put into the frame gradually, but since one had only come halfway to the goal and some municipalities had been so competent to apply, at the strong invitation of the state, and built up good offers, it created great problems when it suddenly became a conversion and everything was lubricated beyond without any more money. See how demanding this was for some municipalities, which might have to generate between 4 and 5 million. kr in order to continue with those offers, often also from the health and care sector, as it is not so easy to find money elsewhere when there are tight times?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4451	Yes, I get that very well. But that's the way the representative was about to do, that already in 2012, under the Stoltenberg government, it was announced that this earmarked scheme was going to be incorporated into the framework. It was meant, as the vast majority of other earmarked schemes, as an incentive grant. After all, the government made significantly more money each year than the municipalities applied for, but it turned out that this scheme did not work well enough, and that was also the reason why the government parties were in favour of municipalities having a legal obligation to provide this type of service instead. Now we've been using carrots for years, now we're using more whips and saying this is going to work. The conversion that earmarked schemes always involve is something that I hope the representative will take along, because it's a warning to all of us that introducing earmarked schemes works very well when you do, but it often creates big problems when you're going to go into ordinary financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4458	It's the same thing, it's about daytime space for home builders with dementia. I agree with what has been said, that there was an investment premium introduced by the red-green government, and it is not unreal that this is put into the frame. It's not what the Center Party criticises either. But we're concerned about what happened in those years, that the investment incentive didn't seem like one had thought. Too many municipalities didn't use it. It was not created in as many places as the outlined need, about half. And that's what's our concern. Now it's inside the frame, it's got an obligation, right, but isn't the goal that we should increase the number of day activities places for home builders with dementia, so that you don't have to wait for it in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4463	Yes, that's absolutely it. That is why this type of offer is part of the whole idea of the quality reform Life throughout life. I share the representative's frustration that this scheme was not used enough by the municipalities. There is nothing more frustrating for a government council than first getting money on the state budget for a system that you are very much for, and then they are not used, so you have to return them back when the year is over. That's why I also had several reviews of the scheme to check if there was anything about the scheme, flexibility or other things that would make it more attractive for municipalities to use it. All the reviews showed, for the municipalities that used the scheme, that there was great flexibility, but it was simply too few municipalities that were willing to use the scheme as a reason to bet on it. Therefore, I believe that we had to use the legal requirement that came into force on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4469	I have been rapporteur in a municipality where we have undertaken a systematic job of converting small temporary jobs into full-time jobs in order to reduce the temporary employment budget while at the same time getting significantly better quality services. There are not necessarily large documents that say something about lifting your skills or living your whole life, or other types of documents, that solve the problems there and there. The proposal that we have now put forward is very specific. My question is: why will the Council of State not actively seek to stimulate the projects known to have been carried out in the municipalities with great success?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4474	That's why we have put money into the state budget for that very kind of stimulation. That's what we hope to be used for. I fully agree with the representative that his experience of the rapporteur shows that this is the great opportunity for the municipalities to do something about it. I hope that many municipalities will do something about it, both those who receive funds that have been allocated to any different projects, and – not least – other municipalities who see that these are some municipalities that have received no government money. They have done so on the basis of a political will and, hopefully, on the basis of a conviction that I fully agree with, namely that offering more full-time jobs is of great importance for both recruitment and competence and quality of service. That is why I hope that through these arrangements we will help more of the municipalities do what the representative's municipality did when he was rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4479	The municipalities have got a lot of new tasks in time. There is a funding mechanism for particularly resource-intensive services, which is intended to cover some of the positive, namely that people survive serious accidents and diseases and live longer, but they need demanding follow-up for a very long time. That arrangement has been cut off by 1 billion. kr to the municipal sector, and what many municipalities say, is that this is going beyond the small profits they have to have, for example. These good daily activities, these rehabilitation services that are also needed, and which are also taken away from those who need a little, because they need to be financed up to those who need a lot. The second is that hospitals now also warn that they are going to print even more, and that the municipal health service is going to take on even more of the tasks that are currently being carried out in the specialist health service. Does the government intend to finance this through increased frameworks or through the grant for particularly resource-intensive services?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4486	I fully agree that the grant for particularly resource-intensive services is a very good scheme. It was introduced in its time by Erna Solberg as the municipal minister, and it has been a great success. It has helped the municipalities to get more money just to give a good offer to this group, and that it has become more fair, because this has worked as a cohesion between the municipalities that have many inhabitants who need resource-intensive services, and those who don't, and that's very good. The use of the scheme has increased significantly. Government funding to municipalities through this scheme has increased significantly every year, and it shows the importance of the scheme. Of course, we have also strengthened the finances of municipalities every year, and it has contributed, as I also said in my post, to the fact that there have been 12,000 more employees in these services in just a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4493	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4500	I'm in charge of the Municipal Committee and I'm familiar with the local economy. The municipal economy has been somewhat strengthened until 2019. There are substantially increased tax revenues and not government increases that have contributed to them. In 2019 it got worse, and in 2020 we don't know how it goes. Within these frameworks there is no room for either a lack of competence or better services for the local government sector. I have also registered that the government's municipal economy for next year is not exactly a handshake to all the heroes in care. There is not added a single penny in salary increases for those who are now going to do these important jobs, and who are also going to gain more competence. This is not related. One of the things that I've been busy about is that there's so little staff in hospitals that patients get medicated when they really need care and comfort and someone who has time to talk to them. This is not something I have found on the sea – there are several surveys that show this, among other things. in Sykepleien two years ago. One in three nurses provides every month or more anxiety-relieving and tranquilizers when it is professionally human time and care that is right. In medication, we also risk putting on people who are already sick, new suffering – anxiety disorders, other problems – as if it were not enough before. This is not possible to solve without more employees, that the employees also have entire jobs, so that dents and others very ill do not relate to very many people. I often think when we discuss here: how would I have it? I'm sure that if I get so fragile that I can't take care of my sails, I'd like to have the opportunity to take a shower every day. I would like someone to come home and help me keep it clean in my house if I can't handle it. Now there's a lot of people sitting there and maybe getting two hours of help cleaning every three or every four weeks. The family struggles to help them. It's maybe long travel distances, maybe people are demented, maybe it just becomes a conflict around this, which should be good family relationships. It's a value choice if we want to improve this, or if you want to spend the money on something else. SV prioritises care for both the elderly and others who need the welfare country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4511	In one case that is being dealt with today, we propose that the government, through cooperation with the KS and the employee organisations, establish a national programme to increase basic staffing and to recruit to the municipal health and care service. It is very important that this is locally anchored. I have recorded that the committee has had written consultation with input from many who are very positive to that particular scheme. It is very positive to increase full-time positions in the care sector. A simple approach is to extend less temporary jobs to larger jobs that are not earmarked for a department, which is also being done today, but as an absolute need to systematise, and not least to stimulate it to happen. Experience from several projects and municipalities shows that the average employment rate is increasing significantly. Local authorities report lower sick leave, increased professional skills, more familiar faces for users, and not least – there are eye-catching results when a reduction in total costs is seen while the number of caregivers has increased and the need for care has increased. It's a win-win situation. Municipal health and care services face major challenges. There's a lot of pressure on the employees in the service. The health and care sector tops the statistics on sick leave in the Norwegian labour market. The municipalities have, among other things: difficulty in recruiting nurses, health professionals, protectionists, doctors and psychologists. Such projects to increase basic staffing in health and care services will be attractive to many municipalities. However, launching such projects is a short-term economic and practical challenge. The project requires management at the beginning, and there may be a threshold for municipalities that there is no economic pot at the bottom. It may be a threshold for politicians to make decisions because they do not know whether this will reduce costs. Today, municipalities have great freedom – a freedom that they use, and they also embrace their services and organise them according to the needs of each municipality. Nevertheless, it is very important that the country organises such a service, so that those who have had good experience and gained profits from it are motivated to continue with that type of service. There are no comprehensive documents such as competence requirements in municipalities, action plan for the permanent scheme, lifelong living or Competencelift 2020 that solve these challenges. Several municipalities have implemented projects where they have reduced the temporary budget. Our proposal will lead to more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4528	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4543	Let me first thank the Presidentship of the Stortinge for the opportunity to make a statement on the situation in the field of child protection. My ambition is to give a nuanced and comprehensive picture of the situation and at the same time describe how the government meets the documented challenges in the service. I also want to take into account the coronary situation, with particular emphasis on the consequences it has had for vulnerable children. Child protection depends on having the trust and reputation of society to reach children and parents in need of help. A number of demonstrations and media reviews have, in addition to the cases dealt with in the European Court of Human Rights, the EMD, contributed to creating a unilateral negative impression of the service. This is the background for me asking to make this statement. I fear that persistent negative attention could have more unfortunate consequences – for children and families in need of child protection, for the reputation of the service, for the confidence of the population in child protection, for the recruitment of employees – and also pass on reputational challenges to Norway internationally. In the country's small and large child protection services, the skilled professionals work with warm hearts and wise heads. These are employees who are very much in need of all children and young people to have a safe and well-growth. A unilaterally negative attention to the service is particularly unfair to it. Above all, however, the vulnerable and vulnerable children are affected. For these children, child protection will often be the main safety net. It's been a special spring for all of us. The anti-infectious measures resulting from covid-19 have led to major changes in everyone's daily lives. Uncertainty, shutdown and isolation are something that few of us live well over time. This spring has been particularly stressful for those of us who already was in a difficult situation. In order to improve the situation for vulnerable children and young people, the government has implemented a number of measures, and we also propose a number of measures in the revised budget. In addition to large allocations for ordinary services, we have proposed measures of more than 400 million. kr on the responsibilities of different departments. The proposals include, inter alia: measures in the field of education, health and child protection. In order to provide vulnerable children, young people and families in this crisis, child protection services have had to change in a short time. My impression is that many people have done this in a good way. During crisis management, many child protection services have received fewer concerns than usual. It is important for me to say that it is never wrong to report a concern for a child. That is why I am pleased that we have now opened the National Portal of Concern messages, where everyone can report their concerns digitally. We have also arranged for the alarm phone to be more easily accessible to children and young people. A chat function has been developed, which lowers the threshold for children and young people to make contact. Both the alarm phone and the chat function have extended the opening time and are now open 24 hours. In the revision, the government proposes to strengthen the allocation so that the alarm phone can maintain the 24-hour operation out of the year. In spring 2020, the government established a coordination group at the directorate level to ensure both the attention and knowledge of vulnerable children and young people during this critical period. The group, which regularly reports to me, has estimated that about 20 pst. by children and young people in Norway are considered to be particularly vulnerable. Early in crisis management, it was clear that child protection has social-critical tasks, and this has been important in maintaining the provision of services. We were also early in providing information to all municipalities on the tasks that child protection needs to prioritise in capacity challenges. It also provided clear advice that municipalities should not lead to the avoidance of physical encounters with children and families by child-restraint workers. A Child Protection Risk Assessment Guide has also been developed. The guidelines have been developed in consultation with the Institute for Public Health. In order to prevent child protection and social affairs from becoming a bottleneck in the system, a temporary law has been adopted which provides for greater flexibility in the settlement of cases and the possibility of dealing with cases without physical presence. Although surveys have shown that child protection has largely performed the most important tasks throughout the period, many have experienced child protection services as less accessible. The most recent monitoring of the state of child protection was carried out at the end of April. This suggests that municipal child protection has largely adapted to the new situation and found good solutions for carrying out its statutory tasks. They succeed, among other things: improving the maintenance of relief measures and the implementation of association, but there are still fewer concerns than it normally does at this time of year. Recently, I met with the Swedish Children's Protection Association and other user organisations in the field of child protection. The organisations described major differences in the way children in child protection have had during the course of coronary crisis. Many children living in institutions have had new rules and procedures to deal with. Among other things, they have had to have homework at the institution. For me, it has always been important that the schools and kindergartens opened up so quickly the situation allowed. Children did not go to school, kindergarten, football training, permanent school, dentist or health centre. As a result, many of those who usually report concerns about child protection did not do so during this period. I am pleased that the schools and kindergartens have now reopened, and that we can all gradually take our daily lives back. It's going to be a different summer, but I hope and believe that the services for vulnerable children and young people will soon be back to full. I am concerned that children and parents will get the right help early enough. My starting point is that parents are the most important caregivers in children's lives. Small and large events, however, can put family life to the test and challenge parents' ability and ability to provide children with the care they need. Then society will support, guide and relieve. Our policy is to strengthen prevention measures so that most possible children can grow up in their families. At the same time, there must never be any doubt that we take the best interests of the child into account. Norway has been, and will continue to be, a leading country in protecting the rights of children and in providing them with real content. We can be proud that we view children as independent individuals, with our own rights and the right to be heard. We must stand firm that the best of the children is the leading principle in all work for a childhood without failure. The right of children to safety and protection shall always be a priority. Child protection is one of the most important and perhaps the most complex welfare services we have. The children and families who receive help from child protection are among the most vulnerable in our society. This is precisely why it is so important that matters are handled properly and that children and families in the field of child protection receive good and proper help. The number of children and young people receiving child protection has increased in recent years. From 2014 to 2018, the increase was about 5 pst. During 2018, about 55,000 children received child protection assistance. Most of these children received relief while living at home. Most children and young people who cannot live at home move to a foster home. Some live in institutions or dwellings with follow-up. A total of 15,140 children and young people lived in foster homes or institutions at the end of 2018. In my opinion, Norway has good child protection. Developments in recent years have been positive. Several children receive help, and reports from municipalities indicate better compliance with legal requirements. At the same time, there are still considerable differences in quality between municipalities. Monitoring and research reports have highlighted quality and structural challenges, including: in the form of weaknesses in the interaction between different services, both in individual municipalities and between levels of government. It is shown, among others: to enable the assistance provided to be perceived as fragmented and to be too much adapted to the needs of children and families. Substantial challenges have also been identified in parts of the provision of institutions. This is serious. Institutions shall help the most vulnerable children, where the height of fall is greatest. Still, sometimes we get to grips with the children who have the greatest help needs, often at the intersection of drugs, crime and mental health. We need to learn from mistakes, whether it's through individual cases before the court or through detailed investigations of different areas. We know that there are quality challenges in several municipalities, and that there are too many variations in the help the children get. This applies both to the assistance provided to children living at home and to those living in foster homes or institutions. We also know that the services to provide vulnerable children and young people do not always cooperate well enough, either with each other or with those in need of help. The child protection service has a special responsibility to help children obtain the full assistance they need. They shall cooperate with the other auxiliary equipment and contribute to the provision of necessary assistance and follow-up from other services to children. Children’s issues have become a burden on Norway’s reputation in a number of countries. The campaigns are carried out in social media and on the Internet, and are often marked by hateful and gross accusations against Norwegian authorities. We work closely with the U.D. and the embassies to respond to such campaigns and to provide accurate information on child protection. Norway participates in several international networks and organisations where work on disinformation and false news is on the agenda. Norway also has close cooperation with the Nordic countries and other European countries, including Norway. through the Council of Europe and the OSCE. The EMD has found infringement of the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, in seven child protection judgments against Norway. I will address these judgments initially against Norway. I will then report on ongoing changes in the service that will strengthen children and parents' legal certainty and improve the quality of service provision. Since 2015, the EMD has dealt with 37 issues that all raise questions about child protection measures that have infringed the right to family life of the European Convention on Human Rights, EMC, Article 8. Out of nine judges so far, the EMD believed that the right to family life was violated in seven cases. One of the convictions is passed in the EMD Grand Chamber. Three of the convictions are not enforceable. In all cases where the EMD has found that there has been an infringement, it has been justified by weaknesses in the specific decision-making basis or justification of the child protection system or the courts. EMD has not found that the rules of the Children’s Protection Act on specific measures such as these are contrary to the EMK. The Court of Justice has also made it clear that the Norwegian legal security guarantees are reassuring. On the other hand, the Court of Justice has pointed out that the reasons for the choice of child protection measures have not been sufficient and that insufficient provision has been made for the child to be reunited with his or her parents. I look seriously at the judgments of the EMD, and we're working to follow up the learning points from these. An important measure is to disseminate knowledge of the judgements of the child protection sector. This applies to the municipalities, the county councillors and the county councillors. A good knowledge of these learning points will help to guide Norwegian child protection practices in the future. I have contacted various actors in the field of child protection about this. Bufdir cooperates with the statesmen to get the knowledge out to the municipalities. I also know that the subjects for child protection and social affairs are concerned with following up the EMD judgments. In March, the Norwegian Supreme Court assessed whether the Norwegian legal status was in accordance with the EMK, the Children’s Convention and the Constitution. The Supreme Court has also concluded that the rules of the Child Protection Act as such are in conformity with the ECHR. The Supreme Court provides important guidance on how the Child Protection Act is to be practised within the framework of the EMC and points to the need for adjustments in Norwegian child protection practices. Among other things, the Supreme Court stressed that association must be determined on the basis of the circumstances of the individual case. The clarifications of the Supreme Court will also be communicated to the municipalities. A number of measures are therefore being taken to contribute to the proper enforcement of the judgments of the EMD and the Supreme Court, both of the Department, the Directorates and the denominators. These measures will help us improve Norwegian child protection for both children and parents. Although the judgments of the EMD provide important learning points, the government has decided to request retreatment in the EMD’s Grand Chamber of the last two judgments issued by the EMD against Norway. The EMD has also decided to review another Norwegian child protection case, which was decided in the Chamber in December 2019. Child protection issues involve difficult balances where the consideration of biological parents needs to be balanced against what is best for the child. It is essential in Norwegian law that a care takeover is temporary and that the aim is to reunite the child with its biological parents in the long term. But child protection must at all times consider what is best for the child, and that is what we believe is crucial. The principle of the best interests of the child is strong in Norwegian law and is a recognised principle also internationally. This will mean that in some cases we need to place greater emphasis on the child's own right to health and development protection and less emphasis on preserving the unity of the biological family. The threshold for large chamber treatment in the EMD is high. However, I believe it is important that we make use of the opportunities offered by the EMK to help ensure that the child's best performance is adequately passed on to the EMD, in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Norwegian legal tradition. The best interests of the child must be the fundamental importance of child protection matters, and we will ask the EMD to clarify the assessments that need to be made when emphasising the best interests of the child. I am concerned that the legislation should be accessible to users and a good tool for child protection services. One of the first things I did when I became Minister for Child and Family Affairs was to send a proposal for a new Child Protection Act at the hearing. The new law shall be simpler, more accessible and better adapted to today's society. The aim is for the new Child Protection Act to lead to better professional work and increased legal certainty for children and parents. It is a fundamental principle that the linguistic, cultural and religious background of children should be safeguarded in the field of child protection. This applies to all with a minority background in Norway. In the new Child Protection Act, we propose to legislate that child protection should take this into account in their work. The best thing for the child is the overall consideration of child protection. The proposal for a new law is based on the changes from 2018, when the Children's Protection Act became a right law. The proposal for a new law places the child’s needs in the centre and further facilitates the child’s being able to explain himself as freely as possible in his/her case. We will build on the resources that exist around the child, and facilitate the involvement of the child's family and network. This is important both in order to be able to put in place measures that are well adapted to the needs of individual children and families, and in order to ensure important relationships for the child if there is a need for out-of-home action. The new law will contribute to an increased focus on prevention and early intervention. In this way, the law will provide a better professional tool for child protection services and other child protection actors. This could help to improve the quality of child protection and strengthen the rights of the children who need it most. The proposal for the new Child Protection Act was being consulted in 2019. I am pleased that a large majority of the hearing bodies give overall support to the proposal for a new law. However, the hearing bodies do have a number of recordings. Several call for more mention of human rights considerations. In addition, the new Children’s Protection Act will be presented at the same time as there are still several issues for treatment in the EMD. In view of this, it is particularly important that the new law contains good human rights assessments. I want the proposal for a new law to provide good guidance on how the Child Protection Act is to be practised within the framework of human rights obligations. I aim to present proposals for a new Children's Protection Act in the spring of 2021. Although a new Children's Protection Act will be presented next year, I have in Prop. 84 L, which was presented on 24 April of this year, has already made proposals for some legislative changes. We have had successful attempts in the subjects with the conversation process, and I propose to introduce it as a permanent arrangement. This is a form of procedure in which the head of staff invites the parties to the case for discussions, among other things. to examine whether agreement can be reached on a solution best suited to the child. The use of the conversation process will contribute to less coercion and may also lower the level of conflict between the child protection service and the parents. I hope this will create greater security for the child and less burdensome legal proceedings. In the same proposition, I suggest raising the age limit for post- protection, so that fewer people who have experienced care failure are excluded as young adults. In addition, we will ensure that the quality and staffing situation of each municipality is regularly assessed. It shall become more visible which municipalities do not give sufficient priority to the protection of children. I propose to introduce a requirement for annual status reporting from the Child Protection Service to the local government. This means that the municipality must regularly assess whether the quality and staffing of the child protection service is good enough. Municipalities are responsible for a number of offers and services for children and young people, including child protection. Stortinget addressed in 2017 Prop. 73 L for 2016-2017 on the Child Protection Reform. The aim of the reform is to strengthen early intervention and prevention, so that more children can grow up in their families and their communities. The reform of child protection is a quality reform. It shall enhance the quality of services provided to children and families through changes in the division of responsibilities between country and municipality, provide a clearer regulation of private actors, as well as various digitisation and competence measures. The liability changes shall take effect in 2022. Municipalities will have greater financial responsibility for child protection than they have today. This will be compensated for by an increase in free revenues. In this way, municipalities will have a greater economic space to build up good relief measures. Increased funding responsibilities through the use of state child protection measures, such as institutions, will strengthen the incentives of municipalities to give priority to early intervention and prevention. We are already well-informed on quality raising measures. These are based on the fact that employees are the primary resource of child protection. If we are to succeed in meeting the challenges, those who work in the services must have good working conditions. They must experience confidence and support in their professional activity. They must have access to modern digital tools and the necessary skills to provide timely and timely assistance. The opposition has repeatedly pointed to the introduction of manning standards and the designation of funds for several positions as the main means of raising the quality of child protection. I agree that good working conditions and sufficient capacity are necessary to enable employees to do a good job. At the same time, I have been sceptical about solutions that involve strong detail management. I believe it is important to point out that it is the individual municipality that is responsible for child protection. I want the municipalities to take their responsibilities. They must also have the freedom to govern and organise child protection according to local circumstances and needs. Local government must be close to its own child protection service and follow up both quality and capacity. Municipalities must also see child protection in the context of other services providing family support and parental guidance. It is important that the manning needs are assessed locally by those who know where the shoe is pressing. Several measures have been taken by the government to increase awareness and knowledge of child protection in municipalities, so that priorities are good. We have provided network solutions that allow municipalities to access key data on their own child protection service and the ability to compare with other municipalities. The community has conducted dialogue meetings with the management of all municipalities to discuss the situation and staffing of child protection services, and we have submitted proposals to the Stortinget to introduce annual status reporting requirements to the local government. Since 2013, job growth has been significant, and this is due to the fact that municipalities give greater priority to child protection. That's good. I will continue to follow the manning situation and facilitate positive development. It has been repeatedly pointed out that the quality of professional assessments and justifications varies too much. Often, careful assessments of children’s needs and the kind of help they need are lacking. High demands must be made on the skills and discretion of employees. Employees themselves have also called for more competence. Therefore, empowerment has been one of my most important priorities. We have sent proposals on competence requirements for consultation. Here we propose, among other things: requirements for master’s degree for managers and for those performing core tasks in municipal child protection. This will mean a significant lifting. More knowledge will make employees better equipped to solve their problems. Higher skills requirements will also contribute to increased status and make child protection more attractive as a workplace for skilled professionals. New skills requirements are combined with measures to strengthen child protection training. We have also provided a strong improvement in the provision of continuing training for those who already work in the services. Over 90 million. kr is allocated to capacity-building actions in 2020. It is an important objective to increase confidence in child protection in families with a minority background. There is therefore a strong emphasis on increasing the ability of employees to relate and to understand culture. An important objective is that, through good and trusting cooperation with families, child protection services should be able to find relief measures that families experience as useful and valuable. Good action and early help will help to reduce the need for care provision. One of the competence measures in this context is a new further training offer at the VID Science College in Stavanger, which started in the autumn of 2019. There has also been a development of a provision of training in minority competences that will be offered to selected municipalities and establishments in the state child protection sector in the spring of 2020. In a new regulation on learning outcomes in child protection education, a bachelor's degree in child protection, there is, among other things: clarification of the knowledge of the life situation and rights of indigenous, ethnic and refugees. We also assess how cultural bridge builders, or link workers, can help strengthen trust and interaction between public services and users. Several other measures are in place to improve the trust of minority families in the service. Several of these are part of the Bufdir Action Plan to improve trust between ethnic minority communities and child protection 2016-2021. The plan includes, inter alia: measures to further develop the competence of the Child Protection Service, increase user involvement, improve the use of interpreters and inform about the work of child protection. In 2020, around 11 million were also allocated. kr to strengthen the relief work of child protection. The resources shall make the relief work more systematic and adapted to individual needs. Testing of the new model starts in the autumn. At the same time, we are working to further develop the content of Bufetat's specialised actions for the families of infants and young children and to assist children and young people in need of comprehensive follow-up. We're also doing a great job of giving municipal child protection a very desirable digital boost. Today, child protection does not make good use of the opportunities offered by digital tools and solutions. This now makes Buffdir and KS something in common with, through the DigiBarn Protection initiative. The government has set a total of 30 million. to DigiBarnevern in 2020. The first delivery from DigiBarnevern is the new digital portal for anxiety messages. The portal was opened in April and allows a child’s concern to be notified digitally, in a simple and secure way. Digital concerns messages can enhance the legal certainty of children by speeding up the delivery of messages and providing more relevant content, and lowering the threshold for reporting concerns. Several digital solutions will be launched in the period up to 2023. Developments include: solutions for the collection of data for statistical purposes and solutions for the secure exchange of electronic messages between services. This simplifies work processes and ensures better management data. With more efficient working processes and better professional support integrated into the ICT system, employees will be given more time to follow up on children and families. Good governance data are important for the state and municipalities in further developing child protection. The quality of the offer needs to be improved, and we need to have less undesired variation between municipalities. Better health care for children in child protection is a high priority of the government. Children in child protection are not adequately addressed in their health care needs. The provision of services is often not adapted to the fact that many children need care from child protection and health care at the same time. We have already taken a number of measures in this area. The aim is to monitor children and young people in the field of child protection and to provide rapid health care. Bufdir and the Health Directorate have recently completed an investigation into the health monitoring of children in child protection. In the Buffetat region south and north, a new institutional service is also being tested for children who both need long-term care away from home and a high need for health care. It is developed in close cooperation between health businesses and Bufetat. Some children and young people are so violent and criminal that they must be protected from themselves. Sometimes society must also be protected against them. These are the children and young people who have not received the help they needed in their childhood. The bigger their challenges have been, the harder it is to get in the position to help them. Many of these have themselves been subjected to violence, abuse or care failure. Good help requires joint efforts by several agencies. At the same time, we must be honest that children who commit serious and repeated crime challenge society and our legal system. It's hard to help these kids, and we haven't done enough so far. The government works across sectors to get a targeted and comprehensive effort in this area. We gain more knowledge about what works. We will then assess the need for change, so that children and young people who commit criminal acts are given the best possible help. The government has earmarked 10 million. kr to strengthen child protection efforts in Oslo targeting children aged 12 to 15 who commit or are at risk of crime. The funds go to measures aimed at helping children out of criminal environments and also contribute to closer cooperation between child protection and the police. Child protection has a responsibility to help children and young people who commit serious or repeated crime. However, it is important that child protection measures be taken on the basis of the child’s need for care and treatment, taking into account the best interests of the individual child. Measures justified by societal need for protection are not part of the mandate of child protection. Our policy is based on the fact that the best thing for children is to grow up in a family. Therefore, foster homes are also the most commonly used option for children who are unable to live at home. Of children and young people with child protection, 60 were received by the end of 2018. home help measures. About 80 pst. children and young people who are unable to live at home live in foster homes. It is difficult to recruit sufficient foster homes to meet the needs of different children. It is also a challenge that too many foster homes end up broken. My goal is for all children to have a safe and stable home. My main task here is to strengthen municipal foster home work. We can get more and more foster homes in children's families and networks. Here there has been a positive trend since 2013, but there are still too many differences between municipalities. Therefore, we now put more pressure on this work through guidance and other follow-up of the municipalities. I also want to mobilise non-governmental organisations in a joint effort to provide more foster homes. The strengthening of municipal foster home work is also about guidance and follow-up. Good support is often essential for foster families to cope with the task. It's set at $25 million. kr for the development of community guidance and follow-up services for foster homes. The funds are used for cooperation projects between municipalities. The community has a central role to play in following up the development work in the municipalities. This work continues in the years to come. We will also work to recruit foster homes that can take care of children's language, religion and culture in line with the obligations of the Child Protection Act. However, the position of the child will depend on what is best for the individual child. We are now working on following up the proposals from the Foster Home Committee, which delivered its NOU in 2018. We consider whether there should be clearer requirements for foster home work in regulations. Bufdir is well in the process of developing professional tools to help both municipalities and Bufetat. We are also working to develop clearer criteria for the remuneration and free purchase of foster homes, so that it is easier for both the municipalities and foster parents to know what conditions apply. Not all children can get the help they need in a family. For some children, a stay in a child-care facility is the best offer for a period of time. Often these are children and young people with serious behavioural problems, mental or drug problems. Despite heavy baggage and major challenges, all children have resources, opinions, dreams and opportunities. Employees of child protection institutions shall contribute to the development of children living there, expressed their opinions, realized their dreams and laid a good foundation for standing firm in their own lives. Institutions shall provide for safety, sound care and treatment and ensure that the legal certainty of children is safeguarded during their stay. Employees are charged with a large and ongoing responsibility for children and young people in a very vulnerable situation. This places great demands on the quality and professionalism of the individual. Institutional child protection has many highly skilled employees, but also a large proportion of unskilled workers. In proposals for new skills requirements, which we have now consulted, we propose that those employed in a child protection institution should have a relevant bachelor's degree and that the head of institution should have a relevant master's degree. Institutions report an increase in the number of children with complex needs. They often need tailor-made measures and high staffing around them. There's some background for strengthening the budget of Bufatat in recent years, and for the growth of the only measures we've seen in recent years. I assume that when single measures are chosen, it is based on the best interests of the child. However, provision must be made for children to live as far as possible with other children. Therefore, Bufdir is mandated to review the use of exclusive measures. The provision of institutions is an area of action where quality and legal certainty are particularly important. I am therefore pleased that we have a comprehensive and thorough supervision system that helps to point out offences, errors, weaknesses and deficiencies. This is important for our improvement work in this area. We are constantly working on strengthening the quality of the institutional service, but at the same time we have to recognise that this is a demanding job. Institutional child protection is at the heart of public the exercise of powers. The law opens up the use of coercion and power against children in a particularly vulnerable situation. The risk of failure is therefore high. The area is complex, with interaction challenges and a risk of unclear responsibilities between different services. This concerns, in particular, healthcare and criminal services. These are the challenges I am committed to finding good solutions to, together with the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice. It is absolutely necessary that we work thoroughly and knowledge-based, and that decisions are made on a sound professional basis. Both the Department and the Directorate have launched research and investigations concerning the protection of the institutional child. I cannot rule out the need to take action to further strengthen the knowledge base. Private actors make a significant contribution to both municipal and state child protection. We need to be sure that they provide good and cost-effective services. The government has therefore sent to the consultation a proposal to amend the regulation of private actors in the protection of children, with a view to legislative changes from 2022. Here we propose, among other things: to limit the right of child protection to be assisted by private operators in tasks involving the exercise of public authority. To contribute to the diversity of supply, I want to strengthen the position of ideal suppliers. This is also central to the government platform and is the background for continuing the cooperation agreement with non-profit providers on health and social services in 2019. The agreement recognises, makes visible and strengthens the role of the ideal actors. We have also established new framework agreements for non-profit centres for parents and children, and Bufdir has been given the task of designing a strategy for implementing the Stortingen request decision to increase the proportion of non-profit institutions serving households. Bufdir has also been asked to give priority to non-profit actors over commercial ones where it can be done. I know that many burns to help strengthen child protection. We see it through the employees who every day are on the verge of giving children and young people the best possible growth. We also see it through a non-profit sector that is clearly present in child protection, and through contributions from many others that every day make an effort in child protection. I am both happy and grateful for that. I'm glad that so many people are concerned about and show a great commitment to child protection. I am also pleased that we have a supervisory system that helps to focus attention on risk areas. This is important for our continuous improvement work. As one of the most important welfare services for children and young people, critical attention to the work being done is essential. We have to endure criticism, and we have to use it constructively to create even better child protection. Not least, we need to listen to the experience of those who receive assistance from child protection. User organisations have an important role to play here. Child protection is doing a lot of good work. We just don't hear much about it. These are not the things that end well, which are illuminated in the EMD. It is therefore important to stress that any criticism of child protection needs to be included in a wider framework. The overall picture is that we have a good child protection, but also a good child protection can get better. Therefore, many child protection processes are in progress. These change processes show a child protection system that wants to learn from its mistakes, which shows a willingness to change, and which is committed to acquiring knowledge to help children and parents in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4727	The President will propose that the distribution to the Minister for Child and Family Affairs of the situation in the field of child protection be made available for consideration at a later meeting in Stortinget. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4743	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, six lines with replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4750	There has been a lot of attention around the Storting today, but it is a pleasure to present a completely different but also important matter. I would like to start by thanking the Committee on Good Cooperation and Liberality in preparing this document. We'll deal with Innst. 293 L for 2019-2020, Position of the Labour and Social Committee on Changes to the Public Service Act. The proposal has been at the hearing, and all those who have submitted hearings have expressed a positive opinion. It shows that the proposal has broad support, but that there has also been a demand and a wish from professional organisations. The proposal proposes amendments to the Public Service Act empowering the State Road Administration to obtain information required by the Labour Inspectorate for its supervision of compliance by the various actors with the Public Service Regulation for road transport and to share information with the Labour Inspectorate. In the light of serious and complex work environment challenges, the Labour Inspectorate has had a national commitment to the transport industry since the spring of 2015. In order to improve the effectiveness of the supervision of the public service provisions, it is desirable and necessary to coordinate better the supervisory efforts of the State Road Service and the Labour Inspectorate and to cooperate more closely on resources and competences. It is important to be aware that the generalisation provisions apply to both Norwegian and non-resident employers engaged in domestic transport in Norway — of course. An overall committee agrees that it is problematic and undesirable that only 46 psts were legally paid for foreign freight operating in Norway. of the cases. This means that in many cases Norwegian and foreign transport will not have a level playing field. When I meet the industry myself, for example. Norges Lastebileier-Verbund or others, they also want stronger supervision, so as to unlock unprofessional actors. It is appropriate to give greater authority to the State Road Service, all the time when the State Road Service also has a device designed to carry out roadside checks. In the South, where I myself come from, there is a steady traffic every year, often because foreign trailers that come with ferja from Denmark are not spared for Norwegian winter driving. When we open up unprofessional actors, I am also convinced that it will have a road safety-enhancing effect. In addition to its proposal for a legislative act, the Committee has agreed on a proposal which reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up and submit to the Stortinget a proposal that the State Road Administration should be given the right of enforcement to stop vehicles following a decision of the Labour Inspectorate.’ The different batches agree on a lot of the reality description and measures, but of course not everything. I will not explain the views of the other parties in the matter, I expect them to come back to during the debate. With that I will address the proposal the undersigned is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4776	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4781	The Labour Party wants a safe and fair working life, with full, permanent jobs and a wage to live on. One of the areas where this is clearly under pressure is the transport sector, in particular the cross-border sector. We've seen many ugly examples of it, and we've heard many stories from transport workers and trade unions about unworthy conditions that affect individuals, the serious actors, and that threaten security along our roads. The working party, the trade union movement and the serious employers have long tried to press for increased supervision, both on equipment and not least on the working conditions of the industry. The government has closed its eyes and ears, but after a while it came reluctantly after – so also in this case. The changes we are adopting today have been long-standing demands of professional organisations through the tripartite transport sector programme. It is a pleasure that it finally comes, but it must be allowed to point out that it has taken a very long time. These things could have been in operation a long time ago if the government had listened and acted earlier. Although what is adopted today is good, we are far from being in the target. We expect rapid implementation and resources to be allocated to supervisory work. In addition, we will further strengthen the regulatory framework by introducing joint and several liability for the ordering of transport, and we will facilitate the supervisory work by better recording which actors are operating our roads. In the case of joint and several liability, it is good that the right-hand side is once again coming close. After having rejected joint and several years of joint and several liability, they now realize that it is no longer possible to escape. The question should, however, only be addressed; there is no obligation on the part of the government parties that they would actually propose such a responsibility. Here they're enough, I think, just looking to get a lightning diver to avoid getting shock. They themselves write that this proposal has been launched all the way back to 2014, so here the government has shown that they are not exactly actionable. They're holding back for the longest time. That's why we think we need to promote an important clarification that we actually want a proposal for the Storting on this. The fact that today it is voted down by the right, makes me uncertain whether we will ever see such a proposal from the government. The Committee has been set up to ask the government to submit proposals for the State Road Administration to grant enforcement rights to stop vehicles following a decision by the Labour Inspectorate. It's a pleasure, even though we've had to propose it many times before the right-hand side now admits that this has to happen if the supervision actually works. In addition, the working party, together with the trade movement, has managed to obtain a digital transport register for all goods in and out of the country and for the tasks performed. This will provide an overview of all actors and better control of breaches of Norwegian laws and regulations. Such a solution will facilitate the operation of control posts in order to ensure compliance with the general public policy. Of course, the government parties did not agree, but we are pleased that the bulk of the population has put the cabinet in place and made sure that the government now has to deliver. In the setting we point to what it takes for such a register to work, and we state, through the comments of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, that an electronic web solution must be put in place as quickly as practicable. Finally: Kabotage is in the process of competing Norwegian tour bus companies. Important restrictions have been imposed on the possibility of cabotage by coach in Denmark, where there is no possibility of cabotage for more than seven days per month. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV consider that similar restrictions should be introduced in Norway, as the Workers' Party also proposed last year. With this I recommend the setting and the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind. The working party promises to remain in the driver's seat in this area, and the government will continue to sit in the back seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4802	I should first like to thank the rapporteur for his good work on an important matter and the Committee on Effective Treatment for a hectic period. The proposals we are considering today will significantly strengthen the supervisory effort of the State Road Service and Labour Inspectorate, and we are now taking further steps to combat labour-life crime. It may be appropriate to remind the representative of Grande that, since 2013, the Right in the Government has contributed to a significant strengthening of work to combat crime at work and, among other things, to the fight against crime at work. the establishment of seven labour-criminal centres. This results, and a recent report from the Labour Inspectorate shows that a-krim has been reduced since 2015. Labour crime is cross-border and the transport industry is one of several sectors that are exposed to competition from foreign operators. There has been growing concern in recent years for actors who do not meet the essential requirements for employment and safety in road transport, both among authorities and among social partners. For foreign freight operations in Norway, only 46 psts were legally paid. of the cases. It's serious. It contributes to distorted competition, and it weakens the Norwegian transport industry. Since 2015, the Labour Inspectorate has had a national investment in the transport industry, and supervision has made up the bulk of this investment. On 3 April, the government presented a legislative proposal to strengthen and streamline the supervision of public service provision, with the aim of making better use of the resources of the State Road Service and the Labour Inspectorate. The Ministry proposes to empower the State Road Administration to obtain information that the Labour Inspectorate needs for more effective supervision. This will be a significant strengthening and systematicisation of the work between the departments. In this way, the Labour Inspectorate will be able to get to know much more cases of cabotage or combined transport, and one will be able to assess whether there is any reason to follow up. The solution of the legislative proposal makes it possible to use the special advantage of the State Road Service, by their presence along the road and their competence in detecting cases of cabotage, in order to strengthen and streamline the supervision of the public service provisions. All the hearing bodies have submitted to the Ministry's proposals. In addition, the Professional Traffic Association proposed that the Road Administration of the State should be empowered to stop vehicles that do not comply with the Labour Inspectorate’s decision to stop or violate the Public Service Regulations, as this would make the work of the Labour Inspectorate more effective. This is a proposal for which an overall committee has chosen to agree. The proposal submitted shall help reverse the negative developments in pay and working conditions of workers in the transport sector. At the same time, it will strengthen the conditions of competition for the serious establishments. Furthermore, it shall be difficult to avoid liability and penalties in the event of involvement in unprofessional transport operations. There is therefore a need to look at the responsibilities in the transport chain and, where appropriate, to clarify them. In a report on road cabotage in Norway from the Party-wide cabotage work group in 2014, one of the proposals was a provision on objective liability for the satisfactory remuneration and employment of transport buyers and transport operators. Such a provision would clarify the responsibility for participation. We therefore propose, together with the Government Parties and the Advance Party, that objective legal and economic co-responsibility be found for transport buyers and transport operators and that we return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner. The Committee shares the question of whether to investigate and make proposals, or whether to investigate whether to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner. Right looks at the last as a completely natural process. An investigation is intended to provide a good basis of knowledge before further progress is decided. The right will continue the fight to maintain a safe and decent working life in the future. Good tripartite cooperation is essential for success in labour policy, and the government benefits from real tripartite cooperation where all parties contribute. We are pleased that all the organisations support these proposals and that an overall committee is in favour of the essence of the proposals. This is a new step towards a safe and decent working life, where nine out of ten people, after all, enjoy the job. But it's a continuous work to make sure we have it that way in the future. The right goes in front of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4832	After hearing the last speaker, one can wonder why we're discussing this. The representative, Hagerup, said that the Right should continue his fight to be in front of a safe and decent working life in the transport sector. Similar statements have been received from the Workers' Party. Nevertheless, we are in a situation where what was well-trained professions in long-distance transport and tourist busses a short time ago, today occupations where people living in Norway are largely out of competition. It is maritimely the EEA Agreement that is the reason we have come into such a situation. The measure that the government is now promoting with the cooperation between the State Road Administration and the Labour Inspectorate is quite correct. What is the question, however, is whether it is possible to obtain the effect you want from it, when we know that it is incredibly difficult to control and collect fines and charges for cross-border transport. We are in a situation where serious activities in Norway are being competed by an unreal international competition that has been staged by an EEA agreement where the free, uncontrolled flow of labour and services is the whole point. It's important to clean up this area. The centre party here supports as other proposals which are as precise and concrete as possible. There is talk of working life crime, but for something to be criminal, there must be precise laws and regulations that enable one to distinguish between what is lawful and what is not lawful. Here we are in an industry characterised by ambiguity about the rules that apply, and there is a lack of follow-up of the agencies to follow up on this. We in the Center Party are happy that this has progressed a little bit. We don't want to make this look like it's going to change fundamentally, but what's suggested is positive. The centre party is behind B I, III and IV in the setting, together with SV and the Working Party. One of the most important things is that we get an assessment of the further content — an assessment of the device of a register of establishments that meet the requirements for the operation of transport services, according to the model of e.g. the clean-up register. We are talking here about assessing the device of the register. We've decided that we're going to have a register; it's just questions about how it's going to be designed. The parties to the Government do not share an equivalent precise description in their minority proposal – proposal 1. We in the Centre Party are pleased with a small step, but it is the EEA agreement that is the main problem – an agreement that has made many strong transport professionals have and have had such competitive conditions that they have difficulty maintaining an attractiveness in the profession that makes it possible for interested young people to take on buses or long-distance transport, because one is out of competition by businesses that do not have the Norwegian flag on their signs, or by establishments that have the Norwegian flag, but that are staffed by people from countries that are able to cope with pay and working conditions that are far lower than it is necessary to live a decent life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4847	It is good that the government now makes proposals to extend the authority of the control bodies in this area, which have major challenges of social dumping and cabotage, but we should like both the committee and not least the government to go further, especially in the case of co-responsibility, but also restrictions in cabotage operations, which have been mentioned earlier by the spokesperson, for example from Denmark. Co-responsibility is something I think should be said much more to those who buy transport services than is the practice today. Of course, this should also be regulated by the State. This has long been on the agenda of the trade union movement, and many large companies, with good cooperation with the trade unions in their own companies, have a better practice and morale when it comes to who buys transport services than the rules provide. But the fact that co-responsibility is not regulated in this context, with too much competition from foreign carriers, leads to a very undesirable pressure on pay and working conditions. The truck and trailer driver was for some years a much more sought after profession than it is today. Similarly to another matter we are dealing with in the Committee now, it should be clear to many more than the left in Norwegian policy now that more regulation ensuring good pay and working conditions and more equal conditions of competition is necessary if one wishes to have more than ten-thin-class professionals, including professionals. In addition, I found it unprofessional that the Government Party and the Advance Party make a proposal to assess the need for a business register in the transport sector, which is already agreed – a short time ago, at the end of March – and which the Progress Party voted for and gave several figures. It is stupid to go back to something that was agreed recently, as this creates undue confusion for the actors in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4858	I would like to thank the Advocate General and the Committee for its enthusiastic work on this matter. The background to the proposal on changes in the general government law supports the government's efforts to improve the working environment in the transport industry. Studies show that there are considerable differences between Norwegian and foreign enterprises in this industry. The proposal to provide the State Road Service with information needed by the Labour Inspectorate to enforce legislation in this area is therefore seen as important in order to strengthen and streamline supervision on the Norwegian side. The Christian People's Party, together with the other party, has seen that it's pretty serious, what happens when 54 pst. by non-resident carriers of goods in Norway, they are paid illegally low wages. This weakens Norwegian transport industry from a competitive point of view. The development of several foreign operators on the Norwegian road requires frequent control, both to strengthen the Norwegian transport industry and to increase road safety. Since the Labour Inspectorate has uncovered a number of violations of the rules on pay and working conditions, such as: the minimum wage requirement wishes to strengthen the control activity of the Christian People's Party by extending its powers to the State Road Service. Today, the State Road Service has the right to control and enforce offences against road traffic laws, such as road traffic laws. includes violation of the rules of running and sleeping time. The empowerment of the State Road Administration to obtain information on pay and working conditions will strengthen and streamline the supervision of the general government rules in the road transport sector. It will also provide the Labour Inspectorate with a more accurate basis for carrying out checks and thus making it easier to unwind unprofessional operators. Especially where carriers are not resident in Norway, certain checks will be required without systematic cooperation as this is provided for. The Christian People's Party is therefore positive in introducing rules which can help prevent labour-related crime on the Norwegian side and which help to strengthen the competitiveness of carriers operating in accordance with the legislation. Coordination between the State Road Service and the Labour Inspectorate will improve the resources and competences of the respective departments and make it easier for supervisory authorities to identify the serious cases. In the light of the experience gained, carriers who break road traffic rules also break public policy rules will benefit greatly from the sharing of information. In this way, the elimination of the burden of congestion in this area will contribute positively to improving the efficiency of road transport supervision. The Christian People's Party is therefore behind the amendment to the Public Administration Act as presented in A. When it comes to proposals for the closer distribution of a stronger responsibility for contractors, transport buyers and purchasers of transport services, the Christian People's Party will await the distribution before we take a decision on the proposal. The right is in front of this work, but they are not alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4875	Since the spring of 2015, the Labour Inspectorate has had a national investment in the transport industry. The background to the initiative is that parts of the industry have had serious and complex problems with the working environment and with the crime of working life. Infringements of public service law, together with challenges related to high sick leave, unilateral work, accidents at work and breaches of working time rules, are key in this context. Part of the industry is characterised by actors who deliberately circumvent the environmental and public health legislation and thus achieve an unfair competitive advantage. As referenced in the legislative proposal, there are currently two public transport regulations. The supervisory figures of the Labour Inspectorate show that infringements of the generalised minimum wage requirements are widespread among non-resident carriers and to a lesser extent among Norwegians. At the same time, it is an experience that it is difficult for the Labour Inspectorate to reach, in particular, those non-resident carriers who do not have a permanent place of business in Norway. On the other hand, the national road authority has an apparatus designed to carry out roadside checks and carrying out a large number of such checks. As a supervisory authority under the Public Service Act, the supervisory authority may require the necessary information to monitor compliance with the statutory minimum wage. By means of the bill, the Government proposes that, within its territory, the State Road Administration should now be given the same authority. Furthermore, an explicit basis is proposed for the State Road Administration to be able to transmit such information to the Labour Inspectorate. It is good that a Joint Labour and Social Committee supports the proposals. The laws will provide the basis for a systematised supervisory cooperation in which inspectors from the State Road Administration, when out on their checks, also obtain information and documentation needed by the Labour Inspectorate for the control of minimum wages and salaries. Further follow-up and treatment are still the responsibility of the Labour Inspectorate, with its special competence in the rules of public service. Thus, the Labour Inspectorate will become aware of much more transport operations covered by the Public Service Regulations and of a better basis for meeting the minimum wage requirements. The cooperation mechanism itself is more closely agreed between the State Road Administration and the Labour Inspectorate, with a view to ensuring the most resource-efficient coordination of the supervisory efforts of the agencies. The proposals contained in the proposal strengthen and streamline the supervision of the public policy provisions. This is a new example of the constant need to develop both cooperation and the exchange of information between control centres in order to combat crime at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4890	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4896	The right-wing parties are asked to investigate joint and several liability, but there is nothing in that note and the request that a proposal be submitted to the Stortinget. Can the Council of States say anything about how he regards the time perspective in this matter? How long will such an investigation take, and does the Council of State intend to file a case on this to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4901	I don't think I dare say anything about how long it will take. It will, to be perfectly honest, also touch on the situation in society for the rest, and how capacity is in the ministry. But this is a priority work in the ministry, and it also fits very well into the work we are doing on the revision of the strategy against work-life crime, which is planned to be presented early next year. Then, of course, I suppose that when two of the government parties and the Progress Party ask for this to be investigated, as the comment also says, it is because it is considered that the proposal is interesting enough to ensure that if it does not cause major problems, you are also interested in implementing it. That's at least the way I read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4912	So let's take note of that. There will be no feedback to Stortinget until early on in the revision of the strategy against the crime of working life, and then we will deal with it. In the case of electronic consignment note, adopted by the Stortinget by a majority consisting, inter alia, of: On 31 March, we also wish to see progress in this area. Can the Council of State say anything about how far the government has come with it, and whether he looks at the comments that the red-green parties have made on what kind of consignment note should contain?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4919	When I answer, it is an advantage to listen to everything I answer. I did not say that it was not relevant to come to Stortinget before that, but I said that it was a natural part of the work we are going to do against that strategy. As regards the last question, it was adopted in March, as the representative of Grande points out. This is partly for the Ministry of Transport, but it is natural that we are also connected. There is also no timetable, and it must be said that although labour crime and work against it have a very high priority, both in the Ministry of Transport and with us, there have been some special months in Norway, including in the departments, which means that some investigative work that you might have started might have been delayed. But this is one of the most important priorities for me, in general, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4926	I noticed the Council of State's beginning at the post, where he said very clearly that there are large parts of the industry that deliberately circumvent the public service legislation. One shall not have been in the transport sector much to recognise in that opinion. There are conditions that have been widely known for a long time; it's just a little bit of a follow-up to the companies and the people involved in the industry, so one sees this in everyday life. So the Council of State says he wants to further develop the fight against crime. Here are the rules of generalization that are like that, and breaking them is being a criminal. We in the opposition are in favour of a proposal for co-responsibility, linked to the register and related to joint and several liability for this. The question is, why does the Council not agree when he has such a clear approach to what the situation is?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4935	First of all, it is the great party that decides. That is the way it is – and that is no matter what government sits – that any government, and it often wants to do so too, will want to investigate matters first and then put them before the Storting, and there are reasonable reasons why that is so. Then you get a good light on things. I see that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party also mention that there should be an assessment of a delimitation of the sponsors to be included in the co-responsibility. Then I think it is quite natural that an investigation work is also done on it, before deciding whether to adopt it. But it is clear that it is not unknown in this Chamber that if there are proposals that parties believe are totally inedible, which are out of date to vote for, then you do not ask your own government to investigate it – in this case the Progress Party, which was previously in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4944	What is at the heart of the matter is getting a fair competition. There are still a number of enterprises which pay according to Norwegian general government regulations, which follow the Norwegian legislation. What we're told from them is that they're getting more and more trouble trying to compete because their competitors are cheating. We are clear that someone has to work out the proposals. But when the Council of State has such a clear analysis, that here's a very negative situation, the logical consequence, if one meant anything about what's being said, is that one then puts on the march, investigates concrete proposals and comes to the Storting, because here's none of the representatives who have said that one should not clean up. So why not go straight to the goal when the analysis is so clear that it's not fair competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4953	Firstly, we are discussing today a matter of precisely improving control – perhaps not a huge issue, but nevertheless a very important one, which provides considerable strength for the control that is taking place. When it comes to extending joint and several liability to the buyer, there are industries, for example: the cleaning industry, where it has been done in practice. It's a very unusual tool to use. I think there might be good reasons to do that in this context, precisely because it's an industry where the numbers are ready. We have a code here, it's generalized, you have to pay Norwegian salaries, but only 46 pst. by the non-residents. The fact that you have an investigation at first is common practice, and I can't see anything wrong with asking for it, to be completely honest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4960	I'm on the Transport Committee, and we've had a lot of these things up and discussed this subject, and these questions are very much overlapping in these two committees. I've been sailing a lot out on these petitions and followed along, and what I've seen, and what they've said, those who are employed there, among other things. in the Road Service, that they are now given this authority – and that is what I think is a very good proposal – they often lack tools. So they are not allowed to stop vehicles that violate this legislation. Now there is a proposal from the government to investigate and make suggestions back to the Storting to use fees to a greater extent than to make it a police matter. A clumsy fee would seem much better than charged police cases, to put it this way. Does the Council of State know about this, and what about the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4965	I do not know exactly that matter and how it lies in the government, but I know about the work, where both the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are involved, where we also discuss the need for new criminal responses, administrative fees. It's a low-threshold reaction, which means that you don't bother with the criminal proceedings. It may have some fundamental issues in mind that you have an excessive use of fees, but for the Labour Inspectorate it works very well. My ambition is to continuously clear and deliver measures to combat labour-life crime and unprofessional actors in Norwegian working life. Why? Yes, because it is the exploitation of workers, but also because it is competing seriously with Norwegian enterprises, especially small and medium-sized ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4973	That's good, I like that attitude from the Council of State, and I think that this Council of State, the Minister of Transport and also the Minister of Justice should cooperate well on these issues, because this overlaps with the fields of action. What we have seen, at least, is that there are several countries that have used proper means; they have the ‘clamp’ wheels if they break the provisions that we are talking about here, and not if, for example, they do. there is only too little pattern depth on the tyres. Such things are absolutely crucial if one is to take care of the serious actors. So I fervently ask the Council of State to talk to the other two of its colleagues, for here is the overlapping matter, to take proper action.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4978	I am talking to my colleagues and will continue to do so too. It is now a proposal which concerns one of the most recent amendments tabled by the representative Mr Nävra, which is being promoted by an overall committee, namely that ‘the road authority of the Member States shall be granted the right of enforcement to stop vehicles following a decision of the Labour Inspectorate’. It is precisely what is the starting point for the matter that the government is delivering today, namely that the legislation here is in place; no one really has any doubts about the legislation. We have made the pay field public, but enforcement needs to be improved. It is also important, as is mentioned, that the Ministry of Justice is involved. A number of incisions have recently been introduced which also allow for, for example: to expel foreign drivers. I think that is also useful in the fight against crime at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4987	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e4994	There is no doubt that if you travel around the country looking at some of the car combinations that are standing around, you will definitely see that there are challenges that many do not follow Norwegian pay and working conditions and that there are violations of the cabotage code. Then I record that the opposition now seems that things take time. Yeah, that could be it. For eight years when it was red-green, there were hardly any things happening in this area. But that's not the important thing. What's really important now is that some of the first Progress Party did when we got into government was to get rid of this, make sure that we strengthened the outdoor controls, precisely because it's important to check out. We made sure that you could put the clamp on the wheels that the representative Nävra was busy with, to hold back if you break the laws and regulations. We had demands for winter tyres in Norway. And now also comes this matter of strengthening the supervisory authority of the State Road Administration, and the Labour Inspectorate, to continue the work of removing the unprofessional operators operating in the transport industry. That's where I think we're quite in agreement. So I think there's really a very small difference between the two proposals that lie here. I think everyone agrees that you have to follow up what the Council also says, namely to keep working to remove the unprofessional and make good efforts to get to it. I think this is good. I think it is very good that there is a great deal of pressure on it from the Labour and Social Committee, and the Transport Committee has definitely this high on the agenda. For myself, which runs a lot over and over again, I see many of the actors standing along the road, that there are very rare Norwegian signs on the cars. It shows that we have some major challenges in the cabotage area. That fight I will at least continue to be in. With the proposals that lie here, whether it's opposition or position, I think the job still needs to be done forward to unlocking the unprofessional, removing them and making sure that they are not allowed to operate unprofessionally in Norway. Then we have to make sure that the control authorities have the tools they need. That's why I'm very happy, which the Progress Party also worked with in the government, that you get to go to fees instead of fines, because it'll make it much easier, and you'll avoid that unprofessional ones that just keep on being unprofessional, run off from the bill and aren't part of the serious thing. Therefore, it is also important to continue that job. I hope that the government will be able to get back to the Stortinget quite quickly so that you get a fee instead of fines, because there is a much, much better response. And with high charges you can also close away unprofessionally, because there's money that matters something to many of these.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5007	I hope it is not perceived as unculture, rather as a strength, that there are also people from other committees participating here, because this is essential for the Norwegian transport industry, for Norwegian companies and for the workers involved in transport. What I wanted to say is that the big change within this didn't happen when the Progress Party went into government, but actually when they went out. But it was also thanks to the Progress Party, because they came to us immediately afterwards and agreed to require the establishment of a transport register. It is a crucial instrument. Every day there are something like 3,000 to 4,000 foreign car trains on Norwegian roads, but we never know how many there have been, what they do, when they load and unload, how many jobs they have. Nothing we've been able to follow. Now we can get that tool. It's absolutely crucial. That's what the transport industry and many of the organizations have been asking for for years, and then released it, and I'm very, very happy about it. I am also very pleased with the action that has been taken now, that the Road Administration can do a job for the Labour Inspectorate. It also means a lot, because it's a good footman. There's only one thing left about it that at least I've been very busy, and I've seen where the shoe's printed, and it's about digital shipping. It also means a lot. They should be mandatory. The government is now proposing that it be voluntary. You see what that means. Is it then the serious or are the unprofessional operators sitting in the cab with the copy pencil and writing on new shipping notes? We think we know the answer. It's not the serious ones that do it. It's the serious ones that are going to use digital shipping letters. It's very bad. It should have been mandatory digital shipping notes as well. Then we might have had the last tool, when all this comes into place, to sort out this to a large extent foreign transport, which we don't know much about. So I say again that I sincerely hope that the government will talk about this at least three–four state councils as this applies, so you will eventually also receive mandatory digital shipping letters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5014	It was Bård Hoksrud who inspired me to move on in the discussion, because he said there is little difference between the parties. Yes, it may seem that there is little difference, but the fact is that there is a significant difference. There's a lot of well-meaning words, there's a lot of nice words, and there's a lot of people who haven't done what they were supposed to do over the last few majorization periods. But as the problems have become so big, and by the fact that several of us have been close to people and talked to them about it and really got a clear sense of reality about what you're up against, the realization is that here one has to check, like what we're now adding, and one has to secure fees that make it really work, and that makes those who get the fees have to pay before they leave the country, otherwise it's not certain that one gets the fees. The last thing is that we have to have deterrents that allow those who use the transport companies that cheat, sails to get a significant load. So we're talking about the people who buy the service, the company that accounts for it. When we go in the opposition to get this figured out, and the government is going to come back to Stortinget with proposals that go on it, including, among other things, co-responsibility, the register and joint and several liability are the necessary measures. The state councils were in the clean-up sector instead. There was such a lukewarm situation that we managed to get support for radical, necessary measures to clean up the industry. Once it has gone as far as transport – long-distance transport and tourist bus – a real cut must be deep and thorough, as Carl I. Hagen said in his time, in order to get out the swinery. That's what we're up to now, that one has to do a thorough job, and one has to get a deterrent tool that allows us to change. And that's what I'm addressing the representative, Bård Hoksrud. He has to be in this area, along with the opposition. The party of progress is now breaking out of government on important points. They also have to do that in this area to get cleaned up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5021	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5038	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of lines with up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5045	I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee, but I also want to thank someone else. The cleaning service at Stortinget has done a great job all day, and since it is optional which speaker we are using, I thought that we in the committee could exchange, so that there will be a little less stress and a little more efficient implementation of the meeting. It is now almost 20 years since the marriage pension was converted, from public service pension to a simpler regulation where the pension is calculated independently of benefits from popular security. But long-term transitional rules still make it possible to receive a spouse pension in accordance with the old rules. The rule for the coordination of gross spouse pension from public service pension is one of the most complex legislation of the pension system. It would be even more complicated if the coordination rules were also to be adapted to the phase-in of a new age pension from the population gap from 1954 onwards. To avoid this, the government has proposed a faster phase-in of net pension than proposed 20 years ago. It will be difficult to design coordination rules against new age pension from public interest with the same characteristics as current coordination rules. For this reason, persons entitled to a gross spouse pension who partially earn an old-age pension under new vesting rules will receive pension levels other than those of older age. There has been a general consensus that it would be unfortunate to complicate the legislation in order to calculate spouse pensions with a new set of complex coordination rules. Several hearing bodies recognise that it is a paradox that the non-tested benefits provide the largest payment to surviving spouses who have their own income and self-earned occupational pension. Nevertheless, organisations wish to increase the originally proposed rate for non-needed spouse pensioners at triple normal rates. Most hearing bodies have supported the Ministry's assessment of replacing the gross performance with a net estimated performance of 67 years and have justified this in terms of making understandable rules, legal certainty and predictability for pensioners. There is an overall committee behind the vote, and I also thank the Committee on Cooperation in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5058	Thank you to the rapporteur, who has dropped the committee through a complicated case, and who has ended up with a unanimous vote in line with the government's proposal. As stated in the vote and also referred to by the rapporteur: «The rules for the coordination of the gross spouse pension from public service pension are one of the most complex legislation of the pension scheme.» And as if that were not enough, the legislation would be further complicated with another set of coordination rules between the gross widow's pension and the new retirement pension from social security – in part, for those born between 1954 and 1962, and completely, for those born from 1963 and later. For all those who have followed the years of debates on ‘gold widows’, ‘zero widows’, legislative changes with or without retroactive effect — and in the middle of it all — a European Union index on men’s and women’s equal rights, today’s proposal for simplification must come as a relief. Hopefully, this also applies to future beneficiaries of a spouse pension from a public service pension. They can have a certain hope of understanding what they get in the total pension, and why. As the rapporteur has explained, the proposal is aimed at short-term proceedings and replacing gross spouse pension, probationary or not, with a net imputed spouse pension from 67 years of age, phased in gradually with a new age pension from popular security for those born from 1954 onwards. The fact that the net spouse pension was actually introduced for the vast majority of people already in 2001 also promotes the absence of new, complex coordination rules for a numerically small group, which also have two sets of coordination rules at present, more favourable to those with non-necessary tests than to those with a need-tested spouse pension. With the conversion to a net spouse pension, we do not create new rules for the coordination of two types of gross spouse pension with a new population pension, and we do not create new rules for the shortening of the gross spouse pension for those who themselves have an old-age pension from a public occupational pension. It is also worth noting that employee organisations support the proposal submitted in a joint opinion. The proposal for two different rates, a high rate for those who had a non-need-tested gross right, and a low rate for those who had a need-tested gross right, at the same time takes care of what has been a problem in the past when trying to simplify the legislation on spouse pension – i.e. constitutionally protected, already acquired rights. The working party is behind the committee's attitude in the same way as all the other parties, and if I had been injured in this post for saying something wrong, I expect that it is very easy to get forgiveness for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5076	Retirement is not easy, but I would like to thank the case manager who has guided us well through, and the committee that has done a good job. When the public marriage pension was released from public opinion in 2001, one thought that this would simplify the estimates of benefits, but with long-term transitional rules and a pension reform introduced in 2011 we still see a clear need for further simplification of the legislation. The proposed legislation includes, inter alia: the phase-in of a net imputed spouse pension from the State pension fund. This means that the performances are calculated completely independently of the rules of the population, which will also mean that the performances cannot be coordinated with each other. The pension reform introduced in 2011 has made it necessary to adapt other pension schemes. Instead of introducing a new set of complementary coordination rules, the proposal to release the spouse pension from the benefits of the people's rights would result in a simplification of the legislation. The change from the gross calculation to the net calculation of the spouse pension of 67 years will be introduced for the annual coal from 1954 onwards. The phase-in of a net imputed spouse pension will follow the phase-in of new age pension grubbing-up rules according to population background. A net calculation of the spouse pension without coordination with the benefits in the population would make the calculation simpler and therefore more conservative. The legal security of the individual recipient will also depend on the ability of one to calculate its legitimate performance. The importance of better understanding of the pension system should weigh heavily in assessing legislative proposals in this area, and the Christian People's Party would like to welcome further simplifications in the field of pensions, so that both pensioners who are to accept the pension and those who are to calculate the pension understand how to do it correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5091	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5109	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of lines with up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5116	Although there is an overall committee which agrees on the importance of clarifying the rules and obligations of the Law on People's Rights to international agreements, it is nevertheless a shared position. The majority are in favour of adopting a proposal that the government should return to the Stortinget with proposals for regulatory audits now, while the minority in the Committee will reject this, as we believe it should be included in the work of a notified legislative committee, which is to look at Norwegian social security legislation against the EEA legislation. However, there is an overall committee which in any case believes that the mandate of such a legislative committee should also look at other international agreements. The Committee considers it important that ordinary people should be able to inform themselves of their rights and duties and that the State should also be obliged to facilitate them. Not least, we see this after we realized in the autumn of 2019 that we were facing a historical scandal, where the rules of popular fear have been mispracticed for a number of years. Although Nav has followed up the Storting's intentions in the People's Security Act, an interpretation error caused people to be subjected to a mispractice that has had a major impact on the individual. When social security lawyers have not even been able to interpret the law correctly, it is too much to demand that others be able to do more about their rights and duties. Not that it would have helped in this context, as long as fault practice was both systematic and systemic throughout all instances. We can't have it like that, and that's exactly what the committee agrees on. The Committee notes that Norway is bound by a number of international instruments regulating social security coordination, i.e. how to address the challenges of social security that may arise if a person has lived and/or worked in more than one country. The Committee considers that there is reason to consider whether this should be reflected in national legislation to a greater extent than at present, in the interests of both private individuals and professional users. For most people, however, the most important thing is not the text of the law itself, but that their rights and obligations are easily accessible and understandable. That is why the minority in the Committee believes that the proposal to come back with a new statutory audit does not now fully take place. However, the Committee points out that the government has already announced that they will set up a legislative committee to look at Norwegian social security legislation against EEA legislation. The mandate of such a legislative selection should require the sample to look at the relationship between Norwegian social security legislation and other agreements concluded by Norway with a bearing on social security coordination. Of course, it is expected that the case will be submitted to Stortinget in an appropriate manner once the law commission has provided its investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5129	Thank you again to the rapporteur, and thank you to the proposers for promoting a matter that is important to many users of Nav. As the Council of State itself says in its reply to the Committee, there is every reason to consider how people's rights under the international agreements on which Norway is bound, whether it is the European Social Security Regulation, the Nordic Social Security Convention or our many bilateral social security agreements, can be made clearer by the Law on People's Rights. The Council of State refers to the consideration of both individuals and professional users of law. I would say that there are two sides to the same thing. When professional law-makers don't understand the law, it hits primarily those who rely on Nav to get the right performance at the right time. Wrong law enforcement has hit Nav users hard for years. Many have not received the benefit they claim. Others have been unjustly ordered to refund them, some have even been notified, accused and punished for what they should never have been notified of in the first place. I'm not going to repeat the entire debate we had in the control case on March 5, 2020, based on former Councillor Hauglies' statement on the Nav scandal on November 5, 2019, but just reminding that it is this scandal that is behind proposal No. 80 from SV, to which the majority of the Committee, including the Workers' Party, has joined. However, an overall committee underlines the need for a closer review of the relationship between the Law on Social Security and our international obligations. The difference between the Committee majority, SV, the Centre Party and the Labour Party, on the one hand, and the government parties and the Advance Party on the other, is that the latter, like the government, does not seem to believe that the matter is urgent. Everyone understands that because of the coronary apathy, the government had to put some issues on hold for some time, including the clearing up of the social security scandal, but now we have been dealing with ordinary matters for a long time, and then the social security scandal and the prevention of new misinterpretations should be high on the list of priority issues. But it is not yet the notified legislative committee that will look at the need for clearer rules, reduced, although former government council Hauglie seven months ago informed the Stortinget that she had already started the department looking at how social security legislation can provide better guidance for both users and professional actors. The only thing that has happened so far is that in November 2019, in the middle of the social security scandal, the government presented new demands for residence and residence in Norway, without reference to the social security regulation. So here's a clear need for the Storting to push ahead with this piece of legislation, which is so important to so many.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5144	I would like to thank SV for the proposal and the commitment in the matter. It's totally unreal, what we've learned about the Nav legal scandal. When it became so serious, it was seagoing because it had direct economic consequences for a number of people, and not only financially, but also so that one was put in prison. It is therefore important that we clarify the matter in its full scope by returning the investigation to the preparatory work submitted to Stortinget in connection with the conclusion of the EEA Agreement from 1 January 1994. In view of my experience — and it is beginning to be a few years — what has characterized the treatment by different governments of the impact of the EEA Agreement on Norwegian law and social organisation is that these consequences are obscure. They have been systematically obscured until it was politically appropriate to make them visible. Why can I say it so strongly? Well, because I've experienced that sail. When I was a State Secretary in the Ministry of Local Affairs, around the year 2000, there was a question of whether the House Bank legislation was legal under the EEA Agreement. The Banking Association approved the State of ESA, that it was not lawful, and we, who were political leaders, were in the audience of the then president of the EFTA Surveillance Authority of the EEA Agreement, called ESA, in Brussels. The interesting thing that happened then – this has not been said from the pulpit here before, but I now find an opportunity to say it – was that President Almestad said: Lundtägen, you can just relax, there will be no serious matter about the House Bank, while what goes on at a differentiated employer's fee, it is going to be serious right now. So a few years went by, and it was a party policy opportunity to change the House Bank's legislation, and so did it. Neither the employer’s fee was differentiated nor the Husbank’s issue was discussed when a contract was concluded in 1994. It was essential for the Norwegian population. Only in a later time was it done. The point is that the EEA Agreement is a constitutional disaster, and the Nav legal scandal could have been avoided if Norwegian law, inter alia. the law on social security had been amended immediately in line with the obligations of the EEA Agreement. But it had created a political debate, it had created an opposition to the EEA Agreement that was not desirable to those who defend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5157	The Nav scandal, which struck as a shock to a great many a year ago, has shown great weaknesses in the law as it is today, in the context of Norway having very many international obligations, such as: comes from the very extensive EEA Agreement. What really shows the truth is that so many skilled law-readers in law firm, Nav and court failed to see the illegal practice that appeared in the Nav scandal, leading to many thousands of people being mistreated, and several hundred having been convicted on a false basis. There's now a hurry to clean up and prepare this piece of legislation. It is not sustainable that we have such a complicated piece of legislation that we do not even understand the scope of the law. I must remind you that we cannot yet be quite sure that the lack of clarity of the relationship between the Norwegian law and the EEA Agreement in the legal text itself has not led to other unfortunate judgments, practices and decisions, which are quite different from the social security scandal we saw in the fall. That is why we have put forward this proposal for a representative. We see it as absolutely necessary to push from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5166	The so-called EEA case is not completed in any way. The cleaning is going well, and Stortinget is going to be involved in the matter again – several times. We know that after the investigation commission arrives, the government will come back with a statement to the Stortinget, as announced. Then it is also important to go through the law to see if it can be clarified and mirror better what are the international obligations. But I just want to warn a little – not that I think some of the representatives think so, but if you unwittingly listen, it can be said that if the legal text is not changed, the legal situation will not change. That's not the case. There is no doubt that what has been here – there have been discussions, but EEA law is above Norwegian law – is a wrong practice of EEA law. Then there has been a discussion about the legal conditions for it, and whether it was a mistake, and in what way, but the review committee, which came with its first round now a few months ago, pre-corona, agreed with the department and Nav's assessment of this. So it is not that the practice or regulation has not changed until the laws have been amended. It's very important, not least if there are people who listen to it, who might be unsure about it. Then it makes sense to review the relationship between Norwegian social security legislation and the international social security coordination instruments on which Norway is bound. I already announced on 5 March this year – during the Stortingen debate on former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Annikken Hauglies’ statement on the misappropriation of the labour and welfare state – that the government would set up a legislative committee to look at Norwegian social security legislation against the EEA legislation. It is natural, as several have mentioned, that the mandate of such a legislative selection also obliges the sample to look at the relationship between Norwegian social security legislation and other agreements concluded by Norway with an impact on social security coordination. We are bound by a number of such international instruments that regulate social security coordination. Therefore, there is reason to consider whether these instruments should be reflected to a greater extent than at present in national legislation in the interests of both individuals and professional users. At the same time, as the Committee also points out, it must be weighed against the obligation of Norway under the EEA Agreement to implement Regulations ‘as such’ in Norwegian law, which means that, as a general rule, regulations are to be implemented by means of so-called incorporation. This means that after the legislative committee has delivered its inquiry, and any proposals have been at regular consultation, the matter will be submitted to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5177	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5182	I noticed with interest what the Council of State said in its statement that it might sound as if the opposition believes that if the text of the law is not amended, the legal situation will not change. I can reassure the Council of State at that point – we don't think so. What we're most concerned about is that most people should have a reasonable chance of understanding what's going on, and not depending on lawyers and other lawmakers to run their case. Nor is it very easy to get legal aid in such cases, and the Council of State itself knows that the number of complaints is increasing, the number of cases for social security is increasing. What I'm asking is, why has it taken so long to reduce the law committee? When does the Council of State think that the sample will be reduced, and when can we expect to have a case for Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5189	Of course, it is one of several objectives that legal texts should be able to understand and relate to. But it's probably not like we're able to create all the legal texts so that the toy can be able to read to what's legal and correct in the legal text. It is also one of the Committee's own problems that it is not possible to allow everything that affects a legal state to be caught in legal paragraphs. That is why it is also a good idea to use a legal selection to do this systematically and thoroughly, instead of the ministry almost doing it. Or ‘nearly’, there are good legal environments in the ministerial community in both the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, but it makes sense to do so. We aim to bring down that sample as quickly as possible, hopefully in a short time. So we have to consider how much time they need to do this in a good and thorough way, just like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5196	I thank you for your answer. And then we'll see if we have congruent definitions of what is "as fast as possible" and what "short time" means. While we're waiting, we, too, as big-time representatives, get a lot of questions about social security exports, and there's even worse for us to start going into such issues and answers. An example is that a Turkish citizen, after occupational injury, admitted under the derogation provided for in Section 12-2, third paragraph, point (b), concerning a lack of living time after age 16. The first case handler said he could take the disability benefit to Turkey, and he moved in good faith. Then comes the counter-message: No, the disability can only be exported to the EEA, the United States, Israel, Canada, India, Chile and Australia. I have tried to find out where in the social security agreement with Turkey it says that he cannot take the insurance. On the contrary, I find that the benefit of disability cannot be withheld because the person entitled is resident in Turkey. I'm just using this example to illustrate my point. Does the Council of State realize that people are being confused, and does the Council of State see that it is important for many that legislative work is now proceeding?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5206	I see that people get confused. I was confused even by what the representative read up now. This is hard, and it's complicated. There are rules that are far less complicated than this that the state can sometimes struggle to produce in a good, simple and sensible way, ref. the clear language project we've had going on for a long time, and there's no reason to stop. But I would warn you that there is a expectation that this legislative committee will be able to come up with proposals that allow the toy – or you and I, at least I, who are not a lawyer – to sit down and automatically understand or assess any legal status based on it. It's very hard. But that we should have laws that are clearer, and therefore also consider whether more of what applies to both the EEA and other international obligations under Norwegian law, should be reflected in the legal text, is reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5213	I understand that the government is in a big dilemma because there are thousands of EU commitments that override the Biggest when the Biggest accepts them. If all of them were to enter the Norwegian legal text, it would be a huge legal work continuously. When the Council of State says that this is only to a greater extent to be reflected in national law, it is an answer to the Nav legal scandal we are now facing. What the Centre Party has written in the note is that the Nav legal scandal could have been avoided if Norwegian law, for example. the law on social security had been amended in line with the obligations of the EEA Agreement. In some areas, does this matter show the need to modify the legal texts precisely, because it is so fundamental and clarifyingly important to have it informed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5220	I don't know if I dare to answer that particular question. But as has been duly informed and discussed in Stortinget, the starting point here is not a lack of recognition of the existence of legislation and rules for this from the EEA, but an incorrect understanding and practice of what the contents of those rules were for Norway, to say it very simply, and that there is, as also the representative Nordby Lunde mentioned, a mistake that went back in all instances and at all levels. So it's that the kiss often isn't fine surgery. Of course, it's also that the legal situation can change, but in this case it was a mispractice. But one of the learning points I and the government have said that we're going to follow up is how EEA competence can be better throughout our public system to avoid anything like this happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5227	It is clear that EEA competence needs to be given considerable resources if we are to have a system as complex as what we have today. I thought the government was busy taking away time thieves, as it was said so cleverly, i.e. having clear rules that would reduce administrative costs. The reason for the situation we're in is not that it was the fine surgery that failed, but the gross surgery. It was the headlines, which could have done that both the Nav system, the judiciary, the police and everyone had something easy to deal with. Then I am very surprised that the Council of State is not willing to say that in this area there has to be a clarification, so that it becomes a much more unambiguous and simple code that everyone can practice without having long legal education.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5232	If the representative had stopped before the last additions, that's exactly what I'm saying. The reason why we're putting down this law committee is just to look at and make suggestions on how to do it. It's a little bit of respect for the law committee that I'm not saying that here it's quite obvious that that and that must happen. When we put down a sample, it's because we just need a lot of legal expertise to do this. It is also a good and important principle that in such a heavy case, legal expertise is used. Finally, I just have to mention this malapropos that it is not such that the Stortinget is overrun by the EEA. It is the Stortinget that adopts the EEA. The EEA Agreement is democratically anchored and has full democratic legitimacy in Norway, in line with other international obligations we assume. Obviously, everything would be easier if we had signed out of the EEA, but getting out of our largest market is not this government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5239	The Nav scandal was a terrible awakening for many. I am a little surprised that in some way it is heard by the Council of State as if he is quite convinced that if there had been a reference to the EEA Agreement in this law, and had changed the part of the legal text that deals with what the EEA Agreement imposes on us, there could have been an equal opportunity for misinterpretation. The government has doubts as well as that this is a mere misinterpretation. Would it not at least have been more possible for both case handlers, the case handlers, and those who would have helped them, if there had been a reference there, which could have been used in the negotiations on what you disagreed about?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5246	I can't believe I had any doubts about anything. I was rather so honest that I told the representative, Lundtegen, that I would not want to answer that question. It may be, but I don't have any assumptions now to be able to answer that if, or if you had done anything else, the EEA case could have been avoided. On the other hand, I can say something about what this matter is about. It is part of the major clean-up of the EEA case, with which the ministry is in no way finished – even if we are in a good position – and with which the Stortinget is in no way finished, and which will come back as a number of cases. My prediction is that it will take many years, including because the EEA competence and upgrading of it are not something that can be completed after the round following the examination Commission in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5253	If that's the case, I think maybe the Council of State should have expressed itself a little different than just repeating that this is just a misinterpretation and not a consequence of not amending the legislation. The second question is: when the administration experiences getting cases sent back, with judgment, whether it's from the Social Security Court or normal law, it also lacks a systematic follow-up of it, i.e. systems that say that then you have to fix not only that case, but also – at least if it's about the incorrect application of law – look at the whole system and see if you have created a system that is capable of correcting your own mistakes. I know this is missing in many places. It's missing in a lot of systems. Does the Council of State see the need to establish such systems, so that matters cannot roll and go for a long time without both being addressed internally in the organisation and being lifted up at political level?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5262	Yes, I do, and I have also said that to the Storting in connection with the control and constitution case. Just to take two examples: it's been pretty well documented, I would say, that the lines of communication inside Nav should have been better, just to catch up when it's not just a change of legal status. It could happen. In a legal system, it should be such that different judges can point in slightly different directions, but at some point there is a change in legal status – in this case because you had a bad practice. The second example is the connection between Nav, the National Lawyer and the Social Security Court, where we have also been very clear and given them the task of looking at how the communication between them can improve. It is important for me not to create hopes that we can now get a code that is easy to read for anyone who has not taken the law. I can't promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5271	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5278	When I ask for the floor, it is to follow up the answer that the Council of State gave me on the relationship between the EU and the Stortinget. What I said was that we have thousands of commitments from the European Union that override the Greatness once they are accepted by the Greatness. It is understood that, when those commitments are accepted by the Storting, they provide the framework for the future room for action of the Storting. That's the nucleus. In this way, EU legislation in the field will restrict the possibility for this elected assembly to implement the necessary measures, which are widely understood in the Norwegian opinion that should have been implemented. What is important then is that the Norwegian people are informed that no, sorry, we cannot do this, because we have taken on commitments in a framework called the EEA Agreement, which means that we no longer have that freedom of action. This is where we have had and have a fundamental problem: this over-management has been systematically obscured, so that the Norwegian people have far too little knowledge of what is really the consequence of the social system to which Norway has joined through the EEA Agreement when we have not taken it or distanced it. We are, as several lawyers have said, in a system that is a constitutional disaster. We in the Central Party agree on that. Here we've got the constitutional disaster to the degrees lit in the matter area that is the Nav court scandal. What is then essential is to have an honest and open debate on the impact of the EEA Agreement on all societal areas. In the field of social security, it will be necessary at least to formulate the main pillars of the commitments in such a way that it is clear what the EEA Agreement implies in this area. This is the central point of the Central Party here: we need to have a public information debate through open and honest decisions that show what obligations we assume and what the Norwegian people cannot carry out as long as we are a member of the EU and EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5288	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5305	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5322	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5329	Norway is a rich and important port when it comes to fishing resources. It gives us many and important jobs, and not least it brings great income to our country. In 2019 we set a new record when we exported wild caught fish and fish products for as much as 30.9 billion. kr. The communication we now have for discussion sets out the fisheries agreements we have concluded with other countries for 2020 and the fisheries made under the agreements in 2018 and 2019. These agreements are very important, because that's how we divide the entire 90 pst. of the fishing resources we harvest, with other countries. That's also interesting reading, so I want to give credit to the department for also this year having made an interesting message to us. I would also like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter, which, as last year, has led to a unanimous vote, which must be said to be a little rare by the day when it comes to the fisheries policy. Fisheries agreements shall promote the sustainable management of marine resources, based on the best available knowledge and an eco-based approach. They shall also ensure Norway’s fair share of the allowances. And not least: a sustainable harvest also requires that we have control of the fishing. It is challenging and requires a high level of international cooperation. In this context, it is important and appropriate to point out that in November 2019 the Fisheries Control Committee delivered its inquiry into future fisheries control, where several challenges for current resource control have been identified. That work is also important for Stortingen to follow up. It is also positive that Norway has an active role in international maritime cooperation. The Economic and Social Committee is also committed to giving priority to the future. For example, work on overfishing of major fish stocks is an international problem, where it is important that Norway actively uses its influence. In recent years, marine environmental issues have increased interest, including in the UN and other global environmental conventions and in opinion. It is important that we continue to contribute actively here, because it also affects our own space for self-management of marine resources. One of the countries with which we have extensive fishing cooperation is the United Kingdom, which the Committee also visited earlier this winter, and it is known that Norway will now negotiate its own fisheries agreement with the United Kingdom after Brexit. There will be an agreement of great importance and the Committee expects this work to be prioritised in order to ensure Norwegian interests in a good way. With that, I recommend the overall attitude of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5352	Norway shall play an active role in international maritime cooperation. We are being listened to in international forums because we have found a good balance in our own exploitation of our living marine resources, and we are promoting the message of knowledge-based and sustainable use and in practice demonstrate that it is the best way to maintain a living and productive ecosystem. I would also like to commend a good office, which has succeeded in building good cooperation internationally over many decades. The SV member of the Committee considers it problematic for Norway to switch the species of fish on which the smaller fleet groups are able to fish against species that are inaccessible to these groups. As the Committee's majority points out, the system of quota exchange through negotiation with other countries from the 1970s dates from when coastal states set up their economic zones. It's not like we're replacing someone's quotas; we have a quota exchange to maintain our traditional fisheries. We have challenges in reaching agreement with the other coastal states on the distribution of NVG herring and coal. The Coastal State Agreement on mackerel covers only Norway, the EU and the Faeroe Islands. It is an objective to conclude agreements with all stakeholders on shared stocks, but not at any price. Such agreements must maintain and justify Norwegian resources. Cooperation between Norway and Russia is still strong and good. Since 2006, the industry in Norway and Russia has also cooperated. We see that it is of great value that organisations cooperate throughout the year with common interest in maintaining good relations and further developing cooperation. The United Kingdom left the EU in February this year, and when the transitional period with the EU ends, it will become a significant fishing nation in the North-East Atlantic. A new cooperation platform for Norway, the EU and the United Kingdom is therefore needed for joint populations in the North Sea. I have already had my first meeting with my British and Danish colleagues, and we agree to hold a close and open dialogue in the future. Overfishing is a global challenge, and Norway has engaged heavily in international cooperation in recent decades to ensure sustainable fisheries management. The Committee considers it important that Norway also prioritise this in the coming years, and that we continue to place great emphasis on the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and organised crime in both national and international fisheries. This is a marshy earth that we accept with joy. We will follow up on the Committee's consideration, inter alia: through the Blue Justice initiative to facilitate international cooperation against fishing crime. We are one of the world's leading fishing nations, and we have a responsibility to ensure the sustainable management of marine resources, now and in the future. We'll take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5373	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5403	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5410	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. We are examining two proposals in this case – a proposal from the Progress Party to wind up the county council and one from SV to facilitate the dissolution of coercive municipalities. First, to the proposal of the Progress Party, where they ask the government to initiate a process of winding up the county council. The Progress Party claims that liquidation will strengthen local democracy, reduce bureaucracy and bring services closer to the population. They also claim that the winding-up of the county municipality will be a good policy instrument in district policy. The centre party does not follow any of these reasoning, and fortunately the proposal does not receive the support of any other party either. The centre party is inconceivable that only a few weeks after the merger came into force, the Progress Party, which was involved in pressing through the coercion of the counties, proposes to bring down the entire county municipality. There's an incredible amount of millions spent on aggregation. Local politicians have worked through demanding processes to achieve the merger. Most of them were strongly opposed, and the employees have invested enormous resources in this process. The proposal should at least have come before the regional reform, not afterwards. It's an incomplete proposal, it doesn't say anything about who's going to solve the county council's tasks in the future. Is it the state that has to solve them? In this case, it will result in the centralisation of jobs, power and services. Or is it the municipality that has to solve them? Should new rounds of coercion be made to ensure that all municipalities are large enough to handle e.g.: public transport and secondary schools themselves? I hope the proposers will explain this in the course of the debate. In any case, it is not appropriate for the Centre Party to support this proposal. The county municipality is an efficient service provider that should have more tasks in the future and be further developed. The Centre Party considers that three levels of administration are most appropriate to address the tasks as closely as possible to the citizens. We want strong local democracy, good local knowledge in decision-making processes and services near people – and jobs across the country. So to SV's seven proposals, which are designed to facilitate the dissolution of coercive municipalities. However, an overall committee considers that the partitioning law provides for the necessary mechanisms for the division of merged states. The county council has the right of initiative under the law of division to promote the application for division, and the Grand Duchy has the power to follow up such a decision. The centre party believes that local democracy should be valued highly, and that local politicians on behalf of the voters must decide over their own county municipality, including with regard to the demarcation. Finally, I would like to record the Centre Party and the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5429	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5434	First of all, we also noticed that it did not take many days before the Progress Party saw the need to come forward with a proposal that is probably more for internal medicine to calculate and also an attempt to distance itself from what they were in, and on several occasions enthusiastically from this pulpit and thought was the wisest thing to do. But now they don't mean it anymore. We in the Workers' Party have long been clear that we want three elected levels. We think that makes sense. So it's not time to come up with all the good arguments for why it makes sense, but we think it makes sense that the regions take tasks in terms of business and government. They should have tasks in the fields of transport, education, research, industrial development and the environment. And they're going to keep their tasks the way they are today, and not like the government we have -- and with those who were also there then -- that did its best to try to get rid of the counties. And so it's not proved, as the previous speaker did, what's going to happen instead. In practice, one might have to imagine that Eastfold would have to be made up of one municipality, maybe two, without a state level, in order to deal with the offers that lie there. So to the next: there's the Workers' Party, I think it's four times -- there's at least three -- voted against this coercion. This regional reform, which was nothing but terrible political craftsmanship, and which was forced from a to, where the Progress Party was involved, and where they were involved in forcing the states together, was a bad idea. It's also shown. It is also the case that one has long since failed to show that you are transferring tasks to the counties, as intended. When we come to the proposal on how to possibly dissolve this, we believe that it has already been taken care of. It is up to the states to send a message that they want to dissolve, change borders – call it what you want – to the Storting. And then there's a large number that can handle it. But then we need a new number of large numbers, and it could come in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5447	Many thousands of employees go to work every day in our counties and work to provide the best possible service to the population. They need predictability to do this. The constant rematches taken in this hall do not contribute to it. In the Right, we now think it's right to look forward and make sure that the new county municipalities get the peace to develop and find their form, and it's not done overnight. There is no doubt that the new county municipalities have undergone resource-intensive changes and have had their challenges. Many employees have spent a lot of time and have done a good job of managing these processes, while further developing good services for the population and business. They should be allowed to keep doing that. I refer to the letters of the Council of State to the Committee dated 20 February 2020. Here, the Council of State comments on the wish of the proposers that the Government should: ‘establish mechanisms for the granting of the county council’s application to repeal decisions on coercion and division into units at its own request’, and ‘facilitate the process it wishes and promote the necessary proposals to ensure a clean winding-up process if desired locally’. In the response of the State Council of Astrup, it is stressed that this is already regulated by the law of division. It follows from the law that states may promote the application for the initiation of a divisional inquiry. If such an application is promoted, the Council of State indicates that the Ministry will ensure that a case of the Department's assessment and recommendation is promoted to the Stortinget. I would like to remind you that there are already 225 million paid. kr for the one-off costs of the county councils that merged into the regional reform. At the same time, there are no rules in the law of division on government compensation for non-recurring costs of sharing. Will the proposers, who sometimes argue with great costs in the regional reform, impose even greater costs on the Community by reversing a reform that is still in the implementation phase? To the proposal of the Progress Party: the Granavolden platform clearly states that our country should have three levels of government. That is why, in the Right, we will not vote in favour of the proposal for the closure of the county. I have said this in several of these reversal debates: The time for rematches must be over. The new counties need peace to build up and further develop the service provision for the benefit of the inhabitants, and we should also contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5467	It's a little strange to stand here as the proposer for a proposal to lower an administrative level in Norway when the press bench is completely empty, the storeroom is about empty and the engagement is almost absent. It tells us one thing – that there may not be so many people who really think the county council is so important that it is worth setting up here and bringing the debate with them. The county council is perhaps the administrative level that has the lowest legitimacy, or not just maybe – I think I would dare to say that the county council is the administrative level in Norway that has the lowest legitimacy. The state and local democracy through the municipalities have high legitimacy, while the county municipality has never found its form. For this reason, the proposal of the Progress Party is entirely in place: that we can bring down that level of government and be able to organise a country with a little over five million people with two levels: the municipalities, which are close to their inhabitants, and the state – as a state. There are many reasons why that makes sense. One is that we see the continuous blackmail between the state and the county council tied to the economy. As the red-greens move large parts of the road network from the state down to the county councils without getting the roads ready and without sending enough money, they created a black-and-white game where state politicians say they have too little money and can't do anything, and where the losers are the inhabitants who have a bad name because one has given priority to others in the county councils – one has spent money on operas, politicians' wages, elephants and things that the inhabitants aren't as excited about, as well as a well-represented and a well-informed school. And the same thing with the ferry responsibility: moving the ferries from the state to the county municipality, and we now see the result: We have a ferry uprising because it has been too expensive because the county municipalities have given priority to other things. We're in a situation that's demanding. Land policy is another example: state policymakers act as over-municipals and give way to local priorities, and it is a major problem. Therefore, I am sure that the best thing for our country would be to follow the Progress Party's proposal to bring this level down. Someone's asking me what's the replacement, and it's in the heading. It's stronger local democracy. We want to move more tasks down to the municipalities and thus strengthen the districts, so that they can take more decisions and not need an over-municipality, which the county council has largely been. The second proposal we are debating is, of course, to go contrary to our desire to put an end to the county, simply to replace 11 counties with 19. It's not a good idea to have more of something we're against, so the Progress Party is against the counter-proposal. We had quite honestly hoped that we would hear to shut down the county council. In particular, the government includes: consists of a large party that has programmed it, we would not have believed that the Christian People's Party and the Left would win the matter internally in the government, and that we could get a plurality, but we see that the Right now leaves the two small decisions, and the Progress Party is therefore in favour of the proposal today. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5484	The representative of Helge André Njåstad has taken up the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5489	The last two speeches, from the Right and the Advancement Party, clearly show that this so-called regional reform is built on the truth, and that it is no good craft to improve neither the welfare services of the population, the services needed, nor to strengthen democracy. It shows that both the reform and not least the map that was drawn out is a compromise that no one really wants to defend. I have to send a visit to the representative Tveiten Benestad, who is asking for predictability. Yes, then I expect the Right to put away its program, which says that now the county council will be shut down – because it is the Right Program. This is also the programme of the Progress Party. If you've helped redraw the map of Norway for nothing, then to put it down on the first occasion, I have to say that I want to ask myself to talk about predictability. SV has always been against forced marriages, whether in the case of people, counties or municipalities. That's a bad starting point for living well together. The reason why we've taken this up is that it's going to be possible for the county councils that have been coerced to have the opportunity to dissolve. That is why we have also formulated the proposal today that they should be able to implement a new election together with the 2021 Grand elections. Yes, it's very bad time, this opportunity should have been right away. I had hoped that the parties who have been involved in these unfortunate decisions would have realized that it was wrong, and opened up this possibility. Yes, this has cost a lot, but it gets the jam the parties that have implemented this, take responsibility for it. If you have to correct the faults, it may cost something, and the Storting must also be able to take over. I was there when the government had a proposal to take from the county council tasks such as public transport and secondary school – that was a suggestion. I remember that hearing in the committee very well. At least there was a whole business life there and said that we never had to figure out that these were bad solutions that would not serve them at all. The government has been on the wrong track here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5506	Today, I am a temporary member of the Bransdal representative who is attending the planned hospital treatment. In the last growing-up period, I had the pleasure of sitting on the municipal committee, and I now see that there is a constant rematch. Today there are two Document 8 proposals – one from the released prisoners in the Progress Party, as they have called themselves. I am not a little surprised, because the Progress Party was very constructive and solution-oriented while they were in government. What is the true face – a constructive and solution-oriented social party or the face of the player, as one now sees more often? Then we have SV's proposal, which is a variant of the Center Party's endless rematches, which opens doors. The partitioning law already regulates in a good way who can take the initiative and who decides. Should it be so wrong that several county councils want a rematch, they have the opportunity to request an investigation of a new merger or division. SV thus also uses the Stortinget representative proposal scheme as a game, and it is usually not the characteristic of SV as a serious opposition party. That being said, I can't let my mind go back to the reform dynamics in 2015 and 2016. If one had been more focused on finding broad compromises for the country's best, we would have saved ourselves for all of this. It is a good tradition in Norway for us to build on reforms introduced by a large majority, in whole or in part against the will of parties – this being seen as the best possible for the whole, predictability and public use of resources. More parties than those who formed a majority at the time were in favour of regional reform with larger units than the former county municipalities, but there was no willingness to wide-ranging conciliation, despite repeated invitations. I can confirm that myself. It was primarily about the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which has seen the most useful fishing in angry water both then and later. Regional reform shifts power to popular regional political governance. Through regional discretion, more adapted solutions are provided, the funds are used more accurately, and it is not certain that what was tricked in Troms and Finnmark is the same as has been tricked in Agder. From the very beginning, it was said that the reform was a structural change that was to be further developed. This work has now started, and more tasks need to be put in place. The government has invested large sums of money in the reform, and thousands of employees have shown great ability to adapt and have a new employer and a new place of work. Putting processes back into game now will be irresponsible simply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5519	After several articles where costs are mentioned, it is tempting, when you look beyond the glass-ceilings, to say that yes, democracy costs. Regional reform has been discussed and dealt with several times in this Chamber. On 1 January this year, the reform became a fact. It's now eleven counties in the country. But the reform has not even worked for five months until it is again up to discussion. Regional reform is about how to organise our regionally elected level in a way that provides the best possible services for citizens and businesses, and that provides opportunities for growth and development across the country. The counties have gained greater professional environments and can now pool their resources and competences to increase their capacity. The counties are thus even better equipped to provide good services to residents and businesses. We have transferred tasks and instruments to county councils in key areas: transport, competence, integration, industry, environment, public health and agriculture. These are important areas where county municipalities already have a lot of responsibility, and which the counties can now see more in context. In this way the county councils become stronger community developers. Today, the Stortinget deals with two representative proposals – or, in fact, many more than that – but in this particular case two representative proposals: one that the government should establish mechanisms for abolishing county mergers for the states that want to do so, and one that would end the county to cut red tape and bring services closer to the population. We already have a mechanism on the question of the division of states – the law of division. The division law has the necessary rules on the process of changing borders between municipalities and counties. It follows from the law of division that the Grand Duchy decides on the aggregation and division of counties, and it is the Grand Duchy that must adopt any changes in the state structure. It also follows from the law that the counties may promote applications for the initiation of a divisional inquiry. If the Ministry receives such an application, the Ministry will ensure that matters relating to the department's assessment and recommendation are promoted for the Stortinget. I believe it is important to respect the decisions taken in relation to regional reform. Extensive efforts have been made in the counties to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy on county mergers. The winding-up of the county as a administrative body will have a major impact on the division of tasks in Norway. As there are still many small municipalities in Norway and the generalist municipality principle is underpinned, there are restrictions on which tasks can be transferred to the municipalities. The county councils are currently responsible for many major tasks, and from 2020 they have been responsible for even more tasks and instruments. In the event of a closure of the county level, more tasks will have to be transferred to the state, not the municipalities, and thus the task solution will be placed even further from the inhabitants than today. It is time we set the finish line for the re-commitment of majority decisions in the Grand Duchy on the merger of county councils. Then there will be a time for evaluation and assessment of whether we have achieved the objectives of the regional reform. Until then, I believe that we should all base the new state structure, look ahead and use the forces to ensure that everyone has access to good services regardless of where they live. Only then will the county councils be able to develop the county for the benefit of citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5542	Now it is that neither the council nor his predecessors have been particularly eager to throw tasks after the county councils. On the contrary, they have had to be dragged off by farms towards the goal that the county councils, these regions, should at all be given new tasks. Int. 278 S writes the members of the Committee from the Right and Christian People's Party: ‘The whole purpose of the reform was to shift power to popular regional political governance, thereby ensuring both more democracy and effective regional policy discretion.’ Can the Council of State give a few examples of how there has become more democracy and effective regional policy discretion for the citizens of the Week?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5554	I can tell the representative Lauvås what tasks and instruments have been transferred from 2020, and then the representative can settle his own opinion if he thinks it is satisfactory. We have transferred administration of county roads, management of grants for the development of broadband, ownership and management of fishing port facilities, grants to non-governmental airports, labour market measures for intra-corporate training, grants to county partnerships for career guidance and associated career centres, residency within counties and other regional coordination of integration policies, grants for Jobbsjansen Part B, mentoring and training schemes, grants for institution training for immigrants, management of grants for health care, learning and mastering, inter-disciplinary work in the field of drugs, tasks in the field of higher education and security of the state, tasks in the field of culture, contracting authority towards Siva and Innovation Norway for five industrial schemes, the business environment programme, the programme of incubation, business networks, mentoring services, nationwide establishment grants, management of agricultural research and organisation measures, development of regional economic activities in agriculture, management of coastal resources and management of projects. The Arctic 2030 shall be managed by the Municipality of Troms and Finnmark County, the Secretariat of the Regional Northern Region Forum, the Management of Grants to the Kvinna Language and Culture have been transferred to the Municipality of Troms and Finnmark County.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5561	When I listened to the post of the Council of State, it sounded as if there was something that really seemed to be a good idea, having county councils. It may well be that the Council of State does not have the same experience as all of us who have bid in a municipality and who have had the county municipality over them, all the time he has had his work in Oslo, which does not have a county municipality over it, but has been able to take responsibility for the entire course of continuing training, collective transport and actually lived by the two-tier model. My question is whether it is actually the compromise of the government, as the Council of State now tells us, or whether it is such that the Right sincerely thinks it is wise to organize the country on three levels. Will a few debates be held towards the next choice on program formulations, or does the Right Party still think that it has a program fix, and that we also have a program fix, that organizing the country at two levels is adequate and advisable to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5568	It is tempting to remind the representative Njåstad that the Progress Party was in government when this reform was launched. My starting point is that it's been less than five months since we got a new regional structure in Norway. There's been a great job locally, and a lot of people have been through a big shift. Then we owe those who have been through that transformation, to give them the chance to actually be able to do their best for the inhabitants and businesses of the new structure. Then there's no doubt about where the Right primary position is, it's in our program. And then I want to add that the assumptions for the proposal that the representative has are probably going to be a completely different type of municipal structure than what we have today. Because even with the community reform, it is still the case that very many municipalities are small, and too small to take over the type of tasks that county councils currently manage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5577	The Council of State had a long summary in the reply to the representative Lauvås. One of the challenges for the states is that they have not been given the means to carry out these tasks. Can the Council of State clarify how many annual work the State spent on these tasks, and how many annual work the counties have now received funding to carry out these tasks that they have been assigned?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5584	The counties have been transferred the same funds as the country previously used for the tasks. The purpose of this task transfer is not to make it more expensive to operate the same services, but to ensure that we move the services closer to people. – So this has not been a reform to save money for the state, because the same money that was previously used in the state budget has been transferred and follows the tasks that have gone to the states.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5589	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5596	The three levels of government of Norway were both confirmed and confirmed almost three years ago with the support of the Progress Party. Since then, we have been subjected to a regional reform, with its groupings, a reform that has not all been equally enthusiastic about. But the county councils have dealt with the challenges of reform in a good and responsible way, and they have to pay tribute to it. The county councils have pointed to some of the impossibility of their new portfolios. It is consistent that they have been transferred new tasks without sufficient funding. From Northern Ireland, for example, I can mention once again the responsibility for fishing ports and cultural heritage. At the same time, we now see that the major tasks in the field of child protection and culture are not going to happen, and maybe you can say fortunately. Although the Centre Party is critical of coercion and several other aspects of regional reform, the proposal to wind up the county councils is not a better option. As mentioned earlier, it may seem incomprehensible when a party first participates in a very intrusive and very costly reform and a few months after the merger is a fact, proposes to lift the whole level. The Progress Party would like to talk about the unnecessary use of public funds, but if this proposal were to be given a majority, it would remain an example of public waste. It's often easy to be fooled by the sweeping headlines. The Centre Party is also concerned with cutting red tape and bringing services closer to the citizens, which is part of the text of the proposal, but we will do so in a more credible way. We have to understand that cutting the intermediate level does not reduce the distance between citizens and authorities, rather the opposite. With all due respect for all the competent small and large municipalities around the country, I do not expect them to take over all the county tasks, such as fast boat and ferry and other public transport, responsibility for all roads, for higher education and training, etc. The proponents from the Progress Party confuse the lack of press service here in the storeroom with the fact that county municipalities are redundant, while I think that it is a sign of good craftsmanship and, in general – though not always – that one can do his tasks without doing it in a very uplifting way. All tasks that local authorities will not be able to undertake must become state-owned. I believe, then, that large parts of the population in our long-term and diverse countries will feel at a real greater distance from decision-makers and the corresponding low impact capacity. For many, the counties are already experienced as more than enough today, while today there is already a certain common understanding of the reality of the people living in their own county.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5611	Our democracy is based on the people deciding who to represent them. Everyone in this room is elected by the people and represents them in the best possible way. But coercion is a poor democratic tool. In my opinion, coercion is a violation of the trust we have between the inhabitants and the elected people. After working for two decades as a developing democracy, I react very much to this decision. Municipalities, county councils, KS and population growth have spent many years spending time, money and knowledge increasing the contribution of citizens to building democracy, because a dynamic democracy is particularly important for us not to be the opposite. The most difficult part of participation is effective: giving power away is very difficult and a challenge for politicians and many others. For parties belonging to an ideology based on the individual individual’s right to choose, there is a strong contrast to coercive decisions. The reform of the region would strengthen the county councils with new tasks and would provide them with an even more important part of the administration. But what happens? Well, the counties have been given new tasks, but neither resources nor wage earners are involved in these tasks. One example: parts of the territory of the Riksantikvar were transferred to the county municipalities, in terms of both cultural memories and our cultural heritage. For Viken – to take an example – there are five posts transferred, but the remuneration transferred from the government is NOK 292,000. Culture was not transferred. Child protection was not transferred. It seems more and more that regional reform is a good way to save money. SV wants a democratic system where coercion does not belong. We will give the states the freedom to decide their future. That is the best thing for our democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5622	There is talk of unsustainable rematches in this case. Well, when the first fight we had was so unsuccessful, when there are so few who are satisfied with the outcome of that fight, it's probably the duty of the representatives to look at this again. I want to say something about a region, perhaps the most illogical and unsustainable of them all, namely the deformed smoldering Viking lying around Oslo on all sides. When there was a red-green majority in the Week at the last election, one entered the political platform that the Week was a little appropriate construction. They said it carefully, but they elaborated it quite strongly afterwards. SV has voted against all the coercive associations of municipalities and counties, but when the Progress Party left the government and there were some signals from the Progress Party that they might be able to support a reversal or a new solution of these coercive associations, so SV an opportunity for a majority to change before a new majority sees the day's light next year. That is one of the backgrounds of SV's proposal. But as you know, the Progress Party would do it differently. Instead, they come up with a strange demonstration proposal that they know there's no support for in the hall now, that's to remove all the county councils, that's this intermediary. The SV and the majority of the committee believe that the proposal for dissolution should come from county councils – it should be lacking. The idea is not that we should once again have three roll-down decisions on people, on regional politicians. We want to follow the principle now as before, that it is the wish of the county councils to be followed. But with SV's proposals, we will facilitate that this could happen in a way before a decision is taken. It is sad to see that so much money, so much time has been spent on so much irritation and wear, and evening and night hours in the administration have been spent collecting the three counties to one. The 1.2 million inhabitants of the Week, a huge region on both sides of the Oslo Earth, are so unambiguously illogical, and I have to say that there is no match between many of these levels. The division of administrative seats is completely different, health regions, police districts, county offices, church regions – and the whole of civil life, not to mention it. All of those thousands of organizations have a different division than the Week. Everyone in this room -- I'm sure of it -- all parties must have noticed how incredibly heavy it has been to work in this region. What are the long-term costs? I don't think anyone defends this, except for the left maybe, but they're probably used to having one leg in each camp, sail if it's even a fjord in between.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5636	The representative Njåstad from the Progress Party called for involvement with the county councils, but I would like to ask if it might have anything to do with realism in the proposal to put down the county council, because there aren't many who do. Nearly there is talk of ‘blacks in vessaka’, ‘ferry is a problem’, ‘increased rates’, ‘area and planning’, and he says that the county municipalities are over-municipalities. The fact is that this government has never given priority to strengthening the county councils financially, despite the fact that it has been said in beautiful words that they should have a stronger role as a community developer. Regional development funds are in practice zero out. If one were to lay down the county councils, I'm excited about how the Progress Party wants to organize the further education, public transport and road planning. Is it going to happen in every single municipality? For me, coming from a small municipality of 2,300 people, it's a challenge. The answer is probably that we should fight together. I can promise the representative Njåstad that the commitment around the regional reform is increasing in my county. In Oppland and Hedmark, which were coercively merged into the Inland, in December 2019 there was a poll that showed that only 29 pst. was positive to that contraction. The law of subdivision has been mentioned here. That's good, but maybe it should be a law against coercion, too, because I react a little to a simple saying that it's a law of division, so one is free to search, while one is initially combined with coercion. The government uses the term ‘whole country’ at the time of the day and often every day, both in terms of distribution and in others. Maybe a rather should listen to the whole country instead of using beautiful words that we have a stronger role. I think I have a lot of people with me that the county councils don't feel like they have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5651	Tom Stortingssal, empty pressebenk – it is a sign of little interest in the county municipality, the representative Njåstad interprets it as. That's not right. The fact that there are few people in the room, and that the press leg is empty, suggests that both big politicians and journalists have revealed this proposal as a huge bluff from the Progress Party. There can be no serious doubt about it after Njåstad continues to demand a strong Right, which he criticises for letting the small parts decide. I just wonder who allowed the small parties to decide when this regional reform was adopted, because then the Progress Party put it in government. Then we saw no proposals like this, then we heard no such flaming speeches from the Progress Party on this. No, then there were rather flaming speeches for a regional reform, which the Progress Party at the time thought was completely sovereign. They thought it was very good, and they stood completely behind it when they sat in government. That's what we heard. So the question of who it was that then ran the Progress Party, comes in after all. We all understand that it is fun for the Progress Party now to be able to do some self-realization, after they have come out of a period of government that they refer to as having been in prison. So I understand that it's tempting to swing a little, but it doesn't make the suggestion of a less bluff than it is. We don't want to be lectured by the Right about taking rematches. We don't want to be taught by the Right about it, because if there's anything on the Right is good, it's taking rematches. I'm going to mention two examples that keep repeating themselves. It's the fight to privatize the Norwegian health system. It keeps on right with it all the time. And that's the rematch to weaken the law in the Work Environment Act. It's also going to work on the right with all the time. So if there's someone doing rematches, it's the right. We don't want to be lectured by that party when it comes to rematching. I can use the opportunity to ask for an answer to what I asked for. I did not ask for a quote from the Council of State in the reply of which tasks had been delivered. I asked how this has strengthened democracy and the exercise of discretion in the regions. It was one of the main arguments, and it's also mentioned in the setting. The representatives of the Right and Christian People's Party have written it in the Inner East. 278 S for 2019-2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5662	I took note of the fact that the Council of State outlined various tasks. Other representatives were up here and explained that yes, it's okay to frame it up. But when you get both jobs and jobs transferred, but not money, it's hardly a reinforcement. We have just had a hearing in the municipal committee on the local economy, where this goes on again: what tasks you are given and that it is not financed, and it is a weakening of a level that is given a task, because then you cannot do the task well. I suspect the Right Party and the Advance Party to keep it in mind, that they want it to look like it's going bad, and then they get an argument for shutting down the county councils, because that's what they want. I've been on this round from the very beginning. What did that start with? Well, the government proposed that the county should lose dental health, and that both high school and public transport should go to the municipalities. I don't know what was left then, but it was the government's proposal on how this strengthening of the regions should take place. Some of the important tasks for which a state level is very well suited are precisely these tasks – because you have to be big. And that was the hearing I referred to in my previous post, where the NHO Service and Trade and many of the public transport operators were in a big hearing and said that this was actually the most nonsense they'd ever been at. Now we're going to sit and negotiate with a lot of municipalities, they said. There's enough wrong with so many of them now, with the large resources going to the public transport bidding rounds. These are tasks that require large geographical areas to be properly managed. The geographical areas are also required to have both urban and rural areas, so that some also take into account the districts. Another important task that the county councils could be very well suited to solving is regional policy development – skills and business development. What happened there? Well, the government has halved the funds and limits them so that the county councils can't do the tasks for which they're very suitable. And now, during the Korona crisis, it would have been absolutely excellent that they had had more regional policy resources and could have gone into and fine-tuned where the government's instruments fail to meet enough, both on the development of new businesses and not least on helping companies that are in crisis. But this does not want the government. They simply do not want a regional reform. They just later that, and these coercive mergers are part of that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5677	I'm inside as being now, at least I'm in Troms and Finnmark County. Even I come from Troms, but now I have become involuntary drum and finnmarking. It's a very demanding situation to be a politician in a coercive state, and we're very many who are very ready to come back to normal again. Because our county was created against the will of the people, and now we think it is important to abolish it, so that people can once again have confidence in politics and society. Firstly, the reform has not worked, for it was never appropriate to break up Norway in the way it did, without taking into account geography. Finnmark alone is a huge state, as large as Denmark. Troms and Finnmark are even more enormous. It's going to be hard to take the long distances when you're sitting down here. Secondly, the main argument for aggregation was that the county authorities wanted to do more and more tasks, and that larger regions were needed to do so. As a county politician, I have seen little about the new tasks that were framed. The result we are seeing today. Some counties, such as More and Romsdal with 248,000 inhabitants, passed, while the new Week, with over 1.2 million inhabitants, was found. And where's the new problems gone? The fact is that the states have become so uneven that the government can't possibly give all the states more and more tasks. We from SV in Troms and Finnmark went to the elections to reverse the merger because we believe it is a bad idea for both parties. We see that no one wins, and that we all have everything to lose. The people have spoken. No one wants this regional reform any more – at least of all the inhabitants, and very few in this room as well. The people who live there and know the conditions are the ones who know best what kind of challenges the different states have, and they should be listened to. I want to be a good neighbour of the Finnmarkingenen, but I don't want to be a forced teammate. We have a lot in common that we can work together on, but we have to figure that out for ourselves. It's pretty bad mood when you're forced into action. It is much more constructive and pleasant when you can take the initiative yourself. The elected representatives in the north were told by the voters last year: 39 out of 57 representatives in Troms and Finnmark County will not have a large group in the north and will now be working for suspension. Now we are invited to ensure that the suspension is done in a better, more responsible and safer way than the merger was carried out. Then good processes become important where you listen to the people. A good society is not best created by just politicians. With a proper suspension process, we can ensure that it costs no more than it has to, and that we are soon back to normal conditions in the north. It's never too late to turn. The counties will return home, and we think that is reasonable and necessary. Finally, I just want to say that luckily we are advised to leave in Norway this year, and then I hope that many people here take the trip northwards. Unfortunately, we don't have trains, but we can live in beautiful nature, pleasant people, high mountains, long fjords, good fish and distances that can provide more knowledge of the big country we live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5706	In my first post, I asked the representative Njåstad to clarify where the tasks of these new county municipalities were to be solved, and I understood the representative that it was the municipalities that were to solve the new tasks. But he skillfully went around the main question: are there today's municipalities that are going to solve those problems? Are today's municipalities big enough for that? Or does the Progress Party see a massive coercion of large regional municipalities to take over the new tasks? Or today's municipalities are able to take on high school, public transport, etc.? In his article, Njåstad said that those who went to reverse, i.e. say yes to the dissolution of forced mergers, would go from 11 to 19 county municipalities. The Center Party has never suggested that, and I've never heard anyone else suggest it either. So where he got it from, I don't know. What we have said is that we want to dissolve the county councils who themselves say that this is a dysfunctional structure that does not work for the service production they are set to provide. It's the one who wears the shoe, as best how to organize it. Many of these mergers were voluntary, and no one has suggested that anything be done about the voluntary mergers, which are otherwise successful precisely because they are voluntary, and because they are wanted by local politicians. The centre party will further develop the county municipality, not liquidate it. The aim of the regional reform was to gain more power for the regions and more tasks for the regions. Now child protection is canceled, cultural tasks are canceled, and I hope the Council of State can explain what new tasks he intends to replace it with, because there were some of the premises also for the states that joined together voluntarily. There would be less state domination and more power to the states. Then maybe the states should also have the power to think something about the structure of their own state. Not least, I am very disappointed that the state has now overrun the states by imposing free schooling on all states, which makes it difficult to maintain the school structure, demanding to maintain the line service – they have tied the states on their hands and feet. Finally, the financing of these tasks: I don't think there was a single county council at the hearing on the municipal proposition in the municipal committee that didn't point out that they were heavily underfunded on the tasks they've been given. This is probably also the main reason why the county councils are working hard to conclude agreements with regard to fishing ports. Because they see that when they get new tasks, they get half as much to finance them as the state has used when it carried out that task.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5719	The centre party is clearly of the opinion that self-government and local democracy should be strengthened. Municipalities should have a greater degree of administrative power in many areas, and we must avoid overstepping central laws and regulations. There's a strong urge in today's governance to make everyone fit into the same box, and the incomprehensible fascination for New Public Management makes many people think that everything is good just that it's measured and reported frequently enough. In general, we need to have more confidence that people are actually doing the job they're telling them to do, and that's not least in the public domain. At the same time, we must not forget that the county councils are also municipalities, and they provide extensive services to the population. The Progress Party clearly believes that political compensation is wasted money, but the total for the whole country, as referred to in the proposal, corresponds to the Nordic county municipality, for example, spends annually on culture, the environment and public health – and both are well spent. How much is 300 million? kr represents as a percentage of the total cost of the regional reform, some others have to answer. State politicians across the country do a great and important job for their citizens, and they have a great responsibility. It is claimed that the inhabitants have no connection with the county municipality, but I dare at least to claim that very many people have a strong relationship with the services provided. Besides that, the missing x-factor of state politicians might be understandable. Local politicians are very visible in their community. Storing politicians — at least some of them — are probably most familiar with calculating, while state politicians fall a little between two chairs. That doesn't mean they're not doing an important job. It is the state politicians who have to review when offers have to be cut, but it is also the same who stand on the barricades and fight for their demands in response to central government powers. I believe that municipalities in large parts of the country will have great challenges in getting understanding and support for their demands, if they cannot also get help from the county council with which they cooperate well. We have all the experience that the county councils are actively working against Stortinget, and it is easy to see that the situation will be more difficult for many without this influence. The Central Party believes that today's three levels of government need to be continued. But we also believe that red tape needs to be reduced. We believe that self - control must be strengthened and that trust must be built. A living local democracy strengthens activity throughout our country, and is that what we need now, is to use the whole country and value the opportunities that exist and that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5732	The next speaker is Helge André Njåstad. The representatives can also use the pulpit on the floor, if desired.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5737	No, I liked this speaker chair best, and I would like to answer some of the questions raised by the Progress Party in the debate. If I got hurt to say that an automatic return to 19 county municipalities, it is because I am used to the fact that the centre party always wants things as they always have been. I'm sorry if I allow the arguments in this case that are not in line with that principle. But I'm at least recording that they want more county municipalities than we have today, and that's a step in the wrong direction. It is also interesting to hear the representative, Mr Lauvås, say that our proposal is a bluff. It is not unlikely that a party which has a program-determined closure of the county council will propose this. When the largest party in the government wants to meet the proposal and have the same programming, one cannot say that it is a bluff. When four parties work together, the programming of the two largest ones could be associated with policies, not the program of the two smallest ones. Then I also record that when one is going to tell the history of the regional reform in the previous period, it gives the impression that we put in government and therefore had great feelings for this reform. The reform was initiated by Stortinget. The government proposed nothing. It was an initiative from the Stortinget, and we were very clear that it was the Left and Christian People's Party's initiative and they say. When one said that we defended it with insight, I thought, can this now vote? So I went into the minutes and checked what I said at the time. There was no feeling to trace in the post, I was actually very honest and clear that this was the Christian People's Party and the Left's saying. Had it been up to us, I said at the time, we had done it with two levels, and there was actually so little enthusiasm in the post that when I was challenged if I really thought it was a good idea, I said it was a matter that was lost, but that as long as it wasn't multiple for our primary position then either, it was better with 11 of what we were against, than 19. In addition, when it comes to storytelling, I thought it was strange that the red-greens gave an impression in the debate that they had no seat in government and had a government council called Åslaug Haga, who made the regional announcement, which spent several years on distributions for fewer county municipalities. I would recommend the representatives to go into the history books and read the history of the red-green regional reform, which still has a lot of work to do, and that one on the rise find out that one is approaching a choice, and that one should not suggest anything that the inhabitants wouldn't have. They had been working for it for many years, but then one pulled itself on the rise side. One led over a few tasks, and we know history – that one got, was a path that was foolish and not maintained, and ferries that were difficult to manage new contracts. The history of the red-greens is in no way such that one should make himself tall and dark, and from this speaking chair, draw an image of another party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5750	It is quite correct, as the representative Njåstad says, that the transfer and reform that dealt with county roads has ridden many county municipalities like a mare for many, many years. Fortunately, it has also been a reinforcement of the county road network, so that some of the maintenance work is taken again. Then the representative tells Greni that we must listen to those who have shoes on. That's absolutely true, we should actually do that. That's a little bit of a reason why I'm taking the floor, because there's a very unsound debate here. When we've been on committee, we've met, among other things. in the Week, in the West and in several other places, who have said, "Now they have to calm us – yes, we are against it, but they have to give us rest, we have to get the chance to do this, they must not fight back. So I'm completely in agreement with Greni, we have to listen a little bit to those who have shoes on and let people get the chance to make this work in a good way. So named representative Karin Andersen that it had been up to a hearing here that many complain about the level of income, and that the tasks were underfunded by the state. But she did not mention that in the hearings – we have had hearings about the ferry economy as well – also found that the biggest factor in the county economy and ferry pricing was that they had introduced AutoPASS, and they had introduced new vessels long before the time to change ships went out to build green new vessels. Something came from the green shift, but the very greatest cost came from AutoPASS, which they had chosen, and which the state may not have imposed on them. So it's not that everything is necessarily so underfunded. It's very much about how the county itself has prioritised, and it hasn't come out well in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5761	I have to admit, there's more than one line to the last speaker. It can't be said that it's the county councils' poor care of the county roads that makes us say we have too little severance. Well, it's this room right here, based on a plural government that decides on the budget, and that accepts the transfers, and when you look at the proposal for the NTP, you can't exactly say that the county I'm from, it's going to be credited with as much distinction as we say, that means money. So I couldn't keep commenting on it, because this is just about how much distinction we have to do the problems we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5767	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 23 and 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5784	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5791	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for constructive treatment, despite major political contradictions. It is so that in none of the proposals in the matter there are proposals for solutions that are going to have a majority, and I will leave to the respective parties to speak for their views on this matter. I also record that the responsible State Council is not present in the Chamber during this important treatment, which I think is unfortunate. I would like to speak in favour of the view of the Progress Party on this matter. There has certainly been enormous pressure on the political parties. It's hard to resist when the media run an unhealthy campaign journalism to get just one side of the case. It takes a backbone to stand up to misinformation and disinformation in these difficult cases, and I was very happy that the large parties in Norway were faced with a responsible and sensible policy, namely that it is not a good solution to pick up asylum seekers from Greece to Norway. Norway has tried this. The result was that the situation did not improve. The situation is now worse than before. But first take the Workers' Party: they stood first at a responsible and sensible position, but turned the reel around and went away from the fact that we were going to bet on quota refugees. They said in the media that they would increase the number of quota refugees, and they would be picked up from Greece. I know that the Labour Party politicians have more insight into this matter than they did. There are no quota refugees in Greece. There are no quota refugees The Labour Party has planned to pick up 500 pieces, it is asylum seekers with an unsolved need for protection. We are used to having some parties that always have an irresponsible role or a irresponsible policy in these fields, which will always – uncritically – pick up more, regardless of whether it will help or not. But when the Right today announces that they are also turning around and going away from the responsible and reasonable positions they have had, I am upset and disappointed. We already know that it is no help that by saying yes to pick up asylum seekers, more asylum seekers are lured out on a dangerous journey to end up in a hopeless situation in crowded camps. The worst thing is that what the government parties have now agreed on is far worse than the Labour Party's solution, because the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Centre now want to take the help of those who absolutely need it, namely quota refugees, and transfer it to asylum seekers with a questionable need for protection. I find it hard to question people's intentions, but it's quite obvious that here some parties have been pressured to choose solutions that they know are not reasonable. Taking the help from those we know the most needs it, and giving it to asylum seekers with an unexplained need for protection, which will only lead to more people being lured into a dangerous journey and more will end up in a hopeless situation, has nothing to do with solidarity. It's about taking completely different interests. The working party has chosen its solution to calm down the muddles in its own rows after the protests against the responsible line, and the Right has chosen its direction to be drawn from its collaborators. It is alarming that we have a government that allows parties such as Red, Christian People's Party, Left and SV to control immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5806	Asylum and refugee policy is one of the most demanding policy areas, which can sometimes be seen as an impossible task for the world to solve. Unfortunately, there is no room for many shades of public vocabulary either, and regardless of political decisions, there will be many millions of people living in a completely unworthy and hopeless situation. For it is refugee children in Bangladesh, it is refugee children in the Bekaa valley in Lebanon, and it is refugee children in Moria. Therefore, as responsible politicians who want a fair refugee policy, we must build our actions on some guiding principles. Norway shall belong to the countries which will contribute to a solidarity of refugee policy. It is both in our interest and in our moral responsibility. We're going to be a clear voice for those sitting at the bottom of the table. In a world where 30 million people are refugees, we also need voices that speak for those refugees we don't watch on TV. Norway will be at the forefront of international solutions that ensure that several countries take their share of our shared responsibility, and we will be preparing for transit countries in Europe, but also for beneficiary countries that house millions of refugees, because that is where most refugee children live in the world, that is where generations are lost. There is a healthy debate on political solutions and how we should proceed. But what we've seen from the government lately is lack of action. Three weeks ago, in the Labour Party, we presented our proposals. Our solutions are based on our principles of a fair and predictable refugee policy. The main track shall continue to be quota refugees and the most vulnerable, in close cooperation with the UN. That is why we ask the government to take responsibility. Norway must resume the intake of quota refugees, which has stopped, in dialogue with the United Nations. This is about political will. When there are historically low asylum arrivals, there is also room for increasing the number of quota refugees. Together with the UN, we need to assess whether a share of the increase in quota refugees can include the relocalisation of asylum seekers with protection needs from Greece, as Norway’s response to a request from the UN. And even if the UN says yes, there will still be many people on the ground who will live in a hopeless situation. Therefore, we ask the government for a concrete plan for Norway’s international contribution to establish dignified and rights-based reception conditions in transit countries such as Greece. It involves quality assurance of asylum treatment, free legal assistance for vulnerable groups of asylum seekers, voluntary assisted return and reintegration of vulnerable groups. The fact that there are discussions is part of our political change of words both in parties and between parties, but the only government parties and their supporting parties have unanimously communicated in this matter is chaos that lies between them. The right-hand side says one day they're going to scrape the entire quota refugee scheme, and the other day they're going to keep the high number. The party demanded a cut in quota refugees to further support the government, so to speak, that it was not an ultimatum anyway. Christian People's Party Bondevik has pointed to everyone other than his own party, Christian People's Party says they will go to the opposition, but will not meet them. Yesterday they announced that they would make a proposal against their own government, but they drew it this morning early. The government has also acted dishonestly. They told Stortinget that they needed more time to talk to the EU and the United Nations, but it is clear that it was to buy time – because they are totally disagreeable. And they have misinformed us by saying that the UN and other actors are not on the ground and can help in Greece, and by saying that Norway does not have the opportunity to set any criteria for who might be relocated. They're now presenting a solution in 12 hours, which they could have done a long time ago. The Labour Party's proposals have been put on the table, and there they have been for a while. I would like to say to the government: what refugee policy needs is predictability and broad solutions in this room – and at a time when the country and the world are in crisis, the government must end up with the paralysis of action. We have plenty of challenges to solve, both nationally and internationally. With this, I would like to address the proposal on which the Labour Party is on its own, and the proposals we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5821	The representative Masud Gharahkhani has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5826	The toretal of the representative, Engen-Helgheim, is not credible. He's greedyly good at talking, but what they've been negotiating, and that's written on the Granavolden platform, he hasn't gotten along. It says: ‘The level of quota refugees must be seen in the context of other immigration and integration challenges, including any relocalisation from the EU.’ [[...]] It falls on rock floor, what he says in his post. The situation in Greece is quite acute. It is a humanitarian crisis, the reason why there are too many immigrants seeking political asylum in Europe. But almost everyone needs protection under the right of asylum. It is easy to become emotionally engaged. One is characterized by the images and the stories you see and hear from the camps in Greece and other parts of the world, for that matter. Right supports government's view. If Norway is to contribute to relocalisation, it should be part of a European and long-term solution and a permanent and binding regime for the sharing of responsibilities and burdens. Then, over the last few weeks, there has been a process in which more and more countries have joined the relocalisation initiative. For the Right, it is important to prevent others from embarking on a dangerous journey towards Europe. The government wrote to the Committee in its letter of reply that relocalisation cannot be excluded as a means of attracting Europe and thus contributing to the maintenance of the smuggling market. This is particularly topical and particularly unfortunate for single minors who are particularly vulnerable immigrants. There are about 5,300 single minors in Greece per day. 70 pst. of whom are from Afghanistan and Pakistan, and more than 90 pst. is a guy over 15 years old. It is also worth noting that there are very few young men between 18 and 23. Helping and protecting children who do not receive the necessary care is a wish that most of us have. The international community has a moral responsibility for people who are on the run. But it's legitimate to ask, how and where can a best help? It is so easy to argue that a good solution is to help most of the children in the camps out of the camps. The question is whether it is right in the longer term. Would such a solution give hope to other immigrants without the need for protection? So Norway volunteered – with the Progress Party in government – to participate in a relocation programme in 2015–2016, where we relocated 1,509 asylum seekers from Italy and Greece to Norway. There was no particular improvement in Greece for that reason. According to the European Commission, there were two EU countries, Ireland and Malta, which actually attracted as many asylum seekers as we were obliged to under the temporary relocalisation scheme in 2015–2016. In addition, Norway, Switzerland and Liechtenstein participated voluntarily. Norway also contributed to an adhocrelocation from Malta in the summer of 2018. So Norway has contributed many times, without Greece and the EU having put in place a permanent solution to the asylum management system in Greece. Norway has also contributed by handling the asylum applications for 970 people, who should have been treated in Greece. That means that 650 is processed, but Greece refuses to take them back, and 250 is left here in Norway, which Greece does not want to accept, and which may have to get its application processed here in Norway. During that period, we have also taken up 24 single minor asylum seekers. That the government today announces that one will contribute to the ongoing pan-European initiative to relieve Greece, begs to improve the challenge in the short term, but it is legitimate to ask whether this is the right thing in the long term. Often, there are options that are most demanding to stand in, which may be correct in the long term. That is why the Right wants a lasting solution to the challenge of the asylum-management system in Greece. We need pan-European solutions, which signal that if someone comes here for no reason to stop, they can't be here. Europe needs solutions that require those who are refused to return to their country of origin or to safe transit countries. If the Refugee Convention and the Asylum Institute are to work in the future, it is a whole dependent on the functioning of the system so that we can give protection to the people who need it and that this system is not being used for other purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5857	Norway contributes strongly to the reception of refugees. In the last five years, Norway has received 12,800 transfer refugees, which is a very high number compared to the population. In addition, Norway contributes funds to the operation of the camps in Greece and to the operation and reception of lone minors. The centre batch is dedicated to helping out as much as possible. It involves helping in the neighbourhoods as well as accepting some of the most vulnerable through the UN ETS. However, there is no doubt that the situation in the reception camps in Greece gives cause for concern. The camp is overcrowded. In March 2020, there were more than 37,000 people in five camps in Greece. They're dimensioned for 7,000. Moria is the largest of the camps. There are now 18,000 people, of whom 1 800 are children. The situation is particularly demanding for particularly vulnerable groups, and I am thinking in particular of young people under the age of 15 who are in the camps without caregivers. The centre party considers that the quota system through the UN should be given priority over other relocalisation solutions. The responsibility for the management of the situation in Greek clays lies primarily with the Greek authorities. However, with the precarious situation of covid-19 and the bursting capacity of the camps, in an extremely critical situation, it is necessary that a broad range of European countries assume joint responsibility and Norway should contribute. Due to the humanitarian situation, the Centre Party believes that Norway should accept some young people under 15 years of age through a one-off solution. With low arrival rates of asylum seekers, we have the capacity to do so. The protection of infectious diseases must be ensured. It is important for both the young and the Norwegian population. Priority must be given to the most vulnerable young. Therefore, the Centre Party proposes that Norway accept some of the lone minors under the age of 15 without carers under the following conditions: that there shall be a broad range of European countries agreeing on a reception agreement; that the breakdown is calculated according to population in the recipient countries Norway accepts lone minors under 15 years of age without care in the camps, preferably girls, who are the most vulnerable Norway engages in dialogue with the United Nations to assess who are the most vulnerable within this defined group; The Central Party believes that immigration policy is served by a broad political consensus. That is why we called for a cross-political discussion in committee, but there was no interest from the government parties in having a cross-political dialogue. Today we have become aware through the media that the government has agreed to relocate. We know little about what this is all about. There's nothing about the number. The central party believes Norway should relocate its relative share according to the population, i.e. Between 25 and 40, slightly depending on the number of countries contributing. Nor does the proposal say anything about age restrictions. We believe that it is the youngest who are the most vulnerable and that they should be given priority. It is also those who are most likely to stay in Norway, and it would be unfortunate if we, for example, receives 16-17-year-olds who are only allowed to stay temporarily and who are to be returned in the next round when they turn 18. Nor is there any mention of how many countries must participate in order for the government to see this as a broad participation from Europe. The representative Trellevik did not clarify any of these questions in his post, so I hope the Council of State will clarify it in its post. To the other proposals: the working party wants to increase the number of quota refugees despite the fact that we now receive a historically high number – three times as many as under the red-green government. The centre party believes that we must not accept more than that we are able to achieve good integration, which is demanding even with today's number. It is difficult to get everyone to work, and unemployment in the context of the coronary crisis will reinforce these challenges. That is why we cannot support the proposals of the Labour Party. The SV's proposal to accept 1500 – and I understand that it is in addition to the 3,000 quota refugees we have committed to – I believe it is unrealistic. Here, as many countries as possible in Europe must contribute. Norway cannot take responsibility for itself. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5898	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5903	There are a lot of refugees in the world, and most of them are in a poor neighboring country. Some of them also come to Europe. And let me make a statement right away: all the parties want to help as much as possible. There are no parties that want us to give protection to people who do not have protection needs. Everyone agrees. But I have to say that I am a little surprised by the majority here, who sit and know so hard who's in the refugee camps, and who doesn't have protection needs. I've been in many refugee camps, along with those who the representatives here tell me about, who have been there and seen how bad it is. Yes, it is. But there's even worse in the camps in Greece. It is also a humanitarian disaster on European soil. The question then is: is it in Norway's interest that Greece should collapse – a country that has been in economic crisis for ten years, which has been required by the EU and the World Bank not to hire public sector people and cut off the benefits of its own population, which is now under the pressure of having to house all these refugees? Norway has sent a lot of money to this, for many years, and we have got back over half. That's what this congregation knows. It's too much. It is in Norway’s interest to relieve the local population on the islands, who have had enough. It is in Norway’s interest to be on the solidarity side in Europe when a country is kneeling under the burden, and many kids are alone without schooling for several years, with a healthcare that is largely gone, no activity offer, no security and no care. It's very serious, and Norway can do more. I have fought for this long time. And I thought maybe there was now a solution from the government that I could be a little happy with. But then there's a solution that says: No, we're going to leave it to other European countries to decide whether Norway should do this. The government says there must be so and so many. I don't know if there's eight or ten that apply, and if there's seven then Norway won't do any things? What kind of reason is there for not helping? Is it in Norway's interest – that those who do not want to be allowed to direct the direction for which role Norway should take? I don't understand. There's nothing about how many, either. Does that mean that the majority that has formed here now, maybe believe that if you accept two, you have solved your job? Yes, two may be better than zero, but in order to contribute to this effort, Norway needs to do more, and we can because there are almost no asylum seekers coming to Norway now. I – and SV – believe that it is in Norway’s interest to do so, even if we are to strengthen the predictable arrangements that I hear more people in this room now want. What kind of framework do we have around us in this regard? Yes, it's the United Nations system. And so this National Assembly has weakened that system by not saying yes when the United Nations asks us for help. The UN has asked us to accept 5,000 quota refugees. It's been 3,000, a little bit more than before, but we haven't listened to the UN. The UN said to this Assembly: If you remove the reasonable conditions of refugee policy, you are breaking the convention. You didn't listen to the UN. You're weakening the predictability system you're calling for. Yes, war is terrible, and it will never be predictable for anyone, but then Norway must be conscious of its role as one of the countries that are committed to its obligations, both at home and outside. Now Norway is looking for a place in the Security Council, and we should be in the first place of those who defend the UN Conventions and the fragile, small network of civilization as it is, trying to tell us what to do when it's as difficult – not for us, but for the others. So what's the right thing to do? Well, then it's right to give protection to those who need protection. Norway has to do that, and then we have to listen to the UN. I'm addressing the proposals SV is behind today, and I hope the solution that the government has come to, means we're going to do something, but I'm afraid it can mean nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5924	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5929	There is a humanitarian crisis in the refugee camps in Greece that Norway has a joint responsibility for having arisen, for Norway supports the EU-Turkey Agreement, and the camps are within what is Norway’s Schengen external border in the south. We therefore also have an additional responsibility to help resolve the situation, both by helping to improve the situation in the camps and by helping to build up the asylum system in Greece, as we have done, and also to relocate the most vulnerable refugees. We must help people where they are, but also help those who cannot be helped where they are. The Community must take responsibility for contributing to the freedom of these people. A number of European countries, with Germany at the head, have gone ahead and undertaken to relocate and help out of refugee camps some of the most vulnerable children. I am very pleased that the government has decided that Norway, along with many other European countries, will do the same. International cooperation is necessary to address the major challenges, not least in terms of migration. European cooperation is needed to resolve the migration crisis in Europe, both in the short and long term. The EU Commission and the Greek authorities, in cooperation with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNICEF and other organisations, have established procedures for the relocalisation of the most vulnerable children and families, and more and more countries are taking responsibility and want to contribute. For the children in the Moria camp and in other refugee camps, it says about life, both here and now, and in the future. This case shows how important it is that someone is always willing to ask the unpleasant questions over and over again. We are now among those who are at the forefront of European cooperation, and it is an investment in cooperation that we need to strengthen in the years to come. Now we're on our way. I do not conceal that we have appreciated the involvement of individual opposition parties in this matter, and with it given the Left and Christian People's Party good backing on it as a collective government now stands behind. I am pleased that the government has determined that Norway should contribute, and consider that the explanation of how many children can be picked up and when this can happen can come quickly. There will be a lot to say for other European countries now waiting for what Norway and other European countries are doing, but it will have everything to say for those people affected by the clarifications that came today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5941	Today, the Christian People's Party is pleased that we have had an impact on the government for a solution that means that Norway is picking up vulnerable children and families from the camp in Greece. Norway shall contribute to a pan-European solution through the current relocation initiative. We have also been given a clearer definition of how to understand a pan-European solution. The Christian People's Party, together with the Left in the government, has worked hard for a solution in the matter. We have done this because we believe that the only right thing to do in the situation we see playing out in the Greek islands is to help, not only by providing funds to improve conditions in the camps – it has been important – but also by bringing vulnerable children and families to Norway. We wanted Norway, together with the other countries involved in the relocalisation initiative, to stand together and contribute to a solution. We wanted Norway to help take its share of the responsibility to help vulnerable children and families with children by relocate a fair share of them to Norway. We wanted Norway to help relocate vulnerable children who are victims of major crime, the choice of adults and great poverty, from the islands of Greece. We have a decision in the government today that shows that the government will too. We're happy about that. This matter is important, because an impact means that Norway continues to play an active role in finding good practical solutions that contribute to both international solidarity and efforts and stability. We have believed that this has been one of the core points of the matter. It is about vulnerable children and about vulnerable families with children, but it is also about the direction we want Norway to take in moving Europe in such issues. It is about the responsibility Norway chooses to take to influence in a humanitarian and solidarity direction, which can help countries in crisis and ensure that human rights are respected. Therefore, it has been important for us that Norway shows with action that we are a country that wants to achieve a common burden-sharing among European countries. This is what we believe Norway has had a long tradition of doing in both aid and immigration. The Christian People's Party believes that a pan-European solution is important. Today, according to the information we have received, 14 countries have promised to pick up vulnerable groups from Greece. This is a European initiative Norway cannot stand side by side, but we must show through active action that we are part of. At the same time, we believe that we should continue to work for a more permanent and long-term solution that can produce more of the strength of European cooperation in addition to the crisis that is taking place in the Greek islands right now. For us, it has never been about seeing one case detached from the other. For us, the prospect has always been to participate in European cooperation now, as part of an ad hoc solution, can also help to bring forward a more long-term and permanent European solution. This matter has been close to the political heart of the Christian People's Party – in fact, it is at the very heart of our primary policy. Our members and voters have not let us get peace one minute in this matter, and I thank them for that. I would also like to thank the municipalities who have set up and who have asked us to do this, individuals, organisations and everyone else who has contributed to clarifying the various aspects of this matter. For the matter, there are many sides, but no matter what question we have asked ourselves, no matter what perspective we have been presented, our answer has been: it is right to relocate vulnerable lone asylum seekers and vulnerable children's families from the camps in Greece to Norway through a pan-European initiative. We have shown for weighty reasons that we have thought it has been important to raise in a matter like this. We have a government that will now contribute to a pan-European solution through the relocalisation initiative together with a minimum of eight other host countries, and we have a realistic, feasible and sustainable solution that means that Norway will bring vulnerable children and children's families from the camps in Greece, which will have an overwhelming likelihood of staying in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5958	In the Moria camp, children sit without adults, without toys and without a safe trap, without any rest of their eyes on than garbage, concrete and the array of cot beds crowded with other children crying. They are barred from our Europe, from our Europe's agreement with Turkey, which means that Norway is now barely receiving asylum seekers. Moria is not just any refugee camp. Migrants and refugees here are on their way into Europe. Since 2016, the EU-Turkey Agreement, which Norway supports, has meant that migrants and refugees must remain in Greek islands for an indefinite period. Seven months ago, the Greek Minister of Emergency Service sent a letter to Norway. He asked us to accept lonely children from Moria. We need to act quickly to take care of them, protect them and prevent abuse, he wrote. Norway’s government said no, and a main argument has been that a pan-European solution is preferred. It sounds nice, and a binding agreement on both sharing responsibilities and safe refugee routes in Europe is something that green groups work hard for in the European Parliament. However, it is precisely because the EU has failed to reach agreement on a joint commitment, that countries by country now commit bilaterally with Greece, in cooperation with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, to evacuate children who otherwise do not receive help. The alternative is that the children don't get help, while adults in the dress are sitting saturation and sweating and pointing at each other. They believe, as the Right has done, that the children will only be evacuated if there is first an agreement that everyone knows it will take years to get in place, if at all you ever get it done. It's not just to mislead the public, it's also to make children into pieces in a big political game in Europe. Fortunately, 12 European countries have taken leadership and reported that they will contribute, and evacuation is so small. Today, the government parties in Norway have finally opened up to accept children from the Moria camp – but they do not say when, they do not say how many children, and they do not even say if Norway is actually going to receive someone, because instead they make it a condition that somewhere between eight and ten other countries will receive children before Norway will do so. It's completely incomprehensible to me – I don't understand. We're the one there the guy standing behind the window, looking down at the others in the dungeon of the courtyard and just waiting until all the others have met up, before we might rustle down, stammer our feet downwards and maybe grab a rake just to show that we're there. With all due respect, what kind of low message will it be to go to Greece from a rich country in the corner of Europe, a country that came out of the previous financial crisis exceptionally fortunately, to a Greece that is still in deep debt, from a country that is now under the corona pandemic, to a Greece where the infection spreads in refugee camps without proper sanitary conditions or a public health service – from a country with a lot of competence, capacity and will in the municipalities to receive refugees, to give them follow-up and opportunities, to a country that is now asking for our help? I have to say that I feel more and more of an attitude about some kind of Norwegian exceptionalism that I take a great distance from, and which is the opposite of the international solidarity that has given us the UN, given us human rights, given us peace in Europe and given the North to help those times in history it was we who needed help – our children who needed help. Representatives of government parties have also used the Corona situation as an argument against taking action. It has been said that there are practical difficulties, that we have enough of our own challenges. But several other countries have made it clear, so what makes it harder for us? Norway now has empty asylum facilities. The number of asylum seekers in 2019 was the lowest in 22 years, and this year almost none. In good days, the Right is talking about European solidarity. In this case, they contribute to weakening the European spirit of cooperation. Meanwhile, children are alone or with extinct parents in the Moria camp, and they have waited long enough now. Do as over a hundred Norwegian municipalities now ask: Evacuate the children from Moria now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e5981	Bringing out people suffering in the Moria camp is not something we should do instead of taking in quota refugees. We should do it because the camp is crowded, because we have room and resources for it, and because the Korona crisis reinforces the unsustainable conditions of the camp. The sea outside Greece is part of our common European external border, and it was never intended that Greece alone should take responsibility for all asylum seekers coming to Europe. The camps are a consequence of a failure of asylum policy in the EU and a failure of agreement with Turkey. Norway has co-responsibility for the situation of children stranding in refugee camps in Greek islands, and for refugees not being allowed to travel to the mainland from these camps, because we are part of the EU-Turkey Agreement. The camps are located within the Schengen external border of Norway in the south and the Moria camp is partly established by Norwegian EEA funds. We know that Greece is in a very difficult economic situation and a situation where fascist forces are growing stronger and the attacks on refugees are increasing. We have a responsibility to fight these cancers. The Dublin Agreement, which states that the country where the asylum seeker is first registered should also be responsible for handling the asylum application, does not work. This is what we see now when Greece gets the biggest burden because European countries, including Norway, continue to send people back to the first registered asylum country, which is Greece most often. Several parties promise that refugee children have a difficult situation also in other camps and in other countries, and that is quite right. But the situation of children in other parts of the world cannot relieve Norway of responsibility for what happens to children in the Moria camp, which is a consequence of agreements and arrangements we support politically and economically. That's why it's a derailment and not an argument that we shouldn't do what we can for those who suffer in the Moria camp. The government is calling for a pan-European solution. It may take a long time since we know that it is unlikely that all European countries will agree on a solution. The EU has been paralysed by the human crisis that is taking place, and we cannot wait for pan-European solutions that may never come. The government also had no plans to do anything until the coronary crisis broke out. They should be ashamed of that. This is a notified crisis that has been going on for too long. While Norway and other European countries have put an end to the suffering, several thousand children live under extreme, inhuman conditions. Now several European countries have decided to show solidarity. Norway should be among these countries. Norwegian People's Aid proposes to use the arrival centre to evacuate from Moria. It's built to quarantine people and it's about. 1 000 persons. In the short term, we can also use hotels or national colleges that are not in use because of the Korona measures, and we can use the expertise that Norway built up during the so-called refugee wave in 2015. The government's reason for not evacuating children from Moria camp is, in our opinion, clean and cutting training. Municipalities around the country have said they want to set up. A majority of the population supports the evacuation of the children. The government has no longer valid arguments; they run symbol policies. It is particularly disappointing that the Left and Christian People's Party does not follow their promises to help these children. Red will maintain two of our proposals: ‘The government is asking for European cooperation to relieve Greece by allocating refugees to other countries.’ ‘The government is asking Greece to provide relief by accepting lone minor asylum seekers and families from refugee camps.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6013	Would the representative like to address the Red's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6018	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6023	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6028	The conditions in the reception camps in the Greek islands give cause for concern. This affects particularly vulnerable groups such as children, both with and without a close family. The government therefore follows the situation in Greece closely. We do this in order to assess how Norway can best help. I understand that there is a broad consensus that Norway should assist Greece. The question is how. The challenges facing Greece are Europe’s challenges, and Norway’s best contribution is a demanding question. The government’s view is that the best solution is to ensure long-term solutions for Europe and Greece. The Government believes that it is essential to contribute to strengthening the Greek asylum and reception system. Norway, together with the EU and European countries, has provided extensive assistance to Greece in this regard over the past 10 years. Through the EEA funds for Greece, we have contributed more than 600 million. kr to contribute to a better and more efficient management of asylum and increased capacity in the reception system. Much of the effort is directed at vulnerable groups, as children. Centrally, there are about 300 reception points for vulnerable migrants on the mainland. We have also assisted Greece with personnel through EU support services and with equipment for Greek reception. There can therefore be no doubt that Norway is setting up. It also applies to relocalisation. Norway participated on a voluntary basis in the EU relocation scheme in 2015 and 2016. We were then among the very few countries that actually followed up what we had committed ourselves to. Based on this experience, the government wants a binding European quota system that provides a permanent allocation mechanism between all European countries. There was also the consensus in the Granavolden platform. The present initiative is not such a pan-European, lasting and binding solution. What we are discussing today is a separate initiative to relieve Greece of the difficult situation they have on the islands. Around 10 of the 27 EU Member States have agreed to relocate from Greece now, and with such broad participation, the government has come to the conclusion that Norway should take part in this initiative. However, the condition for our contribution is that at least eight to ten countries now willing to relocate actually relocate the number they have said. We will then give priority to vulnerable children and vulnerable families who are likely to receive a residence permit. These will be taken within the framework of the annual number of quota refugees the size has joined. There are a large number of refugees in the world today, including vulnerable groups that are further exposed as a result of covid-19. The main priority of the government is to receive 3000 quota refugees this year and next year. Of the refugees we accept on the quota, about half are children. They have a clear need for protection, they will be accommodated, they will be settled, and they will be integrated into Norway. I believe our main priority must be this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6043	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6048	The chaos in the government has been complete in this matter. The government has shown no political will to resume withdrawals of quota refugees. The government has misinformed the Storting that it is not possible to retrieve them with likely protection needs, any relocalisation from Greece. I have not read the procedures of the European Union, but, depending on what the Council of State has responded to, the Right-wing Immigration Spokesman has said. The government asked for a two-week postponement to talk to the European Commission, but refused to meet them, refused to talk to the opposition, refused to come up with a solution, and, soon after a month of chaos and internal disputes, it presented a 12 hour solution that does not even require a delinquency treatment. Then I must be allowed to ask the following questions: Does the Council of State think this is good political management, and what is the government really doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6055	I don't feel at all again in the reality that the representative describes, and I'm almost wondering if we've lived in each of our realities for the last few weeks. The first meeting of the European Union on this, to which I was invited, was on 11 March. That meeting I was at right after Stortingen's Question Time. On 12 March Norway closed down. It also did almost all of Europe, and quota refugee work was suspended. The boundaries were closed. Airports were closed. Flight didn't go. People didn't move across borders. UD's travel council to all our residents was that no one should travel unless it was strictly necessary. That was the actual situation. We have had a coronary crisis in this country. We have had that in Europe. We've had that in the rest of the world. This means that this work could not be carried out. However, we have participated every week in EU ministerial meetings related to both the Korona and the migration process. So it's not right that we didn't participate in this. We have also been in regular contact with the UNHCR to resume the quota refugee work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6063	I hear what the council says. I also record that the government has said that it is not possible to pick up quota refugees, but we know that it is about political will. And I have registered that the government has said for several weeks that Norway cannot participate in any relocation of asylum seekers from Greece because it is not possible to place leadership for whom we want to accept. But the UNHCR was quickly out there and said that this was not true, that the government was involved in misinformation. Today, the Council of State itself has presented a solution to pick up the most vulnerable children and those with the most likely to stay. Then I think it's important to get a clarification here today. Does the government believe that UNHCR is lying, or has the government misinformed the Storting in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6070	I have to take a strong distance from the claim about incorrect information. I have been asked if UNHCR is engaged in quota refugee work, quota withdrawals in Greece. Of course they don't. That is why the Labour Party's proposal in this matter is completely meaningless. We're going to have a lot of trouble picking up 3,000 quota refugees, and that's what the Workers' Party is saying, is that we're going to pick up 3,500. So it's like we're going to pick up people who sit, who are clear, in camps in Jordan and Lebanon, but we have to have people who can do this work. We need planes that go, we need airports that are open. That's why this is going to solve, but it's taking time, and we're delayed, and we're going to have trouble picking up 3,000 this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6077	In its submission, the Council of State said that the present initiative is not a pan-European commitment solution, which was agreed in the Granavolden platform. I wonder why you're going into it. Furthermore, I would like to refer to the letter from the Council of State on 29 April, a month ago. Among other things, it said: that there are no countries that have received as many quota refugees as Norway and that the Council of State considers that we still need to give priority to quota refugees. It says that any relocalisation in the current situation will be a short-term response, while the Council of State in its speech said that a long-term solution is needed. It says that in view of the corona situation in Norway, we cannot respond to such a request from Greece now. It also states that it cannot be ruled out that relocalisation can give an attraction to Europe – that is, quite good wording there. What has changed in one month, which makes the Council of States now still accept all that she argued so strongly against a month ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6086	I would like to allow myself to say that demanding loyalty to the Granavolden platform in a day like this is a little special. I have honestly explained that the initiative we are seeing today is not a binding and permanent scheme, but a broad scheme. However, what we have said is that we learned some of the relocation we carried out in 2016. It was that Norway was quite lonely about complying with our obligations. We were all alone – together with two other countries. We don't want to repeat that, because it doesn't provide sustainability, and it doesn't provide good solutions for those who live in Moria. I'm also very clear that our main priority is the quota system. It is an internationally recognised system. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees helps and contributes, inter alia: by selecting. That's the system we should fence around. But we will participate if a large number of European countries participate, in order to contribute to a solution for Europe. Norway must contribute to this, but we should not contribute to it alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6095	After a relatively chaotic treatment, where the government parties have quite different entrances to the discussion in the committee, this morning we received a press release that the government had now agreed to accept them. I had expectations that in this debate we would get some clarity as to what it was about. I don't expect an exact number, but can the Council of State say something about how many are involved? SV has proposed 1500, the Workers' Party has proposed 500. We have said that Norway should take its relative share, i.e. of the order of 25-40. We'd like to see a clarification of what's really in the consensus you've come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6100	I'm sorry I can't give a clearer answer, but that's because those answers aren't available right now. It's a very inconspicuous situation. It also shows this debate, where different representatives have come up with quite different information on which countries have said they want to relocate. What we know has happened is that Luxembourg has picked up 12 people, Germany has picked up 47 people. That's the number that's actually been relocated. We know that the initiative that has been launched has mentioned some 1,600 in total. However, Norway has not taken a decision on this, because we need to look at which countries, what commitments and what number this is about. We are very concerned to ensure that the people we may pick up from Norway are given a residence permit. We're not going to trick people into a trip to Norway, so they're going to experience being turned around when they get here. That would be terrible. We have to see how this situation, which is currently inconspicuous, evolves. And then we'll attend if a sufficient number of countries do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6109	There are a lot of games and speculation in this matter that you could comment on. I think it's a little sad that the Council of State repeats and repeats, as if it hasn't been everyone's opinion that the ones we're going to pick up are the most vulnerable and those who have an assumed need for protection. Everyone's meant it all the time. There's nothing the government has invented. It has been in the cooperation agreements that the United Nations has had with both the European Union and Greece all along. I'm concerned if something is happening right now. Now the Council of State says that there are only two countries that have evacuated. Others say it's a little bit more. The question is, if there are seven countries that have evacuated, should we still wait? Isn't it urgent to evacuate some of the children or maybe the three-year-old who lost her mother, who was stabbed in the camp, two days ago? How long has the government been going to wait to do something?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6116	I agree that we're all talking about vulnerable people, but I probably have a feeling that not everyone agrees on who they are. When we talk about minors, we know that the majority of those in the camps are boys aged 15-18 who are from Afghanistan and Pakistan. That's most of the minors. We are now awaiting a situation that has been inconspicuous, and it is still. We know that Luxembourg has picked up 12, and we know that Germany has picked up 47. That's all that's happened these weeks because we have a coronary situation. We can hope that this work will now be resumed. We're busy resuming the quota work. We have 1,400 people who are ready to go to Norway and settle. We hope to get that started soon. Then we have to look at how these countries that say they want to relocate, actually implement it. It's not a development we're controlling alone, but we're going to be involved in conversations about this, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6123	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6130	On an island south of Europe, there is a child — children on the run, children living under the worst possible conditions. Day after day, people in Norway have been fighting – fighting for the children in Moria. Day after day, as the country's elected representatives, we have been met by people who, in solidarity with the children of Moria, have stood outside the Stortinge and given us daily reminders of who this matter is really about. This was a solidarity act we had hoped to infect into this room. To those who have stood by, we in SV will say a thousand thanks. Earlier today we were told that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right will not bring the children out of Moria camp unless at least eight other countries do the same. What if only seven countries do that? What if six countries do that? Or what if all countries do like Norway and make the same demands as the Norwegian government does? Then no children are picked up by Moria. Should we really just sit still and look at the suffering? Why should the number of countries that will provide help to some of the weakest in the world today be what determines whether Norway should contribute? We could have contributed if we wanted. Over 100 municipalities in Norway have said that they are ready to accept children from Moria. They can. We can too – if we want to. There has been a lot of talk about personal conscience at Stortinget today. The representative by representative has used his personal conscience as a guide to the vote in the case of biotechnology. My question is, where has it become of that conscience? Where is the conscience of the weakest in this world? Did it disappear out of the staging doors this afternoon?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6141	This is urgent. Young people and families with children are physically confined in Greece and live under extreme conditions. More than 1,000 young people who are on their own without parents, have no one to help or protect themselves – think if it had been our kids. One third of the Moria camp are kids, and most are younger than 12 years old. It's a cruel and inhuman situation, with which we can do something. I'm not standing here and I think we should do everything, but I'm asking that at least we do something. The humanitarian crisis can be resolved politically if we make an effort. In Moria the kids have it cruel, and it looks dark to them. At the same time, we're sitting behind our glass seals in safe Norway without lifting a finger. That is the extent to which we accept refugees, despite the fact that we have both the money and the capacity to do just that. In recent years, the asylum sector has been systematically built up, and that worries me. Asylum reception is closed, and the municipalities are crying out to settle several refugees. We're sitting on skills that are barely needed any longer, and that can be useful if we just use it right and bring the kids from Greece home now. We can no longer sit here in the richest country in the world and close our eyes. We can go ahead as a good example, show solidarity, save lives, save kids – it's kids who are trapped, and we can help before the coronary virus comes to a camp without hygienic or medical conditions to accept it. I think it is unbelievably sad that there is no greater responsibility for this situation. The Christian People's Party and the Left cannot call today's solution to a victory. Not until the kids get here, they can say they're happy. Until then, this is nothing but a gigantic defeat for Norway and a huge belly pad for those in the government who say they are concerned with solidarity. Then we can just keep sitting here behind our glass-ceilings and talking about our spine as we hope for the best, hope that no more lives are lost, and that covid-19 does not spread among the most vulnerable in the world right now. And that's all but being brave, that's being cowardly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6153	For many years we have been warned of a disaster that affects the most vulnerable of us. In the Moria camp there are 5,000 children and young people living under conditions none of us have the opportunity to get into. 1,600 children live without caregivers — no mother or father, no foster parents or child protection, no school, food, medicine, no rights or protection, and none of what we've talked about today: human dignity. They're also our children, because there's one reason why we're more people on earth, and that's to help and set up for each other, don't hit each other in the heel. There are no more sides to this matter. The press is not the one that gives an incorrect image. There is no fake news about the situation in, for example: Moria camp. A child alone is not an unexplained asylum seeker. It's a child who needs help from Europe, and we're part of that Europe. I'm not indecent. I represent a party that will always fight for the most vulnerable children, regardless of nationality. This is an acute crisis. We have to solve it in cooperation with other countries, but we don't have time to wait any longer. Europe has gone straight ahead. For the sake of our propriety, even in these corona times, let's take that hand and contribute now. We were supposed to be on the track first, and now the government thinks we have to wait to see if Europe is serious. For every day that goes, these children are exposed to everything that a child should never experience, no matter where it comes from. It's irreproachable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6164	When the Granavolden platform was established, there was one point I was particularly pleased with when it came to immigration and refugee policy: ‘Norway shall be a driver for finding good solutions for the world’s refugees, both through assistance in the neighbourhoods and by accepting quota refugees.’ At the same time, the Government Platform stated that the right to asylum is a fundamental human right and must be respected. We need guiding principles and values to underpin our policies for those who are most vulnerable. Norway has taken responsibility, and Norway shall take responsibility for contributing and helping people in flight. There is agreement in this room, and the commitment that has been around the Moria case over the past few weeks also shows great support for it in the Norwegian population, and it's positive. Since the turn of the millennium, the number of migrants and refugees worldwide has increased considerably, and there are many reasons for this: war, population growth, poverty, climate change. Of course, what worries us all the most is the weakest in flight, with the dangers it entails at all levels. I perceive this matter so that there is no disagreement about Norway to assist Greece in a difficult situation, but about the way to do so. I had hoped that we could debate this without questioning each other's motives. What we've seen lately is a great commitment to one camp and one country. There is no doubt that the state of Moria camp, and especially for children and other vulnerable groups, is unsustainable. In my part of the country, there has been a great deal of commitment to the relief work on Lésvos, and I support it and have great respect for it. It is important that civil society also contributes and engages where we see nudity. We all have a responsibility there. The right has sought broad European cooperation that obligates. The Council of State also underlined that in its statement and briefed on how the solution has now been, and I am pleased about it. As a nation, we also have to have an overall focus that is beyond time. It's hard to set up weak groups against each other. Many hundreds of quota refugees are also waiting to enter our country, and I hope it can go quickly. Norway contributes by providing humanitarian aid, and Norway is working closely with Europe to contribute to more permanent mechanisms to alleviate the structural challenges in Greece. It's a drive job Norway needs to strengthen, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6182	No, it's not fake news that the conditions in Moria camp are cruel. It is not ‘fake news’ that many suffer there. The conditions in most refugee camps are cruel. The only special thing about the Moria camp is that most of the people who are there were safe in Turkey, but still chose to travel to Europe. What is ‘fake news’ is that it will help the situation to pick up asylum seekers with an unsolved and doubtful need for protection for Norway. What we know is that we've done it before, and the situation got worse. We know that it will contribute to more people being lured into a dangerous flight. Politics is about prioritizing. The parties to the majority in this Chamber shall each intervene in order to give priority to asylum-seekers with an unsolved and doubtful need for protection. We know that 70 pst. of the lone minors in Greece are from Pakistan and Afghanistan. All 90 pst. of which, boys are between 14 and 17 years of age. It's striking. It has nothing to do with morality or solidarity to give priority to picking up young boys from Pakistan and Afghanistan, at the expense of quota refugees that we know need the help. We also know that those who came to Norway as lone minor asylum seekers from 2014 to 2018 were 591. After the family reunification applications were dealt with, they reached 2,400. They came as lone minors, but still had a family who also came to Norway. We know that these were sent out on a dangerous journey in order to send money back to the family in their home country. We also know that for the same cost as it costs us to have 35 lone minor asylum seekers in Norway, we could have funded help for 8,300 Syrian war refugees in Jordan who had no choice but to become another safe place. It has nothing to do with morals to go into such solutions. There are some people who believe to have a monopoly on the right solution despite the fact that we have tried it before. We know that the situation is getting worse with these solutions, not better. In my post, that's what I pointed to as 'fake news'. This is the opposite of helping.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6195	It is the job of a few to get the Progress Party to understand that there is war and persecution and completely deadly conditions for many, many places, among others. in Afghanistan, but I had hoped that the government parties had seen that this is the main reason why people are fleeing. It's not like someone can sit here and say that most people have a questionable asylum basis when they're sitting in some of the refugee camps we're talking about right now. There's no reason to say that, because we don't know that. But what's absolutely certain is that we, who have arranged to evacuate some of the most vulnerable children and families, have been quite clear that we want it to be those who are most vulnerable, and those who have the greatest chance of staying, as the United Nations does when they take out quota refugees, and as they have said they can do it in Greece. I have to say I'm a little upset that the council says she has a feeling that someone means something else. It is wrong – just as the government said the UN was not present in Greece, just as there were no selection mechanisms in which Norway could influence, just as with the EU meeting, where it could be found that it was possible to evacuate, where the government chose not to be. The question is a little bit of what kind of role we're going to have now. If we're going to influence the pan-European solution that everyone says they want, and that SV has proposed in the Storting many times, and that the parties that now say they want have voted against contributing to, we should at least report and say that we want to help, as several countries have now done. If it doesn't happen, as the representative Haltbrecken said, maybe everyone does as Norway does and says, no, we wait until there are so many. Then there will be no solution. Norway must at least report a number that we are willing to accept and not wait for everyone else. Yes, it is true that civil society in Norway has been very committed to this, and they have also done so on the ground in the camps in Greece – not only in Moria, but in many of them. But what has happened now? Yeah, they can't be there anymore. It's dangerous because right-hand extremities are there threatening them and threatening the refugees. This is an extremely dangerous situation in which Norway should do something other than sit and wait for others to evacuate some of the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6206	The balance in a matter that this is demanding. It is quickly made or easy to place yourself as the good and stamp others as they cynically call. It definitely doesn't solve a fundamental problem, but what it does is to resolve a conflict. There's a lot of agreement that Norway should help, and we have a responsibility to help. The government says they're taking that responsibility, but the obvious good solution doesn't exist here. There are many refugee camps in the world and, unfortunately, more with much worse conditions than in Moria too – people who have not had resources to get to Europe. We obviously want to keep the most vulnerable, and we do that best by accepting quota refugees from the United Nations. Many of those in Moria are migrants without any right to delay, young Afghan boys and men. This is also the despair of human beings, of course, whom we want to help. The government has always wanted a broad European solution, and Norway undertook in 2015 to relocate 1,500 asylum seekers from Italy and Greece. This was, as we know, part of a larger European relocalization, and in retrospect it turned out that almost only Norway lived up to its promises. Hence, it is absolutely crucial that other European countries actually help relocate with us, now in this situation. The words we use, have great power, it said to read in the VG in the chairroom a few days ago. That's right. «If we talk about refugees, families and orphans, as the liberals always do, our instincts are sympathy and the desire to help. If we talk about migrants and young men, as FrP often does, then there are completely different instincts going on." And that's what happens. The words used affect what we think is right. Hand-picked refugees from Moria may appear to be heartwarming, but it does not solve the fundamental problem for the too many children and adults who live their lives in refugee camps. We need common European relocation solutions that provide protection for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6222	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6227	Words are important, but action is even more important. I have to say that this debate is a bit marked by the fact that some people are putting forward strawmen to whom they are arguing – as if there are some people who have said that they are willing to accept quota refugees, as if we, who have fought for this, do not want to help people who are in a difficult situation elsewhere. On the contrary – we have proposals on that too. We have proposals on the broad European solutions that the majority here calls for. But if it is that there is a broad consensus in this room that we are actually going to pick up some of the most vulnerable with the greatest protection needs, then we are going to do it, and not sit and wait for others to do it first, and have a kind of census and a kind of pickle-kick between the countries of Europe, instead of taking it responsibility and helping to ensure that there are such solutions, and that there are more. We do best to say that from now on, register a number of asylum seekers and join that effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6242	I take the floor because the representative Karin Andersen, in his second post, produced it as if it were not doubtful that everyone had an asylum basis. I would like to refer to a report recently published by the United Nations Development Programme. The survey showed which groups travelled to Europe as boat migrants, and the survey has a large starting point, at about a quarter of the total. 2 000 interviews with migrants from 39 African countries. The investigation is based on a selection that said they traveled for economic reasons, and it found that a total of 64 pst. of the total selection said they had different reasons for travel than war and persecution. Furthermore, the overview shows that neither was unemployment nor poverty the main cause of their migration. 58 pst. the selection had both a job and a competitive salary or went to school. The most important motivation for migration was the desire to spend money that could be sent to family members in Africa. So it's no wonder that Greece, Cyprus and Malta face great challenges when there are many boat migrants who don't need protection. The best thing is to help UN quota refugees before they cross the Mediterranean, and the motivation for putting on risky escapes needs to be reduced as much as possible. If everything goes according to plan this year, we will accept approx. 3 000 UN refugees. 200 of them have already been evacuated from Libya to Romania, and 600 have been evacuated to refugee camps in Rwanda from Libya. This will help us reduce the disaster over the Mediterranean for boat migrants. I have more faith in working with the UN with boat refugees and UN quota refugees than in motivating more people to embark on dangerous boat routes, too many migrants who actually do not seem to need protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6249	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 25-digit number
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-26.ana.ud289e6256	With this, today's map has also been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
