ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e44	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative of Terje Aasland for the period from 15 October and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Christian Thinning Bjørnø, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e64	Christian Thinning Bjørnø is present and will take the seat. The representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e71	I would like to make a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Siv Mossleth, Marit Arnstad, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Sandra Borch, Liv Signe Navarsete, Nils T. Bjørke and myself on a better boat and ferry policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e76	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e81	I want to promote a proposal on local democracy, not commercial premise, and another on kindergartens for the children, not property speculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e86	The representative, Mr Wiborg, will put forward three motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e91	It is a pleasure to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Gisle Meininger Saudland and myself to facilitate that more people try to work despite health challenges, another proposal for a representative on behalf of Gisle Meininger Saudland, Jon Engen-Helgheim and myself that religious or ideological reservations against work should provide a reduction or halt of benefits, and last but not least a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Morten Stordalen, Tor André Johnsen, Per-Willy Amundsen, Silje Hemdal and myself to stop the closure of business-related traffic stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e96	The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e102	On behalf of the representatives of Rigmor Aasrud, Lise Christoffersen, Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen and myself, I am delighted to propose the inclusion of the ILO core conventions in the Human Rights Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e107	The representative of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e112	I am pleased to make a proposal for a representative on behalf of myself on a simpler everyday life for the visually impaired.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e117	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e122	On behalf of the big business representatives Une Bastholm, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I would like to propose a plan for the evacuation of many more asylum seekers by Norway from Greece in 2021 and that the increase in evacuated asylum seekers within Europe should not lead to Norway accepting fewer quota refugees from the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e127	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e159	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e166	The size of the population is currently addressing important issues related to personnel in international operations for Norway and issues related to securing legal compensation for Norwegian veterans with mental illness. This post is held by the undersigned of the representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde's absence. He has been the case rapporteur both for the vet report We, too, when it is required – Veterans in our time, and for the representative proposal in Document 8:101 S for 2019–2020, from Bjørn Moxnes. Let me thank both him and the rest of the Committee for their good cooperation with both the communication and the proposal for a representative. Since 1947, more than 100,000 women and men have participated in international operations for Norway, in four parts of the world, in more than 40 countries and in over 40 different operations. The Veteran population consists of approx. 39,000 people who have been in international operations since 1978. We have a lot to thank our veterans for. That is why there is also a broad political consensus that a comprehensive national veterinary policy is desirable. There have been large-scale notifications, action plans and follow-up plans in this area over the past 12 years, and various governments have worked specifically to improve the care of veterans. The message describes that recognition in the veteran community and understanding of their efforts and needs have increased. Increased recognition has been one of the main objectives of the veterinary policy throughout the ten-year period. It is an overall committee that is behind the recommendation. There are three proposals from two different minorities, which I guess will be explained in articles from the parties behind them. With regard to the Red Party's proposal, there is a somewhat rare majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV, which have come together in parts of the proposal, while a Joint Committee supports other parts of it. Points I, II and V of the Recommendation are promoted by an overall committee. Points III and IV of the Recommendation are promoted by the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV. The Committee points out that the damage done by veterans is of different characteristics, both physical and psychological. Many damage is only discovered several years after work. In the period 2010–2019, 817 veterans applied for compensation. 339 of them were granted it, and it was paid approx. One and a half billion. kr for them. Now we see that there has been a marked decrease in payments, which is explained by that between 70 and 80 pst. rejected by the applicants because many of the cases have been raised on a weaker evidence basis than before. It is worth noting that the joint opinion of the veterinary and official organisations supports this proposal, which is also achieved here in the Chamber today. And that's important, when we see the video from SIOPS, which points out that today it can take up to nine years for a veteran to get his case processed in the State pension fund and Nav. Such a time-use does not, in fact, suit itself, President. It is also worth noting that it is now established that specialist declarations by highly qualified professionals are not to be set aside by the State pension fund or the complaint body of the compensation scheme, without the declaration being sent back first to the specialist concerned for a comment or additional statement. It's a good day for Norwegian veterans today, for everything they are and everything they have – if I can allow myself a little rewriting of the defense slogan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e191	I guess we all follow up on the American election, and there might be a little bit of different perceptions about what's going to happen there. But I think we can all join a quote from one of the presidential candidates, Joe Biden. He says the following: As a nation, we have many obligations, but really only one sacred obligation, namely to take care of our veterans and their families both before, during and after foreign missions. The red-green government issued a vet report in 2009 and established a specific compensation scheme for veterans from international operations. For the veterans, this was a milestone, and it was also a very necessary lift. Much has improved since 2009, but we have to admit that there is also a lot left. Unfortunately, the government's proposal for a vet report is short here – a lot remains. Unfortunately, this notification is vague, has general and non-obligatory wording on the way forward for the veterinary work. It is also consistently retrospective. It is noteworthy that the 92-page document contains only three pages of the way forward and the veto policy of the future. From the Workers' Party, we can join in the emphasising of the three broad thematic areas of further work. It's care of children and families further development of competence and interaction in civil auxiliaries; organisation of research on the living conditions of veterans; In addition to these three areas, policy measures are still needed to strengthen the legal certainty of veterans in line with the system, hereinafter called intra-top replacement. But what is the responsibility of the politicians is to solve our system problem of veteran policy: that, unfortunately, the policy of the vet is at risk of falling between chairs, and that responsibility and action are spread across a wide range of departments and public bodies. Therefore, in order to succeed in coordinating commitments and in obtaining a specific veto policy, efforts need to be stepped up at government level. In this respect, it is not sufficient that the 2009 Storing Communication, the 2011 Action Plan and the 2014 Follow-up Plan are now replaced by a general outline of the road further without concrete and measurable follow-up actions. However, in one area, the report is relatively concrete, and there are two proposals for new family-related measures. Here I am afraid – and I am going to ask the Council of State for later – that if the measures are perhaps well-intentioned, they may have some negative consequences. The use of compensation for sick-child days when a parent is on a foreign assignment is a sensible measure. But to say that those who are not out there are not going to take paper or parental leave, and that those who live in Norway are going to take these weeks has potentially very negative consequences for equality work in defence. I think it might be particularly important for those who are out on a lot of foreign assignments, that their papers – because that's what it's about – are protected. Here, in my opinion, the Minister of Defence must engage in dialogue with the Defence and Employees' Organisations and veteran organisations in order to ensure both equal parenthood and financial stability for the family of the soldiers. It is said that responsible politicians need to be careful about setting up specific schemes for individual groups in society. But when you've served in a potentially dangerous mission, decided by the Norwegian government, with the Norwegian flag on your right shoulder, then you're actually in a special position, and it obliges the big community, it commits the Storting. I am pleased that the bulk of the population today is getting the necessary improvement in the replacement arrangements for veterans who experience psychological sensitivities after serving in international operations. Although much has improved since 2009, our commitment to the veterans and their families means that we cannot put a stop to the policy of veterans. There's a lot left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e225	Would the representative Mr Huitfeldt like to make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e230	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e235	The representative, Anniken Huitfeldt, then addressed the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e240	The new vet report, also when it is required – veterans in our time, is the first in ten years and thus an important step in the gradual, systematic effort to improve the situation and rights of veterans. The purpose of the Communication is to sum up the government’s efforts for personnel in international operations for Norway since the previous notification and to point the way forward. The Communication follows up the ambitions of the 2009 Storing Communication, the 2011 Action Plan and the 2014 Follow-up Plan. Policies are to be pursued at both national, regional and municipal level. Seven ministries have followed up the government's veterinary policy over a decade. The last great news of veterans came ten years ago. In 2011, the action plan ‘In service for Norway’ came with 126 actions, and in 2014 a follow-up plan with 27 actions was launched. These measures are continued and cover all those who have served abroad on behalf of the Norwegian State, including those in the justice and foreign service sectors. The government has proposed and implemented a number of measures that will improve the situation of veterans individually and in total. This includes compensation for unpaid parental leave for home parents, compensation for home days with sick children not taken out of international operations, the provision of child, youth and family paroles in advance of departure and the provision of specialist health services in all the professional networks that train health professionals on veterans, and the introduction of intra-group compensation for special compensation schemes, the establishment of a permanent complaint and the transfer of the Secretariat of Complaints from the Ministry of Defence to the State Civil Service. The list may be supplemented by several measures, but time does not allow it. Then turn to the motion for a resolution (Doc. 8). In 2019, an external working group set up by the Ministry of Defence carried out a review of the compensation and compensation scheme for personnel involved in international operations. Several of the measures recommended by the working group have been included, as has already been explained in the previous article. The working group also discussed other possible measures. These were not included in the vet report, as the working group was divided into their views. However, the right chooses to support several of the proposals as these are important proposals to ensure the rights of veterans after the end of their service. This relates specifically to the proposal that veterans who claim compensation for psychological damage caused by foreign operations are not subject to limitation until at least three years after the decision on disability benefit and occupational injury caused by psychological injury. Furthermore, it concerns the proposal to ensure that the external 20-year limitation period for limitation is not used to refuse compensation to veterans who otherwise fulfil the conditions for compensation. In addition, it concerns the proposal to ensure that the specialist declaration of permanent psychological damage is not set aside by the State pension fund or by the appeal body of the compensation scheme, without first returning the declaration to the relevant specialist for comment or supplementary declaration. In sum, the veterinary notification, with its additional decisions, represents an important step forward in the terms and rights of the veterans, and a strong recognition of the mission and importance of the mission they carry out on behalf of the nation of Norway, often under particularly demanding conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e257	For many people, this is a day that can give a fresh impetus to a tough existence. Veterans I've met have described weekdays that are not characterized by optimism, but by despair over health problems that are not taken seriously, and the feeling of meeting the wall with many different public authorities. For the Central Party, it has been important to pursue a policy that takes care of veterans in a good and dignified way. They have set up for Norway and must not meet a state apparatus where responsibility and action are spread between many instances and where they must be available. The vet report states that the payment of compensation to veterans has been reduced by three-quarters in recent years. There is cause for concern, not least after meeting with individuals who, because of delays, have come into a very difficult life situation. There is reason to suspect that the strict practice of the law that provides 70-80 pst. for the applicants, for financial reasons. It is not Norway worthy. The nation has to set up for those who have set up for our nation. Report. St. 15 for 2019–2020 provides a clear summary of the veteran policy over the last ten years. It is less with concrete proposals in relation to the way forward. However, one of the few proposals has a lot of weight of resistance, and it is difficult to understand that the government will compensate for the unsolicited parental death of a resident parent, where personnel in international operations are not able to take out their share of parental leave because of the service. This proposal will be able to dismantle much of the work done to ensure that both parents are entitled to have relations with their children. It is especially important in a family situation where the one parent is very away. Of course, it should be with equal parental leave and financial stability for family members of defence personnel on foreign missions being ensured. With a vet report with few and little concrete proposals for future policy for our veterans, there is reason to commend the Red Party for their Document 8, with five specific points. If three of them are agreed, the government should tell them that they have not done their job. However, the pleasure is that all the proposals contained in this Amendment No 8 will have a majority today. The softening of the legislation on the limitation of cases, the possibility of reintroducing cases under certain conditions and the financing of legal assistance, which are today important decisions for those in debt, and not least that trust in specialist evidence of mental stress damage is strengthened. The wide-ranging set of specialist phrases is the devaluation of highly advanced and competent professionals. For the future, the legislation is changed, and should the State pension fund choose to ignore the question submitted, it must return to a new opinion, or there will be a new medical assessment. The veterans haven't been well enough taken care of. The red-green government took hold of this, and it was a breakthrough for the veterans when they got their own replacement scheme in 2009. A lot has also happened in the future. But there has been little progress during today's government, and with the message we have received on the table, we see that there is little willingness to address concrete proposals to improve the situation of the veterans. Now we've got a defense chief who's himself served in foreign operations, so it's okay to hope that the veterans will be set up and heard to a greater extent than they've been in the last seven years. That's what they eat. They make, many sacrifice a lot, and many have a lifelong sacrifice because of delays to which they also need help. What we adopt today is one step on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e276	There is certainly no case where it is more appropriate and more necessary for the Storting to come together across political dividing lines than this – the follow-up of our veterans. Where the parties can separate layers in the view of what we are going to use the Defence for, and concrete foreign missions, we do not separate layers in the recognition of the efforts of Norwegian personnel serving abroad have done for Norway, and the responsibility we elected for them. That recognition is important and necessary. It's also necessary because many veterans have sacrificed a lot. For some it has become so that the victim really became clear only later. For some, it has been hard struggles to stand long after the end of service. Over the last few years, we have received many concerns about weaknesses in today's legislation, and when the vet report was launched, we unfortunately – and the veterans' organisations reacted to – little willingness of the government to rectify this. On the contrary, we had an attempt to weaken the right of veterans to proper legal assistance. For this reason, it is a great pleasure that now, on the one hand unanimously, and by a clear majority, the Stortinget warns of support for strengthening the rights of the veterans in terms of the possibility of seeking compensation, seeking legal assistance, preventing parenting, and on the other hand strengthening the possibilities of getting the help that many people need. It's been too long for the veterans and their organizations, and it's been with them. The case of legal redress is important in itself, but it also represents an important reminder that the fight for a dignified treatment of veterans is not over. One of the things that has worried me about the message is the gap between the reality described in the message and the one that the veteran organizations themselves describe. There are too many stories about lack of follow-up, about health resources not finding each other, lack of understanding and knowledge in dealing with the public and lack of transparency about mental health in defence. That reality has to be clearly on the ground when we discuss this, and when we work on it. During the hearing, one of the veteran organisations reminded us of something important, namely that when the government chose to call the new vet report ‘And when it is required’, part of the question is also what is required of those who run the country. This is precisely why there is reason to be critical that the communication contained so little concrete policy and commitment. There are few bets and little about follow-up at political level. As a result, the report appeared a little bit as a dot in Norwegian scientific policy rather than a marshall. What we need is a marshall for further action. Therefore, SV, together with the Workers' Party, promotes a proposal that the government should return to the Storting with clear plans and concrete actions in the areas identified as initiatives in the Communication. It concerns the care of children and families, the competence and interaction of health services and the stepping up of research. In addition, we bring with us a message from several of the hearing bodies, which have pointed to a great need to work with transparency around mental health in the defense. We also promote proposals to start working on a strategy for Norwegian scientific research because we know too little and there is a alarming need for more knowledge about many health challenges, but also about the position of veterans in the wider community. Then, together with the Central Party and the Labour Party, we also have a third proposal. It is one of the few concrete proposals in the Communication, namely to compensate for unpaid parental leave for unpaid parents. That proposal is not well-founded, nor is it anchored in defence or among employee organisations. That is why we ask the government to engage in dialogue with the parties in order to find better solutions, so that we guarantee defence personnel the right to be with their own children. I am pleased with the proposals that are being adopted today, but this is not a point, it must be a clear message of further action.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e297	I grew up in a home with a father who was in the first German brigade after the war, in a home where everything was divided into two – all stories began with whether it was before or after Dad was in Germany. We have a very bad rating of how we've treated our veterans. When the first group we sent to Lebanon, the country of Fornebu, took the Customs School exam on that group. They stopped them at customs and took every small part of the luggage and split up into small pieces and checked for possible smuggling. It was Norway's reception of the first group we had in Lebanon. They then got half a day off to return their equipment, and it was expected that they would be back to work. We've treated veterans badly, and when the staging message came 11 years ago, it almost led to a riot. Several books were written by many of the veterans both about how they experienced the treatment from the Defense and how they experienced it in 2009. It led to that in 2010 I had an interpellation here which is perhaps one of the strongest interpellations I have been able to have, where Gjermund Hagesetter decided to tell his history from Lebanon, which I think was an incredibly strong experience for all of us, and which led to us placing a plaque in our stairwell that also tells of all those who have lost their lives in peacekeeping operations. So it's good that we're keeping our heads up, it's good that that debate is there, and it's good that it's as cross-political as it is, because there's some of it's our duty to really honor, it's those who've been willing to sacrifice so much for decisions made in this room. I believe that a number of important steps are being taken here in this message, both with a special compensation scheme, the creation of a permanent complaint subject, and the removal of responsibility for the secretariat and the professionalisation of it. One of the major challenges these people face – if you think that our primary health service should be protected in order to respond to them – is that if you set a little place in Norway, your competence to receive people with strong war experiences is not always the same. We have few in Norway who carry that kind of experience. We also saw it after July 22nd – when some of our young people actually also had experiences that almost look like war experiences – that our primary health system was not designed for and was not competent to receive people who are going to process that kind of experiences. So it's important to make sure that we have a defense that takes care of people, and the support of comrades is also very important to be able to build up skills in order to process the experiences you're sitting with. I grew up in a home where everything happened before or after my father was in Germany. There were both negative experiences and positive experiences. That's what you carried with you from everything you had seen and experienced, but also experiences that made you stronger and able to carry on with pride the job you had done. That balance should be clear to everyone when they have done such an important job for Norway. In the interpellation I had ten years ago, I ended up quoting a poem that one of the veterans wrote in one of the books that came out after the big news in 2009. It was as follows: "Norway and the United Nations thank you," they said, "and left us, we had become them, the civil ones, the others. But they didn't take away our red dreams, our loneliness or the length, less. They didn't take away that we were ahead in our own country."
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e316	The directive "Also we when it is required" is the title of the Report. St. 15 for 2019-2020, and it puts more than me in serious mode. Since 1947, over 100,000 Norwegian men and women have participated in international operations for Norway. About 39 000 have been part of international operations only since 1978. Let's always take off our hat and talk nice about the veterans, but the matter is about something far more serious than proper mention on solemn occasions. Action must follow word. The veterans have sacrificed a lot, they have experienced a lot, and too many of our veterans are struggling with physical and mental damage and stress for an effort they have made on behalf of us in the Norwegian community. We are therefore grateful to these personnel and their families and relatives. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is now a broad consensus that the nation should care for these people and their families, including decent compensation and relevant medical follow-up. Experience from the veterans has led to learning and building skills. Their health challenges have revealed conditions that primary health care and specialist health services need to share and learn more about. The damage and symptoms caused by military operations often follow a completely different pattern from those of our competent health professionals. Symptoms, aftereffects and delayed injuries can occur many years after the events and develop over time. It is then important that the competences and measures are available in all parts of the healthcare system. The Veterans' own organisations have done an important job in both awareness raising and schooling in just this. As a nation, we're going on, but we have a piece left to go. We are therefore pleased that the vet notifications to Stortinget come and thus signify and further develop the experience and follow-up that takes over after the previous notification. In line with SIOPS’s input, concrete and realistic measures to enhance the competence of civil health services must be initiated. The veterinary service in defence has played a central role in developing and following up measures for veterans internally. The establishment of e.g.: Veterinary inspector is important in order to make the veterinary work visible both internally in defence and in society. Our veterans deserve respect and responsibility for the knowledge they possess and can contribute to human competence in working life and society, but those who have to struggle with one should also have the same respect and recognition as a result of the service. I welcome the fact that, as a large community, we are getting better and wiser in this field every time there is a vet's report for treatment. The Christian People's Party wants and trusts that the government is following this in a good way. We must remember it as a nation, our collective history in which individuals and their relatives have given of their best in the service of peace. Most of us have made it easy to think that war and war acts belong to history. In the period 2010–2019, as many as 817 veterans applied for compensation. This big message has been considered in parallel with a Red’s proposal to ensure legal redress. The issues raised by this proposal were already under way, but the representative of Moxnes must be credited with the fact that the proposal may have encouraged processes. The Christian People's Party is pleased that at this parallel treatment we have important decisions and important clarifications that the veteran organizations have just been waiting for and informed us about. The Christian People's Party is pleased that it is cleared in the rules of limitation. Psychiatric reactions may occur after several years, which must be taken into account by all types of deadlines and constraints. This also applies to the external twenty-year period, in which the Storting currently provides clear assurances that it should not be used to refuse compensation to veterans who otherwise fulfil the conditions. The same applies to the right to second opinion and to a new opinion if a claim for compensation is considered by the State pension fund or the complaint body of the scheme. The decent treatment of our veterans is and becomes an important matter for my party. With this I recommend with joy the proposals of the Christian People's Party are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e339	Today is a joyous day for the damage done by the veterans. Øystein Wemberg, Secretary-General of SIOPS, said that a week ago it became clear that a great majority of people are in favour of all the Rødt's proposals to ensure the right to compensation and upliftment for the men and women who have gone into war and conflict on behalf of Norway. It's important, and it's about justice. Imagine being sent out to war in a foreign country on behalf of the state. You come home, try to get used to civil life, and only several years later will the pain come – not physical, but psychological. It's the experiences of the war that overtake you, it's the fear of death, having seen a fellow soldier killed, a doubt as to whether civilians might have been injured in an attack in which you yourself participated. First, concentration ability starts to fail. You don't master the job anymore. So the family and the community, and maybe you start drinking to forget. Think, then, that you go to health care and get a specialist statement that says that the psychological damage that has now caused you to lose your job is due to the stresses of the war. You are applying for a replacement, but you are not believed. The case handlers end your privacy in search of reasons to refuse the application, and finally they find a pass, that it is the drink or the problems of your life that cause your suffering, not what you experienced in the war. They're turning your case on your head. If you then have some forces left, you take one last round in the complaint topic. In all probability, you're going to be part of the 80 pst. veterans suffering from psychological damage who are rejected. This is not a fictional story, but it is the reality of many Norwegian veterans from foreign operations, as it has been told to me and to many others from other parties. Since 1945, more than 100,000 Nordics have participated in international operations. Many of them have come home with serious mental damage for which they are now denied compensation. For some, it may have been surprising to discover that Red is for the veterans, because we have been against the wars, but it should not surprise. Although Red is against risking the lives and health of Norwegian soldiers in the dubious wars of the United States and NATO abroad, at the same time we are crystal clear that when politicians send Norwegian women and men into war, we have a responsibility to take care of those who come back harmed. It is the responsibility that has failed. Over several years, we have seen a decrease in the number of applications for compensation granted. Those who do so best, the veterans themselves, report that it is the result of a restriction which has not been justified or officially adopted. When the Stortinget today adopts Redt's proposal to ensure damaged Norwegian veterans the compensation and follow-up they are entitled to, the Stortinget gives a clear signal to the Ministry of Defence: no distinction shall be made between those who left long ago, for example. to Lebanon, and those who left recently, be it to Afghanistan or to Mali. The storm looks and takes seriously the damage that can occur long after the end of service and that has ruined many people's lives. We say that the peer reviews from psychiatry should form the basis of the evaluation of the application for compensation, and they should not be negligent. And when people are in a vulnerable situation and seek compensation from a powerful state, they shall have access to sufficient legal help. For those who have had their case rejected in recent years, and where there is a suspicion that the applicable law has been broken, it is now possible to reopen the case. I am therefore pleased that the other parties support the Red's proposals. I am also very happy and grateful that the veterans have never given up, that they have stood together, that they have stood up, that they have demanded their right together with the unions in the defense and have said that these people who have risked everything and come home damaged, we must take care of them. That's what the Storting is about, and I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e356	Let me thank the committee for a thorough consideration of the great news about our veterans. I am pleased that it has received a joint agreement, with some comments and suggestions that I will comment on afterwards. It's been ten years since the last time a government made a big deal about Norwegian veterans. Over these ten years, different governments have had the matter of veto high on the agenda, with a cross-political collapse in their backs. Today, society takes greater responsibility for the people we send out in international operations. This is the main reason why we have come so much further in preparing, recognising and caring for the veterans. However, I agree with the committee that we are not in the target. The government points to three areas where efforts need to be concentrated. Veterinary families need to get a better life, we need to increase the competence and treatment of mental injuries in civil auxiliaries, and we need to contribute to more knowledge and research on the matter of vets. The government is concerned that families are well equipped to withstand the stresses of the service in international operations. We want everyone to have a couple conversation in the family protection service before leaving. We want to spread the expertise from the family protection office in Hamar better to all the country's family protection offices. We want to give an economic compensation to those who are at home with sick children, when those who are out in international operations do not get their quota of sick-child days. And we'll give compensation for unpaid leave and loss of pension credits to the person who's at home, where the one who's out of town does not get his parental allowance in connection with the rest of the parental leave. Let me stress that this is a voluntary offer. Once you have come home, you will also have worked out a considerable amount of day off and can be taken out in association with children. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left have pointed to the need for a new action plan. We are already in the process of concreteising the communication in clear objectives and actions. This will be a political document underpinning the continued cross-sectoral cooperation of the government for the supervision of personnel before, during and after international operations. In the context of this communication, seven departments have worked on it. So the work done is cross-sectoral. The government also wants to focus more systematically on research. I will ensure that this work starts immediately and in close cooperation with the other departments, the veterinary organizations and research institutions in the military and civil sectors. It is important that veterans who are injured get the compensation they are entitled to. The arrangements we have can always be better. The reason why we set up a working group in 2018 was the discussion about the compensation schemes. Do they hit? Is the practice the way we've meant it to be? What's in all the stories about those who don't get compensation? The working group was asked to make concrete suggestions for improvement. The representative of the Red Group is based mainly on the report of the working party. The Government has included in the Communication proposals for a complaint mechanism in cases of compensation for mental damage occurred after 2010. We have also made proposals to move the Secretariat of Complaints to the State Civil Service, and to introduce the term intraps. We were not allowed to treat everyone until we submitted the message. But I'm very pleased with how the Storting follows up the veteran's case. The Government supports the Committee's setting up as regards limitation periods. We'll follow this up quickly in a proposition that's being promoted this fall. The government also supports a rule for dealing with specialist declarations. I record that there is a majority in favour of reopening cases where decisions may be contrary to the law in force. We're going to look into what's in the formulation and put in place a system that can put that proposal into practice. Then I have to express some surprise that public payroll rates, which are usually used in the criminal justice court court, which are used in connection with patient injuries and other claims for damages, cannot be the right paycheck for exactly this type of compensation case. A discussion about the public payroll is right, I can be on board. But that there should be special needs associated with this, I can't actually see. I believe that public payroll rates will continue to ensure the legal certainty of the veterans as well. All in all, the most important thing is that we've promoted a vet report that tells us that the veterans' organisations have done an important job, which tells us about a cross-politically good scientific work over a ten-year period, which points further to the work of the veterans, and which is quite clear that the work of the veterans and the veterans' policy is not finished with this milestone. That's something we have to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e384	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e389	I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for taking account of the great majority. But then I'm also a little surprised at one point. I've asked the Minister of Defense before about parental leave. At the time, the Minister of Defense stood in the same place and said that I had misunderstood, that this was about sick children, and that the person who was at home with the children should be compensated when the person who was involved in the foreign operation could not be at home with a sick child. I have been a Minister of Gender Equality and have been working on parental leave for many years, but I did not understand what the Minister of Defence meant now. This is primarily about those who are often involved in foreign operations, for example: Special Soldiers. For them, it's often hard to get papers out. Many of them have small children, because many of the best soldiers are often at the age of young children. Should the defense then compensate so that they cannot take out their paperwork? You might say that it's voluntary, but when we know about the labour pressure that's among these soldiers, I think they need to get a clear answer: Should the Ministry of Defense introduce a new system and say that if you don't want it, you don't have to take out your paper commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e396	These are two different things. One is about sick days for children. I think we obviously agree on that, so that's okay. The second concerns parental leave. If a foreign operation comes at a time that is within the time of the parental leave for mother or father, we believe it may be appropriate for the home person to be allowed to continue the parental leave. Then whoever's out there can either take over the parental leave when you get home, if it's within the period, or continue the parental leave afterwards. What's the point here, and this is a desire that has come from the veteran organizations, so that this is unknown, is not right: when you're out, you want our soldiers to have their heads and focus on what's going on out there. Then we will remove the load that it may be with sick days if the child is ill, or that you cannot take out those weeks. So we're making a voluntary arrangement that parents themselves can assess whether they want to use, but we'll give the one that's at home, the opportunity to continue parental leave even if the weeks they're entitled to are not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e403	Now I almost have to ask the Minister of Defense more specifically: Has he received this as a claim from some of the trustees in the Defense? He said he got it from the veteran organisations. What veterinary organisations have made concrete representations that they should be able to be bought out of the parental leave scheme? I'm very surprised, especially about the Left and Christian People's Party, which is not in this decision, because this has been a big discussion in this Chamber. This is about those who are special soldiers having the same right to be with their children after they have had children. This is going to lead to a pressure on all these special soldiers that they won't take out their right to be a father, like everyone else. I have to ask again: which organisations have made a concrete contribution to this? I have been in contact with the trustees in the organisations, and at least it does not come from them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e410	There have been recordings from the Veteran organisations if we could look at this scheme. This is about soldiers who are out — not just special soldiers — in international operations, and then there may be a coincidence in time with the period of parental leave. We need to find a system that allows those who are at home to take over the weeks of the one who is out. Then we compensate for salary and pension points, so that the child can be at home related to one of his parents, and that the outsider should not have this as a concern. I am aware of the discussion about equality and the discussion about fathers then goes wrong about their right to be with the child, but we say, first of all, that there should be a voluntary scheme; second, we know that this will be a scheme that will apply very few, and thirdly, we say that we should compensate for the inequalities that will arise in terms of leave and retirement for those who are at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e417	It's true that this is about very few, but the question is how voluntary it is, when we see what pressure it is on these soldiers who are regularly out on foreign missions. I don't get any answers as to whether there are any trust-elects, those who organize today's soldiers who are out there, who have made representations on this. That's what's important. That is why we propose to engage in dialogue with the elected representatives of the Defence Force on this. This doesn't come as a recording from them. I would also like to see the written recording that should have come from the veteran organisations about this. The last time I asked the Minister of Defense a question about this, on June 9, 2020, I asked this very question, and then I was told that I had misunderstood, and that this was about sick days. But then we agree, you can get sick days if you have a parent out there, but that's the maternity leave, that's the mom and dad leave, this is really about. I find it worrying that the Minister of Defense has taken this position, but it is even more worrying that the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have been strong defenders of the paper industry, are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e426	This has come as a recording from the Veteran organisations. The representative, Huitfeldt, would like to think that the veteran organizations should not care about the practices of today's soldiers. I'm very happy that they too are making recordings of what is today's practice. This will apply to very few. I am aware that there is a discussion – we also have in my party – if we now make it harder for the soldiers to take their parental leave. But we have said that it is a voluntary scheme, and that it is a scheme that will compensate for the child, on the one hand, but also for the purpose of the one that is involved in an international and difficult operation, which should not worry about how to deal with the parental leave at home. Yes, there's a discussion about this, which we are willing to take, but the recording came, as I said, from the veteran organizations. I believe that they are in their full right to come. We have weighed for and against whether it puts undue pressure on, for example. fathers to withdraw parental leave. We don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e435	I don't know if I was so much wiser from the Minister of Defense's answer, but at least we know where the proposal came from, and I agree with that – they have to suggest. But it would be a good idea to anchor it in the trusted organisations before making such a proposal. That's where I think it's failed. I don't think we're going to get any further on that. But I hear what the council says from the pulpit, that one works together in seven departments that provide services to the veterans. Some of what we're told is how difficult it is to reach, how many doors you have to knock on, how one is sent from one case handling to the other in different departments and different directorates and offices. How will the Council of State coordinate the services of the veterans better? When there are seven departments, it goes without saying that there is a need for coordination at government level. How will the Council of State do that, so that the veterans can at least get fewer doors to knock on before you can get help?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e443	Here we get criticism that we're too backward, but what's why we're backward is that one of the important conclusions of the first vet report was that it's expected that the defense will take all responsibility, while there's basically a lot in the civil sectors that's on the veterans. It's done a lot. The Veteran service is a bit of that part. We've got a family protection office in Hamar. We also have some pointed environments within Nav that take this. But the important thing is to get a recognition that the civil sector is also responsible for the veterans. It's because we've used seven departments and my statement there. I feel that the civil sector includes that. Then we do something: we establish a veteran contact in the health care system in the various health care companies, so we need to be sure that the competence we place in the health care of the defense, among other things. and in veterinary organisations, shall be communicated to health establishments. And then it also becomes part of the research we're going to do in the future, where we're going to figure out what this is about. When we did the Afghanistan Study 1 and 2, when we did the UNIFIL study, we got a lot of these questions. We need to find answers to them through research.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e454	As far as parental leave is concerned, I would really just encourage the government parties to use the little time left before voting, to review our proposal once more, because it would be natural and could not be a problem either that the government engages in dialogue with the elected representatives and does this in a proper way when we talk about the rights of the soldiers. So now don't let it go prestige in it. But I had another question: what is happening today is that the Stortinge adopts several things – partly unanimously, partly by a clear majority – that lay on the table when the Minister of Defence promoted the vet report, things that originally came as a proposal from a working group, but that were promoted to Stortinget via a representative proposal from Red, instead of being promoted by the Minister of Defence himself. When he sees it today, does the broad uprising around this, he takes self-criticism that he had to be instructed by the Storting to carry out these things?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e461	First with parental leave. That's not how we're going to come up with an order disconnected from the trusted ones, or not communicate with anyone about it in the defense. It's obvious that we're going to do that when we're going to find a solution. With regard to the points from the committee that looked at the compensation scheme, we were also open to the veterinary organisations when we submitted the message, that we had not reached the point of view of everything. Here was some legal work we had to look at. We were to come back to that beyond the fall. That this treatment comes here, I don't see as a big problem. Because of the Korona, it has been a very long time since the message was delivered, in April, and now we write October. So I don't see it as being corrected by the Stortinget. This is part of the process we've been through. We warned when we reported that these points were to be looked at in more detail and come back to the later ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e468	Several times the government has determined that the payment was ‘higher than expected’ during the first years after the introduction of the current scheme and until 2017-2018. Then suddenly there was a fall in the proportion of applications granted and falls in payments of over 70 pst. SIOPS, which are among those who know the reality of damaged veterans best, believes it has been a clear tightening in recent years. Then we also have the report from the working group, which says that today's practice is at the limit of illegality. It is necessary to ask whether the Council of State can guarantee that no signals – formal or informal – have gone from the government that has been perceived by the SPK and the complaint subject that wants to tighten up practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e475	Firstly, the times I have pointed out that the payments have been significantly higher than expected when the compensation scheme came, I have used it to give an example of how important it was that we put in place the compensation scheme – not with economic reasons. I just said that this is a sign that the compensation scheme we got in place on behalf of the veterans was a correct and important act. No, there have been no political signals to the State pension fund that they are going to tighten up for now this is starting to be expensive. But here were many examples that we might not have a practice that was up to the standard we should have. That is why I set up the working group that has looked at the compensation scheme. That's why we took that from the work we did in the vet report, and that's why we were very clear to the vet organizations that there are still things we need to look at, and then we're going to come back to it in the autumn. I am very pleased with the treatment we have received in Stortinget. There is a cross-political agreement that the work on the vet is an important work and that it should continue. So I disagree on one point, and then I say we have to look at the wording on the other point.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e484	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e491	There is no doubt that the follow-up of veterans has had a solid rise in the last 25 years. In particular, the 20-year operation in Lebanon gave a time shift through a change of attitude towards the follow-up of veterans. At the same time, veterans came home from war armies in Somalia and from the uplifting and brutal civil war in the Balkans. In the middle of this, Norwegian soldiers contributed in a very good way. The soldiers acted in a lukewarm, balanced and diplomatic way that gave respect to the area of operation and pride here at home. It was our best women and men who traveled out on behalf of Norway. Most came home with a good ballast and new experience. Participating in sharp missions in war zones brings good experiences and experiences, which may be difficult to understand for those who have not experienced it. Interaction, companionship and getting close and learning a lot about new cultures are enriching. But someone never came all the way home. They never land. They struggle with the experiences of uncertainty, threats, perceptions, smells and sounds of the Nordics most do not experience. There's someone who's at the center of the two things we have today. We are obliged to do what we can to take care of someone. Especially in the last 10–15 years, a lot of positive has been done to protect the health of veterans. It started with the big shot message from the protector to the veteran. In 2011, there was an action plan, and in 2014 the follow-up plan came. Today, we are going to deal with the big message, too, when it is required – veterans in our time, which is another good and important step in the right direction. A number of our veterans filled highly trusted positions that required security clearance and a high level of trust. They performed tasks on behalf of our country that required proper assessments. If they were wrong, Norway could be in a very bad light, to put it mildly. Someone came home and needed support from us who sent them out, someone was met with distrust and the experience of not being believed when they applied for compensation. It is not okay that case handlers should immediately review specialist statements. There is a high likelihood that at least one of the 478 rejected applications for financial compensation in the period 2010–2019 is subject to procedural errors. It is a great burden to walk the way of justice, a burden to a veteran from a trusted service should be released. I believe that there is so much to suggest that case handlers have rejected applications on unsubstantiated terms, that they are concerned, should have the right to look at the matter again, with new, independent eyes. I am therefore going to support point 4 of the opposition in the draft representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e508	I have grown up so well that I remember the harsh boys from my small municipality traveling to Gaza. I hear a lot of people here mention that it's Lebanon that applies, but it was the choice of these young guys -- whether to start at Ashim Rubber goods factory, to go to sea on whaling or to join the Defense, and then to serve abroad. However, the experience was that when Uncle came back from Gaza and later some from Lebanon – in my close family – they were still harsh, and they were surrounded by the girls, but the damage was there, and they came only later. Since 1947, more than 100,000 women and men have served in international operations for Norway — in four parts of the world to date, 40 countries, over 40 operations. There are many, because there are already 39 000 Norwegians in the group of our veterans, and at any time several hundred Norwegian soldiers are serving in the international effort. Being a veteran is an honorary term, but also a term that has given experience and joy, but also many plagues and injuries. We have a special responsibility to care for those who choose to wear uniforms for our country and go out on a mission for Norway, in what is shown in the government's veterinary work. It is working for peace and taking peace seriously. I'm very happy that we're getting a vet report, and that we've had an important impact on improving the rights of the veterans. The measures will make it easier for the veterans at home, inter alia. they will give families better rights when one of their parents is in international service. There are a number of good and concrete measures that are now combined in the rights of the veterans, and a promise has been made: unremunerated parental leave, compensation for it to domestic parents where the person out of international operations does not receive his or her mother's or father's allowance because of the service; compensation for home days with sick children for those in international operations and not being taken out offer of a couple conversation under the direction of the Bufetat Children's, Youth's and Family's budget prior to departure I could have mentioned many. I still think there will be a discussion in the future, as we heard at the hearing, among other things. from the Moss Family Protection Office that regional centres of expertise may be needed. If you come as a 50-, 60- or 70-year-old and meet a newly-trained doctor or psychologist, it's certainly not everyone who has the competence to meet with you from that point of view. This is where the policy is up to the exam – in response to the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e531	I would like to thank you for a good debate. It shows that it is of great importance when the Stortinge receives such a message for review, and we have managed to create good policies in this room. I just want to make a comment on what the Minister of Defence said about pay – that is because we want to continue today's system. This is very specialized juice. It is difficult, and in reality, what the Minister of Defence said from the pulpit meant, a weakening of the legal security of the veterans. These are very difficult issues, and now when he calls for a reduction in salaries, it will mean that they will weaken their legal certainty. But the reason I took the floor was the Secretary of Defense said about the paper issue. I therefore cannot understand why the Left and Christian People's Party are not in favour of our proposal to engage in dialogue with the organisations of the elected representatives. This is not a proposal that comes from the Joint Organisation of the Commanders, it does not come from the Federation of Officers, and now during the debate I have been in contact with the Secretary-General of SIOPS and NVIO and I ask: Is it right, as the Minister of Defence says, that this is input from you? None of the Secretary-General knows each other. Then I almost have to ask: is it so that the Minister of Defence misinformed the Storting? The last time I asked about this matter, I was told that I misunderstood. Now I have obviously not misunderstood. You have to be able to buy out the paperwork. And then he says in the line change here that he got this from the veteran organizations, but none of these veteran organizations recognize themselves. Then it becomes even more incomprehensible why the government parties cannot vote in favour of our proposal to engage in dialogue with the organisations of the elected representatives. It may be said that it is voluntary, but with the everyday presence of Norwegian soldiers, where you are often out there and often in international operations, it will weaken the rights of many soldiers. I think that is wrong; it is contrary to good family policy. The paperwork is just a right for many of the dads who are in a difficult job, so that they can respect their rights. I think it's serious that the Minister of Defense draws up two veteran organisations and says that this is a recording from them, when there's really no input from any of these organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e546	A little hesitant, but this is a very important matter for me, so I had to take the word. This year, 75 years have passed since peace came to Norway. It was after five long years of war and occupation, which may seem distant today, but which emphasizes just the importance of taking care of those who are out there and defending our freedom. The progress party has long been interested in the veterans and not least their relatives. When I was a town councillor in Bergen, I was responsible for the municipal vetting, and it's an engagement I've brought here to Stortinget. Through my meetings with veterans and the different organizations, I know what that means to get the recognition you are entitled to. And then you know there's a lot of veterans who haven't come home completely. There may be physical or mental damage, and they may appear after many years. These are men and women that we're sending out with the Norwegian flag on the chest. They're making an effort for Norway, they're making an effort for the world. We know that when they come home, there are many people who get tough everyday, and then we have a special responsibility to follow them up when they get home, and not least to give them the right information. One of my strongest meetings with the veterans was maybe on vet's day in Trondheim five years ago. Here I met people who were incredibly proud of their contribution, their efforts, but who, unfortunately, had also known the feeling of feeling forgotten and failed by the system. It's not durable. We know that many veterans have actually had to fight for a long time, often alone, to get that recognition and support that they were entitled to. Fortunately, we have come a little further today. It's happened a lot over the last few years, but I'm very happy that we have these two issues to deal with today, and as a family politician, I also think it's worth drawing out that you now have an even greater focus on them around, the family, and not least the children. On this day, I will also stress the importance of our local elected representatives being conscious of their responsibilities. Our veterans live in the municipalities. Their scientific plans must explain how best to honor, care and benefit from soldiers who have served in international operations. And last, but not least, I would like to thank all those who have sent contributions to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e563	I have some points on the tamp. In the case of pay to lawyers, we have many compensation schemes in Norway where public pay rates are used, and I believe that it is not a weakening of the legal security of the veterans if we are to achieve a level playing field. For objective treatment: we look for that even when we move the appeal treatment from the Ministry of Defence to the civil law department. This is, of course, about non-discrimination and treatment that follows the second sentence and the practice we have in this area. That is why I think this is a good sign. In the case of veterinary organisations: No, NVIO and SIOPS, they work a lot with members who have been out and who are no longer serving. There's one who's called Veteran meets Veteran, and who largely organizes constantly serving personnel. They've been recording about parental leave. Then I think that in such a serious matter we should perhaps stay away from a suspicion that I am making up my mind. I think maybe this hall should be all right without that. And then finally, I want to say, look around at all of the things that have happened these years. We have a good scientific policy in this area now, which we are also taking on. Things happen regionally: the county is engaged in the field of veterinary affairs, and more and more municipalities are now making scientific plans and veteran strategies. There's been a lot of progress in the years we've been working on this policy area, and I think we should be a little grateful for that. Then we're going to take up the bumps and the problems that come along. To replace it: Yes, I believe that the working group that was set up and that took a review of this has done an important job, and we follow up their recommendations, for the benefit of veterans in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e581	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e598	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e605	As the President referred to, we have a motion for a resolution on the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The background to this is both the information that has emerged about significant losses for Equinor in the United States, and claims of wasteful spending by means and a slightly daunting way of spending money, which is a good reason – and absolutely necessary – to ask questions about. But then it is proposed to have a parliamentary committee of inquiry. For the sake of transparency only: since 1985, i.e. the last 35 years, the Grand Duchy has set up seven parliamentary committees of inquiry. The last, whether research policy and injustice towards cohabitants, women and Norwegian Finns, are still at work, i.e. six completed. During our period as Control and Constitutional Committee, we have examined one review report from the Scandinavian Star Commission – it was discussed here in the Stortinget in 2018. For all the parliamentary committees of inquiry, they are large, they are extensive, and they take a long time. The most common thing is that it takes approx. two years after the Commission has been set up, until the Commission has completed its work, and an additional time before it is discussed here in the Stortinget. That means that the majority of the committee thinks that the investigation commission is a little suitable instrument in this matter, which I just said is important to be highlighted. In addition, on 10 June of this year, the Minister for Oil and Energy made a statement here in the Stortinget. The Storting decided to send it to the current technical committee, i.e. the Energy and Environment Committee. They are now running and dealing with this matter and, as far as I understand, they are going to carry out hearings on 3 November. This means, therefore, that the good questions raised in the draft document 8 as a proposal for a review commission, if any, will be addressed and the Council of State will be confronted with them in the hearing to be held in Stortinget. So there is a general consensus that this is a question that the Storting must address, but that we are doing it in a normally controlling manner, and that a parliamentaryally appointed committee of inquiry is not a suitable instrument for achieving the control the Storting should exercise in this matter. It is therefore proposed that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e618	The right is in the majority position in this case. The right-hand side of the proposaler’s view of the gravity of the matter and believes that the Storting must be clear about how this could happen and how this unculture could develop. We don't think, as a previous speaker said, that a major investigation commission is the way to go. It will take a very long time, from experience, as we have experienced from previous major investigation commissions, as also mentioned before. In these days, the Energy and Environment Committee will be considering the presentation of the Council of State to the European Parliament on 10 June. It will provide rapid treatment, and important clarifications and issues and critical questions will be addressed there. They also need a hearing. In addition, the Riksrevision intends to submit a report on the matter as part of Document 3:2 during the autumn of 2020, and that report will be addressed to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e627	This is, in essence, a brief explanation of vote also from the Progress Party, to stress that we take a serious view of the matter. What has come out here are things that it's important to get caught up in. Like the previous speakers, we believe that the most important thing now is to follow the consultation of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. Then also comes the National Audit Office's investigation, and I am absolutely sure that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee will be able to get hold of this matter later. I would also like to thank the Council of State for the statement she made in June, which is now being discussed. The signals given by the Minister of Energy to address the matter are also important. That is why the Progress Party will support the majority that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e636	Unquestionably, very unfortunate aspects of Equinor’s foreign investment have emerged, both in the United States and Angola. Poor financial management and the lack of follow-up of red internal audit reports have led to considerable losses. In Angola, the payments made by Equinor for social purposes, including a research and technology centre that has not yet been realised, have led to the Committee on Control continuing to raise critical questions. It's serious in a matter where the state is the main shareholder. Equinor has lost significant amounts after investing in the United States. Investments in the order of 250 billion kr has led to a carryable tax loss of 200 billion. kr. This raises questions about the ownership management of the company from the partial privatisation in 2001 until today. The size has to be clear on how this could happen. At the same time, it is a fact that a majority of this sample of privately privatised Statoil in 2001, with the consequences it also has for ownership management and dialogue. The State has no rights other than those of other shareholders, nor on the information page. It is the management and management of the company that is responsible for the management of the company and that it is done in the interests of the company and its owners. The central party shares the opinion of the proposer on the seriousness of the matter. There is a need to clarify what has happened, and to clear up, so that we can learn from what has happened. The Council of State made a thorough statement in Stortinget on the matter on 10 June. It has now been forwarded to the Energy and Environment Committee for consideration, and the Committee has the matter on its table these days. We look forward to the conclusions and answers that come there. Later in the autumn, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee will also receive a report from the National Audit Office on the company’s foreign investment. It will address the Committee on Control and Constitution when it is available, and it will also provide a good opportunity for the absolutely necessary debate on the matter. Overall, this provides a faster treatment of key issues related to Equinor’s foreign investment and exposure. It provides a better opportunity to get answers to the unanswered questions that we might have than a grand-appointed review commission could give. The centre party cannot therefore support the proposal put forward today by the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e651	Recent findings on Equinor’s activity abroad show that there is a need for a critical look. In the United States, Equinor's massive investment has led to a tax deficit of over 200 billion. kr. We've read about how thousands of checks have been made this month, about the lack of financial management, and not least about a business culture that we don't know about, to put it mildly, in Norway. Equinor is not any company, and that's why it gets so serious. Critical, so-called ugliness, reports have come from the United States and to the government of the group for a long time. Why hasn't this been cleaned up before? What has been the state’s signals in the ownership management of Equinor? What has the Ministry known about, among other things, the mildly criticised financial management? There are many and big questions that we have to ask ourselves, and SV pursues this matter through the discussion that is now taking place in the Energy and Environment Committee. But then the MDG has put forward a proposal that we are discussing today, that the Storting should put down an independent and external investigation. I think there are some good reasons to support it. Only the U.S. case is very extensive and by its very nature challenging for us to go deep here in Stortinget. We have been able to read about, for example: trailer load with attachment. The matter is very serious, goes back a long way in time, involves many actors, among others. The state that owns the company, but we also see other issues about Equinor's foreign investment. The Monitoring Committee is now in dialogue with the Minister of Oil and Energy on Equinor's activities in Angola, to give an example. Therefore, we believe that there may be grounds for an external and independent examination of Equinor’s foreign investment and the Ministry’s ownership management as a whole, among others. including the case in the United States. The proposal we are now considering is about to do just that. There will be no conflict with the more immediate treatment that the Committee on Energy and the Environment is now dealing with in the United States – on the contrary. We have previously dealt with important issues in several rounds – first through consideration in the committee in Stortingen, and then we have dealt with the outcome of a more careful, thorough and longer-term review. We're going to do the exact same thing now in the social security scandal, for example, just that it was the government that put down the sample in that case. Similarly, we can get quick answers and clarifications now, and then go into depth later, when we might get a report from such an investigation commission. I believe that this case, which deals with massive values and the ownership of an extremely important company, had benefited. SV has chosen to support MDG's representative proposal in the setting, and I now address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e670	Then the representative Freddy André Hövstegård has taken up the proposal behind the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e675	Equinor's investment in the United States is the biggest industrial disaster and the biggest industrial failure in Norway's history. Following a number of disclosures in the Today's Enterprises on billions of Equinor in the United States and critical internal audit reports on the country-based business there, the company hired PwC to conduct a separate review of the company's internal operations and international activities. The report was published on Friday 9 October, and its findings are so serious that the consultation under the auspices of the Energy and Environment Committee on Equinor’s US scandals has been postponed and expanded. Initially, it was opened for state councils to be invited from 2014 onwards. Now former government councils and directors will also be invited. We in the Greens take it as a recognition of our concern, as among others. has been investigating the history of ownership management of what was Statoil, now Equinor, by changing governments in the last 20 years. As mentioned earlier, that consultation will help to shed light on ownership management, the dialogue between the company and the department that owns. What the department has been told, when they have received the information, and what information has been requested, will be questions that need to be answered. That's all right, but we in the Greens believe that since this is about investigating relations with the state and a state majority-owned company for a long time, there is a need for an independent investigation commission with the necessary professional competence and integrity that can examine the matter independently and independently of the Stortinget and the government. We in the Greens appreciate the fact that the Committee shares our views on the gravity of the matter and agrees that the Storting should be able to clarify how this could be done, but we disagree with the proposal that an independent investigation can be rejected because large-scale investigations take time. Firstly, it is no law of nature that a study should take a long time. Secondly, it is hardly a value in itself that such a serious case should be dealt with as quickly as possible. Thirdly, such a proposal does not respond to the need for professional competence and integrity and in particular independence and independence from the Storting. We in the Greens think it is particularly important to independently investigate a matter that is going to investigate relations with the state and a state majority-owned company that has been run by different governments from different parties for a long time. We therefore very much appreciate that SV supports our proposal for a large-scale investigation. We believe that a clear mandate to a review commission with particularly appropriate professional competence will have a completely different capacity to investigate matters than the Riksrevision will have in its annual control over the management of state companies. At the same time, it is positive that the Riksrevision in June announced that they will present findings and recommendations in the autumn based on an examination of the ownership dialogue with Equinor and how the Ministry of Oil and Energy has managed the company. We expect that both the deferred hearing and the National Audit Office’s report will provide more answers and recommendations. A concrete example of what we want more information about is ownership management. In a 2014 confidential report in which the consulting company THEMA Consulting evaluated the oil and energy department’s exercise of its ownership role, it says – and I quote: The state, by OED, is perceived as a strikingly invisible owner, given the size of the state's holding. In the worst case, it may contribute to a certain kind of suspicion that something is happening in enclosed spaces with which the market is not familiar. If, following the hearing and the report of the National Audit Office, there are still unanswered questions or doubts about the quality of ownership management, the issue of independent scrutiny should be re-examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e696	On June 10th, I gave a statement to the Great Britain about Equinor's business in the United States and the state's follow-up. It is now under consideration in the Energy and Environment Committee. I am also aware that the committee is planning a videoconferencing hearing on the matter, and I will put it there. Furthermore, the Riksrevision carries out a study on the follow-up of Equinor’s foreign investment by the Ministry. The Ministry has been informed that the Riksrevision intends to present this report in December this year. As my letter to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of 15 June 2020 shows, it is my opinion that it is not appropriate for a Grand Commission, as proposed by the representative of Bastholm and MDG. The majority of the Committee also recommends that such a Commission should not be set up. In my opinion, the studies I have mentioned above provide a good basis for dealing with this matter. I would also like to point out that in June Equinor's board set up a sample led by a state-authorised auditor from the company PwC for a review of the company's operations in the United States. The aim of the review is to ensure the learning of future business decisions and activities of the company. The report became publicly available last Friday. The report addresses and highlights several points raised by the representative of Bastholm in his proposal. The report provides a thorough review of Equinor’s land-based activities in the United States. The content of the report is serious and points to more critical aspects. The company’s investment in the United States has resulted in considerable losses, and internal control has been a major challenge. The report draws a picture of Equinor underestimating the task they did. They overestimated their own abilities, took too high a risk and reacted too late to address the problems. It is serious how growth went at the expense of value creation and control, and how the complexity of operating in the United States was underestimated. As the largest owner in Equinor, I am concerned about how the company manages the large values in the best way in all the activities of the company, whether oil and gas, renewable energy or other activities, both in Norway and internationally. In the ownership dialogue, I have been involved in Equinor’s international activities in general and in the country’s activities in the United States in particular. I have criticised the company for not showing greater transparency, briefed on the major problems raised in internal audit reports, which were confirmed in the sample report. The report also notes that extensive action has been taken and that internal control has been considerably improved. I also record that there is still improvement work. Finally, I would like to stress that I have been very clear to the company's board of directors and management that I expect them to do what they can to avoid a similar situation in the future, as has been the case with land investments in the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e718	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e723	We appreciate hearing that the Council of State has a clear tone towards the companies. But most of Equinor's investments in the United States required a historically high oil price to be profitable. Equinor has not only lost huge values owned by the Norwegian people, they have also made Equinor and thus Norway a kind of pioneer in the development of some of the world's most polluting energy resources. After Germany actively took management as the precursor nation of solar energy, Equinor, on behalf of the Norwegian people, chose to become a leading company in particular in climate and environmentally harmful energy, such as tar sands and shale gas. It is twice risky for Norwegian state-owned companies to take both a huge environmental and climate risk and at the same time an enormous financial risk, as Equinor has done in this matter. My question is, what will the government do to avoid Equinor and Norwegian state-owned companies generally continuing to gamble with the future of our children and the community's resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e730	How ownership management works is the company and the board that make business decisions, e.g.: in terms of what to invest in and what strategy to adopt. Of course, when it comes to the big losses in the United States, it's serious. Equinor was also not the only company that brought about high oil prices, and therefore lost money when the oil price fell in 2014. But at the end of the day, it is still the company and the board that have to make those assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e737	I would like to ask the State Council a little about the future governance, because, while we are dealing with this matter today – and it is also being discussed in the Energy and Environment Committee – we have a question-making session with the State Council in the Control Committee. What's common to the answers we get is that there's a very long, formal harange about how governance is going to be in shared companies – of course. But it is that a tidy form of governance can both mean that the Council of State, when it comes to the selection of the board of directors, can influence the company – that is a neat way to do it – and the Council of State can take it up at the general meeting and, of course, in own-initiative discussions. In the answers we get, it looks as if the Council of State rather uses sound management to present it as if there should be no control. Then I'm worried, when we see the events we've seen in Equinor. Therefore, my question is: Does the Council of State think that using the composition of the board, the general meeting and the own-initiative discussions are relevant and not contrary to good ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e746	You could call it natural, but in that case there are of course principles that are set out in ownership messages adopted in the Storting over a long time, and which the Workers' Party also fully agrees with. Then I would also say that I do not agree that we do not have good ownership of Equinor. On the contrary – we have had good dialogue with Equinor about the write-downs in the United States since they became known when this happened. I have asked specific questions about this in my follow-up to the company. I have criticised those who have heard it at home. I have also said that I think they should have been more open, even in meetings with us, about what has happened in the United States, not least about the failure of internal control. But anyway, it's a natural thing to point out, for example. that we should not have had access to internal, red reports in Equinor – that is not a matter of course, that is a consequence of the principles that both I and the party represented by the representative agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e753	Since she enters the Workers' Party, I can tell the Council of State that I was the Council of State when the first ownership message was presented – I know the ownership principles. It was presented on the stock exchange precisely because we were going to be tidy, but clear in ownership, and that the clear expectations of ownership should be actively followed up. That's when I get worried, when it comes to the matter of the control committee now under consideration, it turns out that political leadership has not followed up the issue with Angola throughout 2019, nor in 2020, until we started asking our questions. That is the reason why I ask: does the Council of State agree that one can use influence in the composition of the board, democratically and in full transparency, that one can use the general meeting itself to confront the management of the company, and that one can actively pursue the policy that a unanimous enlargement has said should apply to a partial state-owned company?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e762	Yes, I agree, because that's also what we do. We have an active ownership follow-up of this company. We're discussing these things. We have discussed Angola on several occasions since the last time there was contact between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs on that issue. The reason why it was not on the 2019 agenda was that there was no new development in the case. But it has been up again now, in subsequent meetings, in my time as the Council of State. So we have an active ownership management, but we also follow the principles adopted by a large majority, a broad majority, in several rounds, over a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e767	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e786	It's almost tempting to say, "Yes, councillor, this will be between me and you." It is clear that the interest in art education in Norway is very low. I still think this is important. The role of art in a society is to be opinions that both change society and create debate. That is why it was unanimously agreed in this Chamber that the starting point for cultural policy is the regulation of opinions. In Norway, opinions are regulated by the Constitution, with strong protection of freedom of expression. But it is not only a protection of freedom of expression; it is also a requirement for the state to build infrastructure for freedom of expression to take place. Culture policy is based on freedom of expression infrastructure. That is why the role of a State is to facilitate a cultural and art policy that brings forward its opinions. Then it is also our role to facilitate good art education. We've had art education for thousands of years, but it's been more vocational than it's been academic. It has been the master who has taught his friends in all the arts we have traditionally had. Still, I think there are a lot of artists who today choose their education from which master to follow. You choose – more than in very many other subjects – an institution based on the composition of the professorates. You can choose to take education in Norway because you have professors at Norwegian institutions you have a lot of respect and desire to learn from, or you can choose to take education in other countries, because you have other masters you want to follow. Ten years ago, we combined art education in Norway to form one art college. The thinking behind it was both about increasing professionalism and about having a twist from a master's mindset to a more academic mindset also related to art education. For me, who was involved in that process, it was also about the status of art education. In order to increase the status of art education, they were linked to research, doctoral programmes and the possibility of going deeper into the field in a completely different way than had been done with the old masters’ thinking they had for thousands of years. Because it's just me and the council that's here, I can tell you: while the right in government was probably very much for this merger, the left's baby was in the project of having a doctorate program. It made sense to merge because it helped to increase the academic base of the whole process. There's been a debate around the school lately. I do not believe that it is the role of politicians to go into and evaluate such professional debates. I want to take a clear distance from doing that. What worries me, when you have one big art institution that will provide the basis for the training of artists in Norway today, and you have our argument about art as an expression, is that it is perceived and said that there is no room for comments in the learning environment that is there. It's a cause for concern. It at least creates a concern for me. I mean, first of all, that art should always be involved in creating debate, but it is mainly in the debate between citizens and art – if you have a mole as an artist, and have something you want to change. Many of the objectives discussed today at the Academy of Fine Arts are objectives I share very strongly. It's about the fight against racism in society, it's about the fight for equality, and it's about getting rid of many of the old attitudes we all find in us. It is important to work on, but it must be possible in a culture of debate that is open to different opinions. If you're driven by it as an artist, that there's these things you want to ask questions about in our society today, and it's these attitudes in us that you want to challenge every single day, I hope it's art's meeting with the citizens who are going to create that debate -- not first of all to deny other artists, who don't have the perspective they have, to express themselves through their art. That debate has opened up for us politicians, who are responsible for the merger process and for shifting towards a more academic course of education within the arts, now perhaps we should take a foothold and see if we need to evaluate how the merger process went, how the doctoral programmes work, and what should be the next step for our art education in the future. Arts education is linked not only to the Academy of Fine Arts, but also to many other art institutions around Norway that train people in different artistic environments. If you want to define art a little bit wider, it also applies to architecture, for example. There is no need to define art widely at all in order to define music education as an important part of art education in Norway today. I also thought it would have been interesting if you looked at how we contribute with these creative industries, and how we educate from there into society in the future. We know that art and culture and these areas of competence are going to become more important and important, because the creative processes of change in a society that is changing faster and faster are going to become more important and more important. Having competence in creative change processes, having competence in challenging given truths and finding other ways to think about change processes will be important in our society in the future. The break-in between e.g. design and communication will become more important and important in the future. We also see gaps between the different social roles, for example. the gaming environment up against the knowledge environment, and how design comes up against it by digital means, such as: These breaks are going to be more important and more important. I hope that we can have a review that will both evaluate the doctoral programmes and their organisational location in our research structure, which we have done only once before – just after they were introduced – and look at how art education will ensure the breadth that is important for Norway to develop and get good artists forward who can participate and influence the public debate. Then we also had a professional assessment of whether we can keep a broad spectrum of institutions and be able to have a public discourse where freedom of expression is put first in the idea of the artistic discourse. I'm not trying to say that politicians are going to take sides in academic discourses in our art education, but I think it's our job, when questions about freedom of expression are asked in one of the fields where freedom of expression is so important to develop good art and culture for society and citizens, and to develop society with that art and culture, to say that now it might be time to take a foot in the ground and make an evaluation of those art educations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e816	I would like to take the opportunity first to thank the representative, Trine Skei Grande, for lifting this interpellation. This is an important discussion, which I believe absolutely belongs also to the Stockholm pulpit. The summer debate at the Academy of Arts in Oslo has not gone unnoticed. Through open letters and subsequent appeals, several students have suggested that the Academy of Fine Arts should take greater responsibility for combating racism. The debate was triggered by reactions to a work of art in the common area of the school and followed by a bulwark of measures to make the school more inclusive. The measures have aroused both enthusiasm and perturbation. I agree with the representative Skei Grande that the Academy of Fine Arts in Oslo should be an arena for free thinking, professional thoroughness and education of tomorrow's artists. It shall not be such that students at the Academy of Fine Arts are excluded from their study environment. I think that also applies to all other institutions. As the representative knows, the debate at the Academy of Fine Arts is also part of an ongoing debate on police violence and racism in the United States, with distinctions to another debate, on inclusion and the perspective of minorities in general. I think this debate is important, and we have challenges here in Norway too. An important prerequisite for social progress is free debate and tolerance for different points of view. Tolerance is demanding because it means that we actually have to have tolerance with different points of view. Here our higher education institutions have a special responsibility and some clear standards to live up to. The debates in the Academy shall be fair and exonerated, and a change of words must be worked out in which everyone can participate. There are different views of art, literature, theatre and dance. There are different views on what is racism, and what are good measures for increased inclusion. These are things that should be debated in substance at all educational institutions and not least in society in general. At the same time, I want more substantive debate on the content of different study offers. As Minister of Research and Higher Education, I am committed to ensuring the country's students solid education at a high international level. This is clearly reflected in the Law on Higher Education, and debate and dissent are an important part of this picture. The high quality of education, research and artistic development, as the representative knows, has underpinned this government's commitment to higher education. The main messages «Concentration of Quality» and «Culture of Quality in Higher Education» detail government policy when it comes to both institutional structure and educational quality. Universities and colleges shall promote and protect academic freedom and ensure that activities are carried out in accordance with recognised scientific, artistic, educational and ethical principles. As I see it, there are two things that could threaten the academy. One is tightening up freedom of expression and not allowing others to express things that we don't like. The second is stronger governance by politicians of what should be the content and curriculum of education and what should be researched. The representative Skei Grande points out quite correctly that it is not her goal to rule this politically. I have never suspected the representative of that either. But when this case and this interpellation became known, I can tell you that I received many requests with the wish that I should go in and manage the curriculum and the content of higher education. When discussions about content and syllabus appear, politicians are often asked to control more and decide which syllabus is approved or not. Then we open a whole new door and a way to run the academy that they do in countries we don't like to compare with, even countries we used to like to compare with, but not so much anymore. To answer the representative Skei Grande's question, I'm not going to carry out my own evaluation of how the Academy of Art in Oslo organizes its own activities. The University and Higher Education Act explicitly states about the responsibilities of the Board of Directors: «The Governing Board itself determines the internal organisation of the business at all levels.» Since 2011, the professional activities of the Academy of Fine Arts have been organised in six departments. After a long and solid quality work, the school was accredited as a scientific university in 2018. The Rectorate was strengthened by a pro-rectorial position for research, and an administrative research team was set up to support management. The Management Board adopted a reorganisation of the Joint Administrative Board in December 2017. This reorganisation is planned to be evaluated for the next harvest. However, I do not see that this reorganisation has had an impact on the institution's efforts to produce talents and free and creative thinking. NOKUT's study barometer for 2019 shows that students at the Academy of Fine Arts in Oslo are very much satisfied with their study programmes. In addition, the Academy of Fine Arts has cooperated with several national institutions on a fairness committee to contribute to increased attention to research ethics at the institution. The institution also has an obligation to have a quality assurance system to ensure and further develop the quality of its education. The students have an important voice in this continuous quality work. SOMETHING regularly oversees and conducts annual studies to obtain students’ views on the education they have taken up. The next supervision at the Academy of Fine Arts is the spring of 2021. I believe that we have a solid, credible and predictable system to ensure that our educational institutions provide high-quality education. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am sure that the Oslo Academy of Fine Arts will address its own challenges and work for a climate of debate that is inclusive, whether it is a minority or a majority in capacity from its background, orientation or opinion. A leading art higher education school depends on a high ceiling to be able to debate art and contemporary art. Large ceiling height will make the Academy of Fine Arts an even better school and an even more exciting place to be. It is important to say that we are far from the so-called "cancel culture" states in the United States and elsewhere in the world. The goal must be not to end up there in the future, and then it is important that debates like this are promised on the Biggest, in the Academy and in society in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e851	I had not expected the Council of Asheim to be like Gudmund Hernes, who set up his own professorates at the Academy of Fine Arts to preserve the art of which he was concerned. I hope we don't come back to that. However, I would like to follow up on two questions in connection with the fact that the Council of State at all rejected its own evaluation. Point 1: What happens if the new student studies show that students not only through the media, but also through the more objective criteria we use for student feedback, say that freedom of expression is restricted in such an important institution as the Academy of Fine Arts is in Norwegian society? Point 2: When the research programmes were implemented, they were evaluated after two years – from my memory. Had it not been time to have a new evaluation of the academic races, because there was some new work in Norway when we also said that it was possible to make doctoral courses in the arts sector? I thought it was a very important move, but it could have given us now, after ten years, an opportunity to look at it as well, and we could have gotten some international glances, got some international researchers to look at these doctoral courses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e858	The question from the representative Skei Grande was what do we do if it turns out through the student survey, which we are doing quite correctly, that freedom of expression is threatened. That is why it is important for me to say – and I said a little in my article about what has been done – that it has been done far more than that. The Academy of Fine Arts has sent a certified report to the Ministry of Knowledge as background information and with the status of this situation at the Academy of Fine Arts. There they explain how they preserve artistic and academic freedom, how to strengthen artistic development and research, and how to start work on diversity and inclusion at the Academy of Fine Arts. We have been in dialogue with the Academy of Fine Arts, and they have reported back that they are following this up and have also taken concrete action. Therefore, when we are going to discuss this matter and, if necessary, evaluate an evaluation, I will not reject it for all future, but I now believe that I have also explained the things that will be done in the current academic year, i.e. this autumn and this spring, in addition to the feedback we have received from the Academy of Fine Arts. For the time being, as the responsible State Council, I am satisfied with those answers. Then, of course, we will have to follow specific feedback from the students, as the representative Skei Grande promises: if they feel that there is not enough ceiling in the future to take these important debates, we need to have a new assessment of what we can do. But right now, I'm most concerned about following up the decisions that have been made, and the evaluations that are to be carried out, and then we're going to follow developments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e867	Then the interpellant debate is over. So today's map is ready to debate. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e890	The size is ready to go to voting. Before the vote starts, the President will give Mr Elves the floor for an explanation of vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e897	It concerns proposal No. 3 in the setting, page 8. That proposal will be supported by the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e902	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e914	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from the Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a new action plan for the provision of staff before, during and after foreign service. The plan shall help to clarify the actions of the Government's action plan and follow-up plan to be continued. [[2011]] [[2014]] Furthermore, the plan shall contain concrete objectives, targets and actions for the three priority policy areas set out in the Communication: the preservation of the children and families of personnel, the further development of competence and interaction in civil auxiliaries and research. [[1]] [[2]] [[3]] In addition, the plan shall specify objectives, targets and actions for a fourth area: transparency and culture of mental health in defence.’ [[4]] The Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e940	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to engage in dialogue with the Defence, Employees’ Organisations and Veteran Organisations in order to ensure the possibility of equal parental leave and financial stability for the families of foreign defence personnel.’; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e957	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a survey of priority research areas related to foreign defence personnel. This shall provide the basis for a strategy for Norwegian scientific research.’» All the other parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e1021	First, I, II, and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e1031	It's said over III. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e1045	It is added over IV. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e1066	During the debate, Freddy André Øvstegård put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. A review commission is appointed to examine Statoil/Equinor’s losses and business operations in relation to massive losses on their foreign investment. 2nd@item: inlistbox The mandate of the Audit Commission to examine the massive losses of Statoil/Equinor on their foreign investment shall include these points: This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. State ownership management of Equinor and state ownership dialogue with Equinor from the partial privatisation of Statoil in 2001 until today. b. Direct control by the State of the State of the whole state oil company Statoil (the Norwegian State oil company) [[DNSO]] c. Address relevant issues such as: i. Have the relevant government councils been aware of the situation related to Equinor’s investment in the United States, and what have been the consequences for the governance dialogue that has taken place between the State and Equinor in these circumstances? ii. Has the State, management or board of Equinor been familiar with internal accountancy reports in Equinor that tell of chaos, poor control and high money usage; costly social events, sky-high wages, off-balance-sheet receipts, double-paid bills and forgotten bank accounts with billions? ( iii Has the State as owner and Equinor lack of culture and unclear ethical guidelines [[especially in the United States]] lack of control procedures and follow-up of red reports? lack of transparency, both towards politicians, public opinion and owners? lack of procedures and process both with regard to internal control, internal reporting and internal culture/ethics? iv. Why was it not followed up by the Financial Supervisory Authority in 2014 that Equinor should report separately on the US business and thus make the loss situation visible to its owners and the public? iv. Why was it not followed up by the Financial Supervisory Authority in 2014 that Equinor should report separately on the US business and thus make the loss situation visible to its owners and the public? d. Suggest how the State can impose stricter requirements on Equinor to set up business operations so as to avoid similar losses and strategic misinvestments. in the early 20th century C.E. propose changes in how the State manages its ownership of Equinor in order to avoid similar losses and strategic misinvestments, including considering separating and selling Equinor’s foreign portfolio. f. Assess whether there are possible criminal offences following these disclosures and after the investigation.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e1143	Case No. 4 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e1176	The President proposes that this matter be sent to the Health and Welfare Committee. Mr Wilkinson has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e1183	Until now, the government has shown that they do not take the Stomic case seriously. Media has shown the brutal cut policy, and it has been a nuisance to the government. The government will remove the cut of granules, but has no solutions for the other things the children and the adults need. Thousands of people, many children, are in an insecure situation with high extra costs. Whether you have money or not, don’t decide if your child should feel hurt when changing your steam equipment. The government didn't realize that. That is why it is so important to get urgent treatment under Section 39(c) for this case. I ask the representatives in the Chamber to support urgent procedure. Help these children, these families and the people who need help! If it goes to committee, SV will have it dealt with quickly. The size should push the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e1192	I take the floor for an explanation of vote. There was a message from Helfo a few days ago that the gel cullet limit had been lifted, but we are aware that there are still other products affected by the quota limit for steam equipment. This is what we in the Labour Party are prepared to deal with quickly in committee, but we believe that the matter should be dealt with a little wider than by adopting the proposal today. We want a rapid examination in committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e1199	I also take the floor for an explanation of vote. The Party agrees that persons with stutter must have access to consumables and that the number of restrictions imposed has given very bad results to families with children. For the past few weeks, we have all been contacted by families who now have unnecessary monthly extra costs of several thousand kroner. The progress party does not understand why this group should be hit so hard, and believes that this needs to be cleaned up. That is why we have asked some questions to the Minister of Health and today have received confirmation that the Minister of Health has understood seriously. The number limit on granules in valid condition shall be removed from 1 November. It will have retroactive effect, so that all families who have had expenses for this year will be refunded. On 16 October, tomorrow, there will be a meeting between the NORILCO, Helfo and the Health Directorate to discuss the level of the other product groups. If those who come to the conclusion that the roof should be raised or removed, the Minister of Health has given us confirmation that he will then ensure that users receive reimbursement of the interpretations they have had up to now. In the light of this response and the confirmation by the Minister for Health, I would recommend that the Group of the Progressive Alliance support the committee's consideration of the proposal, as proposed by the Presidency. As I see it, there is no need for urgent procedure in the matter, for this can be clarified already tomorrow or within a very short time. If this is not done, the Progress Party will closely follow it up in committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e1210	We also understand the content of the proposal that SV here has made, but as long as dialogue between patient organisations and authorities is ongoing on this matter, it would be wise to bring the outcome and the outcome of that dialogue before any decision is taken on the proposal. Then a quick committee procedure is the most sensible way to deal with the matter. That's why I recommend the Center Party's group to go in for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e1215	Several have not asked for the word. The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, has requested the urgency of the draft representative. The Committee and the European Parliament may work and take their decisions quickly if the majority so wishes. The President therefore maintains his proposal on committee procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e1231	Further references were made: 5th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Helge André Njåstad, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Silje Hämdal, Morten Stordalen, Terje Halleland, Roy Steffensen, Bård Hoksrud, Tor André Johnsen, Bengt Rune Strifeldt and Himanshu Gulati on the withdrawal of State and State Road Administration's right of objection in matters of land and land (Document 8:22 S [[50]] [[2020-2021]] Onest. : To be sent to the Municipal and Management Committee. 6th@item: inlistbox Representative of the Landfill Representatives Terje Halleland, Sylvi Listhaug and Kjell-Børge Freiberg to postpone the requirement of zero emissions in the World Heritage fjords from 2026 (Document 8:23 S [[51]] [[2020-2021]] Onest. : to be sent to the Economic and Social Committee, which shall submit its draft recommendation to the Energy and Environment Committee for an opinion prior to its vote. 7th@item: inlistbox Representatives of the Landfill Representatives Arne Nävra, Lars Haltbrecken and Kari Elisabeth Kaski to develop a new national bicycle strategy for Norway (Document 8:24 S [[52]] [[2020-2021]] Onest. : Sent to the Transport and Communications Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-15.ana.ud254e1250	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
