ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e60	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e65	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Storing Jenny Klinge, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Emilie Enger Mehl and myself to evaluate the 2017 change in the Mental Health Act on the introduction of consent requirements for inclusion in mandatory mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e70	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e86	Since Minister of Health and Health Bent Höie was here and explained on 13 October, the situation has changed dramatically — both in Europe and here in Norway. My main message today is that the next few weeks will have to stay at home as much as possible and limit social contact with other people. Only in the last three weeks have we had more than 6,000 infected people in Norway. Although far fewer sick people were tested at the beginning of the pandemic, it is thoughtful that this represents almost a third of all those who have been confirmed infected since March. The curve gets steeper week by week. This past week, we've recorded almost as many infections as we did in September, and we're waking up to ever-new infectious cords. The real number of people infected is even higher than what we catch. The Public Health Institute expects that 60 pst. the cases of infection are not detected. Isolation, infection detection and quarantine are not initiated when the infection is not detected. In addition, the source of infection is unknown for one of the trees that test positive for covid-19. The situation is very serious. If infection continues to develop in the same way, we can experience the same thing as more and more countries in Europe experience. In the Czech Republic, the number of deaths in the last two weeks exceeds 20 per 100,000 inhabitants. Over the same period, over 1.5 pst. the population tested positive for covid-19. Similar contagion rates can be seen in Belgium. Other countries come after. Fear is a health service that collapses. France’s President Macron recently stated that the virus is spreading at a speed that even the most pessimistic predictions could not predict. In the United Kingdom, the spread of infection is far greater than that taken into account by health authorities in their ‘worst-case scenario’. In Norway, we are not yet in that phase. But we can also be on our way there. And here, too, the virus spreads faster than we anticipated. All counties now have more than 20 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in the last 14 days. For Norway as a whole, the figure is 91.8. We haven't lost control of the situation, but we have less control than we want, and it goes in the wrong direction. It is increasingly demanding to find the source of infection for more and more infected people. It weakens the control of the spread of infection. The municipalities still have control over the work on testing, isolation, tracking and quarantine, what we call TISK, but the capacity is under pressure, and in some municipalities under strong pressure. If the infection continues to increase, we may lose control. Most importantly, hospitals may be overwhelmed by the number of patients in need of treatment. We're not there right now. But if that happens, we've lost control of the situation. Developments can be reversed if we put in place stronger measures to limit mobility and reduce social contact between people. This means that people have to stay at home as far as possible and have the least possible contact with others than their closest. All counties and nearly 60 municipalities experience an increase in infection. Right now the situation is particularly serious in and around Oslo and Bergen, but also many smaller municipalities experience significant outbreaks. The measures taken have not been sufficient to stop the spread of infection. All European countries are now introducing or reintroducing stringent measures. The tendency is for countries to go from local to national measures when local measures do not extend to and there is a risk that healthcare capacity will be challenged. We have to be able to limit the spread in urban areas such as Oslo, Drammen and Bergen, shut down outbreaks we see across the country, and significantly limit the infection of imports. If we don't succeed, it's very likely that the infection will come out of control. Infectious detection, testing and management of outbreaks are essential to stop and prevent further outbreaks. We know that many municipalities are struggling with the capacity, especially in terms of infection tracking. Cooperation between municipalities, creative solutions to deploy additional personnel, etc. is unable to cope in the long run with the combination of many outbreaks and many infected people who again have many close contacts. The Health Directorate’s assessment is that the capacity of municipalities to handle the pandemic will collapse long before the capacity of the intensive care units in hospitals. Since spring, the capacity to treat patients with covid-19 in hospitals has been strengthened. More equipment has been acquired, more personnel have been trained, better plans have been made, and we have more experience. However, it is not desirable that we get into a situation where we are forced to use the increased preparedness. The Health Directorate has estimated that we will see a significant increase in the number of patients requiring intensive care, the nearest weeks. At the end of November, we may risk that many patients need intensive treatment for covid-19. If we do not manage to break the trend together, the reserve capacity for intensive treatment will be covered within a few months. In such a situation, health businesses need to redeploy resources and reduce planned activities. A large coating of covid-19 patients requiring intensive treatment will lead to less intensive capacity for other acute health care. Since April, hospitals have been able to take back many of the studies and treatments that were exposed during the winter. With such a development we now see, many studies and treatments can once again be postponed. On 7 May the Government adopted a long-term strategy and plan for the management of the coronary apathy and adjustment of the measures. The aim of the strategy was to keep the spread of infection under control. The strategy was followed up by a contingency plan for disease prevention measures that can be implemented by increasing the spread of infection. When, in spring, we reduced the level of action, we were clear that action aimed at children was to be removed first, then measures affecting employment and economic interests, and finally other measures. This order of priority still applies. This means that when we tighten up, we want to protect children, young people and vulnerable groups as far as possible. As we step up the measures, the objective is to reduce the burden on the disease and to allow health and care services to manage the number of patients. Last week the Government decided on the following changes to the measures: advice not to have more than five guests in private homes general advice on fewer social contacts a limit of 50 persons for private gatherings in public places or in rented or borrowed premises; requirements for fixed seats at outdoor events where three times 200 participants may be present strengthening the control, supervision and increased resources of local authorities for this work; requirements for the quarantine of foreign workers coming to Norway from countries with a particularly high level of infection; the requirement that non-resident workers in recreational quarantine be accommodated in single rooms; high-infection municipalities were asked to consider further concrete measures It is premature to assess the effectiveness of these measures. However, over the past week, infection increased even more than the government feared when the measures were designed. The risk of losing control has increased. There is therefore a need for further intensification. The Government has therefore decided on the following new changes to the measures: We recommend that all stay at home as much as possible in the coming weeks and limit social contact with other people. Maybe that's the most important recommendation we have, because it makes the local authorities' infection tracking easier. Young and adults who have been in situations where it has been difficult to keep at least one metre away should keep at least two metres away when visiting persons in the risk groups. We introduce a limit of up to 20 people at private gatherings and 50 people at indoor events without fixed seats. Indoors there may still be up to 200 people at events where everyone in the audience is sitting in fixed seats. Unnecessary domestic travel should be avoided. Work trips deemed necessary and trips to recreational estates that can be carried out without contact with others are excluded. National bulwark stop is introduced at 0 p.m. 24th@item: inlistbox New guests cannot be allowed in after 0 p.m. 22nd@item: inlistbox This applies from midnight to Saturday 7 November. Foreign travellers to Norway coming from red countries or regions must present negative covid-19 tests before entering Norway. The test must have been taken less than 72 hours before entry. This will be implemented from midnight night to Monday 9 November. Persons coming without a permanent stay or work or contracting entity in Norway must stay at a quarantine hotel and test themselves for a period of up to 10 days. The period may be reduced when the effect of negative tests before entry and testing in Norway is further assessed. The Directorate for Health has been entrusted with the task of clarifying how these requirements can be implemented. A number of new measures are added to the list to be assessed by high-infection municipalities. In addition, the Directorate for Health is entrusted with several tasks, for example: to assess measures to protect people in risk groups and to protect vulnerable groups in society. The measures are targeted at situations where we see the infection happening. In addition, I would like to stress what I started with: in the coming weeks, everyone has to stay at home as much as possible and limit social contact with other people. I will now go a little deeper through some of the new measures. We are introducing measures to limit imports and changes in quarantine legislation. Infections involving persons crossing the border into Norway constitute a significant burden on municipalities and have led to several major outbreaks. The control mechanisms and rules we have had for travellers to and from Norway worked when the infection in Europe was at a lower level. Increased infection in the countries with which we have a lot of contact has given rise to a need to tighten up. Last week we tightened up as mentioned for work travellers. The government is now further tightening up the entry code. The requirement for a certificate to carry out tests is similar to the one they have in Denmark. We introduce it to all travellers from countries that we categorize as red. With us, it comes in addition to the requirement of quarantine for the first ten days in the country. This requirement shall not apply to the Nordics or persons residing in Norway. Some exemptions from the requirement for negative testing are granted, including: for persons regularly arriving in Norway from Sweden for work and for personnel in critical social functions necessary to avoid danger to life and health. The requirement to stay at a quarantine hotel will apply to anyone who comes here without having a stay in Norway or who does not have a job or employer in Norway who can provide an appropriate place of residence. This is an intrusion that will affect both tourists, visitors and workers. The change of rules means that a grandmother or another relative may still come to visit, but the first period in the country must remain at a hotel. This assessment is based on the fact that private homes are not a suitable place of quarantine for guests from high levels of infection. Mandatory testing on arrival in Norway has been discussed. It will be a very resource-intensive measure. There is a question of whether the measure provides sufficient added value to defend the current use of scarce human resources. Mandatory testing could potentially weaken the TISK work by shifting resources to testing at border stations. Experience from Iceland also shows that many infected people enter the country despite testing on arrival, because the test only gives a snapshot. For workers who may use exceptions in the covid-19 regulation to work during quarantine, regular testing is already required, which the employer or contracting entity is responsible for both organising and financing. In order to ensure compliance with the rules on entry quarantine, it is important that all travellers are given appropriate information in their respective languages. The Health Directorate will therefore ensure that the information provided to travellers arriving in Norway is sufficiently known and that it is good. If we are to stop the infection and facilitate the work of tracking infection, we must now reduce the number of people we meet. It is about keeping at home as much as possible and limiting mobility and social contact. We also reintroduce the National Council to avoid unnecessary travel in Norway. It also applies to work trips which are not considered necessary. Journeys to recreational properties that can be carried out without contact with others can still be carried out. Last week we tightened the boundaries of events. Now there is a limit of up to 50 people for private gatherings in public places and rented premises. For other indoor events, such as: Sports competitions and cultural events are currently 200 persons. So we're going to tighten it up a little bit further. Several outbreaks are linked to major indoor events, in particular private gatherings. There should continue to be stricter regulation of private gatherings, where the form of conversation is more dense than at other events. So we set a limit of 20 people for private gatherings in public places and rented premises. We also impose a maximum limit of 50 people at indoor events that do not all sit in fixed seats. This means, for example: that you can normally attend 50 seminars, religious gatherings, wedding ceremonies and funerals where there are no fixed seats – benches are not fixed seats – and sports events in indoors. Should a group of more than 50 persons be present at such events, fixed seats must be provided. Then the limit for the number of participants is still 200. At midnight, the rule was until October 13. The measure was replaced by a call for municipalities to assess the need for local action. Oslo and other high-infection municipalities have imposed local restriction. The Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute are now recommending the reintroduction of national tipping stops at midnight. It is necessary in the light of the new situation with a worrying growth in the infectious pressure. We have several examples that collections of people combined with alcohol, including in food establishments, have caused several major infections. And workers in the food industry are the most frequently detected profession, as well as health professionals and taxi drivers. Some claim that early tipping will lead to more private parties. The answer to that is: Now it must be the end of the parties for a period of time. We have to reduce social meeting places, both at home and in the outdoors. Early tipping will reduce access to alcohol and thus places where people can meet in an intoxicated state. We're also introducing a national rule that won't allow new guests to enter after noon. 22nd@item: inlistbox So there will be fewer going from place to place late in the evening. The level of infection in parts of the country is so serious that in the future the police will be more aware of the consequences of infringements of the rules on the protection of infection. The police will actively use the means they have. Police will now also use more resources to follow up on infectious diseases. Nevertheless, serious crime will be a priority. The police will also enforce violations of assembly rules. We also expect municipalities to strengthen the supervision of infectious diseases. In the 2021 budget, we are proposing 321 million. kr to the municipalities of the framework grant of posts related to the monitoring of compliance with the rules on events, catering facilities and workers. In all countries, including Norway, there are, to a large extent, the oldest and those with chronic diseases that are most likely to be serious. Outbreaks in hospitals and other health services appear to spread rapidly. With increasing infection rates, it is necessary to protect these groups by introducing additional measures. These measures concern both relatives and visitors in the form of access restrictions and measures aimed at staff to reduce the risk of dissemination. Unfortunately, we see that infection is increasing in younger age groups. As I said, the government will give priority to protecting children and young people. We did that when we reopened society. We still do that when we tighten up. However, an increased level of risk suggests that measures are necessary also for young people to stop the infection. The government has established a traffic lighting system for schools and kindergartens. This is incorporated into the sector, and most of them are now on a yellow level. In order to control the growth of infection, we need to ensure that schools comply with the yellow level of action. The overall objective at yellow level is that students and employees have a limited number of contacts and that they are kept under review. In areas with a high risk of infection, we now recommend that the secondary schools move to a red level, and secondary schools should prepare to move to a red level. We will also review the guidelines for the protection of public transport infection and make intensifications. It is particularly important in school buses, where young people have to feel that there is a connection between what they meet at school and what they meet on the school bus. This must include, inter alia: See if students can start school at different times in order to reduce the pressure. The most important thing we do to protect vulnerable groups is to reduce the spread of infection. If we can keep control, the children can still go to kindergarten and school, the health care provider is there when it knocks on the door, the nurse at the hospital can get a visit, and addicts can get treatment. We should not forget that the disease prevention measures also have a negative impact on vulnerable groups and can contribute to more solitude. That's why, through the pandemic, we've been working on measures to reduce the negative consequences. It ranges from maintaining treatment provision in mental health and drug treatment when much else is closed or put at risk, to funding through the Dam Foundation, so that volunteers can work in new ways to reach lonely and vulnerable people. The risk of exclusion and solitude is greater when people cannot meet, and we need to consider good measures that can counteract this. The government has set up its own working group to support the provision of services to children and young people. The Minister of Health and Health has given clear signals and indications that personnel should not be re-disposed to work on testing and tracing infection. This is still important. The Government now entrusts the Health Directorate with the task of updating all relevant professional advice on health and care services. They shall draw up guidelines and guidance material ensuring predictability, access to and individual planning of necessary services for home-dwelling recipients and their dependants. More stringent national measures are now necessary. At the same time, we must continue to recommend to municipalities the introduction of reinforced local measures where necessary. There is also a need to clear and coordinate measures in municipalities in the same region. The development of infectious diseases is particularly worrying in urban areas around Oslo and Bergen. The spread of infectious diseases is becoming regionally established due to high mobility from these cities to neighbouring municipalities. The Health Directorate considers that these areas are approaching scenario 2(a) of the Government's contingency plan. This is justified by the fact that the TISK work is under pressure. This means that one has passed l b, where one has control of clusters, and now is in a situation with only partial control. In these areas, vigorous action is now needed to return to a lower level. Nearby municipalities must also act now, and not wait until the infection spreads. Because it will. We've learned a lot since the coronary apathy seriously came upon us in March. Based on the experience we have gained, and the development we see in Europe, everything speaks to put in place measures as early as possible to slow down and stop escalating developments. The measures shall be targeted as closely as possible at the time of transmission, while at the same time limiting mobility and social contact in general. In outbreak areas with high infection rates, the government recommends that municipalities assess concrete measures for the next 15–30 days. These measures are covered by a separate circular from the Ministry of Health and Welfare of the municipalities. If the infection situation is very serious, it may, for example: be relevant to the full shut-down of training centres, sports halls, swimming pools, museums, libraries, event venues without fixed seats and other public places where many meet indoors. The Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute believe that in high-pressure municipalities it may be necessary to stop fighting, Cups and clubs for children and young people in sports with close contact and to stop wide-ranging contact with adults. It will also reduce overall mobility and reduce the risk of infection. In these areas, we now recommend two meters away from indoor physical activity. We hope that the measures taken by the government last week, and the additional measures I have mentioned now, can reduce the spread of the virus together, and that we can thus maintain control. In addition, the reinforced measures adopted locally where outbreaks occur. We want to know more about the impact of the measures in place over the next 14 days. Unfortunately, we cannot exclude that the infection finds new ways and increases further. Both here at home and outside, we see that the situation is changing rapidly. Several countries have tried to tighten up, but have ended up shutting down. The government, together with the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute, has therefore started to prepare for further tightening if necessary to avoid the collapse of our health services. Most of the measures will then be implemented at national level, in order to avoid a national crisis situation. Around us, land by land is shut down. Fill up the hospitals. More people die. More people lose their jobs. Businesses are going bankrupt. Without doing anything, this will also happen here. We therefore have to act, and I therefore have an urgent call to the Norwegian people for the coming weeks: Be at home as much as possible. Go for a walk. But limit social contact with people outside your own household as much as possible. In this way, we can keep schools open for our children and as much as possible at work, while not giving the virus the opportunity to spread from human to human. I know that this means disadvantages for many. We have to cancel a lot of things we would like to have done. Every day is going to be more heavy for business. Some companies will experience that the customer base is being lost once more. But remember, we do this for each other — to avoid serious illness and death among people at risk, to avoid loss of jobs if we lose control and Norway has to be shut down again, and to avoid getting back to where we were in March. What we're all going to do the next few weeks towards Christmas, we do in solidarity with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e228	The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open a brief comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group, and final statements from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e233	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the distribution. The life and health of people is the most important thing, and when infection increases, of course, new measures for the protection of infection are also necessary. The government has access to the unfiltered professional councils of the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute and therefore also asks for the responsibility for correctly dimensioning the measures. We in the Labour Party have argued that careful consideration has been given to whether the measures currently put forward are necessary and proportionate to the need. It is also true that the size is being informed. It has been asked by the Labour Party, for it is about significant and, at the same time, intervention that has been introduced, partly based on policy assessments. Then it is natural that the government has close contact with Stortinget. There is a lot of the infected image that you cannot see. All political parties must respect that. Some adjustments must be made by the government while things are still in development – this is the only way. But also political Norway has to learn, because coronary infection is no longer a new situation. He has stayed from March to now, and he seems to want to be for many more months. The working party will pay particular attention to three lessons, which we will ask the government to include: Firstly, infectious diseases and financial measures must go hand in hand. The financial measures that were put forward shortly after the first tightening in March were not in the vicinity of meeting people's security needs. The next package(s) were delayed. Travel has only recently received some necessary clarifications, and only now could we read in the media that the income insurance schemes for the unemployed should be extended to 31 March. We all need to be humble in order for the situation to be demanding, and that it may be difficult to keep up with developments or to be sufficiently careful. But already in March, a new infection peak was predicted for the fall, and now it happens. It is reasonable to expect that the health and economic crisis response is now better coordinated. The working party will at least contribute to the best possible delivery of life, health and jobs in this difficult time. Secondly, we have now learned that there are many people who do not follow quarantine rules and infectious diseases councils. We must continue to be clear that these rules are also of solidarity with those who are most vulnerable to infection, but we must also introduce additional insurance where possible. It is particularly important now that we know that imports are increasing and have increased through October. It is good to have requirements for testing when entering the borders and aerodromes. The batch will have mandatory testing at the border. We also mean that we can not just leave it to the municipalities to be responsible for it. The state must take responsibility for that. If the municipality of Ullensaker, as one example, is to take responsibility for the Gardermo with the new rules proposed by the government, it goes without saying that it will attract a lot of the resources to the municipality. It will be able to go out on the dormitory and other important services. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate, the police and others who will contribute to compliance need not only to be responsible for it but also to have the resources to do so. It's about protecting and preventing, so that vulnerable groups don't become frames, so that our health care system doesn't get overburdened, and so that we can as far as possible avoid a long-term shut-down with great consequences for health and the economy. It's related to the third: we know that the pandemic reinforces the second, underlying problem. This is particularly true of the increasing social and economic differences in our country. The most economically difficult framework is one of the lowest paid, the lowest paid, the lowest paid, the lowest paid, the lowest paid, the lowest paid. The healthiest frames can be any one of us. There may be kids who need to be home and miss a friend's game There may be women who must be home with a chosen party. Older people may be forced to isolate themselves. For the Workers' Party, it is important that no one should sit alone with heavy thoughts, that no young people should be left to themselves, and that no one should be allowed to die alone because the pandemic shut them down. This must be set of means to follow up. Isolation is a very high price to pay for a society and can have long-lasting consequences. In a few years' time, we can count on the economic costs of the pandemic and the measures of infection, but the human costs cannot be counted in dollars and cents, and we ask for equal responsibility for human beings in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e258	Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to the government for a clear message. Now it's serious. Now we all have to contribute. Now we have to fight the infection back. It has been – and it is done – a formidable job every day. Health professionals are at the forefront of helping those who get sick. The infectious tracking teams we've got across the country are nitite and targeted. They're making an amazing effort. Teachers, bus drivers, volunteers, people in sport and culture – all should have a great deal of thanks for helping our children to keep up their courage and to keep up with what they are happy about. Thanks also to all the Northmen who take covid-19 seriously. I drive a car from Drammen every day when I go into Stortinget – an electric car – and I see that the reminders are useful. Today, there was no hint of E18 queues. It's the first time I've experienced since March. I think people are leading were, know that it's now tightening, and taking this seriously. That's good. At the store, more and more people wear mouthbands, and we see that people take the advice seriously. Then there are a few that may not have been as good, and we also have to bring them. But most people follow the advice, and now everyone has to follow the advice. Social action has to go back to Teams and FaceTime, even if we're getting a little tired of it – but it's important. Home offices are needed for a period of time, and we all need to help get control. I think the government has balanced the measures well. We have learned a lot since March, and I also think that the measures that are now being proposed reflect. Stricter measures and financial measures to compensate for the need to go hand in hand. It was Hadia Tajik inside, and I think the government will also follow it up because we now also know more about the effects it has when we go to different measures. The right will, of course, give its full support to the measures and hope that the Storting can also continue its work quickly, efficiently and collectively in order to bring this crisis under control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e271	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the presentation. Let me first say that the message the Prime Minister came with today was very clear and not to be misunderstood, unlike last week, as I think very many thought it was confusing advice and recommendations presented by the government. And that's really my first main point: it's unusually important with clear communication that is sustainable and not possible to misunderstand, when you encourage all citizens to follow very interventional measures. I am pleased that the government has finally seen the need for clearer measures to limit the import contamination. As early as August, we proposed mandatory testing at borders and have been able to do it on its own until now. I now register that the Workers' Party also believes that this is a wise measure. But I have trouble understanding the argument that this is going to be resource-intensive. I understand that it is resource-intensive, but we have personnel groups that it could be possible to deploy if that is how you really want to limit the import infection to Norway, and I want to challenge the government on it. I think it's strange that you can't be even clearer when it comes to implementing measures that we know will help limit the infection to Norway. All these interventional measures have considerable costs for our society. More and more people are experiencing mental health challenges. The question is also whether this does not start to put increasing pressure on family life, with increased divorces, community break-ups, etc. In the case of elderly people living in nursing homes, we know from the statistics that the average number of people living in nursing homes is now two years. Now many of the residents have been close to isolation in almost one of these years. I think there's reason to worry that you probably spend your last years of life in total isolation. I think that's a problem. There is also a challenge related to the management of other somatic diseases, which unfortunately can lead to increased mortality due to the decline of resources in the country’s hospitals. Then, of course, it's all the consequences this has for jobs and businesses. The government's remedial measures or compensation schemes have not been sufficient, and the government has been on the back all the way since March. It's understandable that it was like this in the beginning, but now you've had plenty of time to prepare for these things and good time to have a dialogue with different industries that are affected by this. I think many people still experience that the measures do not take those who are affected, and that for this reason you risk companies going out of business, and that people lose their jobs unnecessarily. I now expect that the government with the package of measures they have announced has taken on board the challenges that very many industries and businesses now face, and that we will see it again in the measures coming to the Stortinget. But be safe: the party of progress, and certainly the rest of the Stortinget, is now also ready to reinforce the measures that the government comes with, if they do not prove to be sufficient. In conclusion, the management of all the infectious and invasive measures has been and is the responsibility of the government, and of course there is a high level of government responsibility in such a context. Then it's about being open about the professional advice you lean on, and you clearly explain why, in that case, you don't choose to follow the professional advice that comes from the health authorities at all times. There has been a lot of unrest and discussion in the Norwegian community, but transparency will anyway be important in a situation where the government is responsible for this, and wants to be responsible for this, without involving the Storting in the decisions taken. When there are so clear calls from the country's prime minister as we have heard today, I agree that it is important that each of us follow those advices and contribute to the reduction of the infection. It should be possible and affordable for most, but there is every reason to worry about the consequences and the costs this has for individuals in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e290	I would like to thank you for your statement. There are a lot of things that have gathered us in the last few months, and all the parties have basically been behind the job that Norwegian health authorities have done. But I think that's reason to say, as several other parties have also stressed here today, that it's not the virtue of the Great Britain, it's the government's responsibility, what is now being undertaken by measures. At the beginning of this pandemic, the Centre Party had some particular concerns related to health care in Norway, and we have also addressed the issue of the situation of the elderly and disabled who, due to the corona rules, have lived in isolation for too long. We share the assessment with the government that the situation is now serious and that there is a need to be more stringent for a period to prevent a new, large wave of infection. Then we think it is important that the measures are transparent and easy to deal with, because if the measures become complicated, they are difficult to comply with, and then we also weaken the legitimacy of the measures. Let me mention a few moments in what the Prime Minister was concerned about. In contrast to what we saw in our individual cases, in a new situation we have to make sure that no one risks dying alone, whether in a hospital or in a hospital. With regard to both hospital and hospital capacity, the State must also contribute to strengthening and securing that capacity. We still have a low intensive capacity in Norway, compared with other OECD countries. I experience the Prime Minister so that she says that the solution is testing and infection tracking. There is also a need for the state to step in and help the different municipalities. The centre lot agrees with those who have said that the import centre needs to be reduced and that mandatory cross-border testing is now necessary, in addition to reduced cross-country travel. With the strong measures that one now wants to take, the economy will again become important, and in terms of economics and jobs, the picture of national efforts has become much more unclear over time. The government has chosen to move away from the broad and large solutions of the Storting and has chosen to join forces with the Advance Party. This means that we are in a situation where we now have strong, interventional measures on the health side that will also have major ring-fenced effects on the economy. In such a situation, the government continues to hold on by, for example: A passenger charge shall be reintroduced, the travel VAT shall be doubled, in which case it will be much harder than a thought one month or two back. The centre party fears that we have to blame ourselves for the fact that the Corona situation is going to be with us at least until the summer of 2021, and with more stringent measures to fight a lot of infection, we are concerned about jobs, business and the economy. We believe that it is no longer in keeping with clumsy and unbridled crisis measures and crisis packages. What Norway needs now is a contingency plan for the next year for businesses and jobs, a contingency plan that lasts over time and provides predictability. Now we have to provide the necessary long-termity for business as well. We feel that the government is now almost hesitating from month to month, and that people who depend on measures to get through the crisis must wait and wait. So it's 'too little, too late'. Many industries suffer from it today, and they will also feel strongly if these measures are implemented. The centre party agrees that we now need stronger measures for a period of time, and we agree that this is necessary to prevent a new, large wave of infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e318	Let me start by saying that I share the seriousness that the Prime Minister conveys, and we want to put behind the call for people to follow all the new measures. There is also a very clear act of solidarity in it, because, as with so much else in our society, the infected is also socially skeptical. It is only possible to look at the list of occupational groups hit hardest by the infection in the fall: bartenders, waiters, café and street kitchen workers, flight hosts, boatmasters, taxi drivers, hotel receptionists, hairdressers, personal trainers, kindergarten assistants, train instructors. Workers are the hardest hit, and following them is an act of solidarity with people in the most vulnerable professions. There are a lot of people in this country who have to meet physically at work to get society to go around. Drocers cannot be run in Zoom, food cannot be served on Teams. Workers are the most vulnerable. Workers — and many of the same groups of professionals — are also the most affected by the economic downturn. I would also like to highlight very clearly the need for the government to act quickly on new and targeted crisis measures. With regard to the social and economic consequences of the situation we're in, we've seen too many times over these months that the government has acted too late and lack of action. A good example is the extension of the social measures for the unemployed, which luckily came, but which should have been clarified earlier. We have hard hit industries that now need an outstretched hand. The challenges of travel are well-known, but absenteeism lacks action. 80 pst. employees of lighting, sound and stage production are permissive but are excluded from the emergency measures. Local authorities now need help to ensure that there are enough people where there is a need, that there are resources to take action for all the children who miss education because of increased absence, and that there is effort for isolated elderly people. A mental health crisis package and a plan are needed to tackle solitude, which is also a major mental challenge in this situation. There is little going on in our municipalities and in our hospitals. We need action to address the social and economic problems that this creates. Then it is very important to keep schools and kindergartens open and to be able to keep children's leisure activities and sports going. We in Stortingen cannot do so much more than encourage people to follow the measures taken by the government. This means that on the SV side, we will not go in and decide on each of the actions, as Stortinget is not invited to do so. That responsibility must be taken by the government alone, as the government also insists on doing so alone. It places very clear responsibility for this at the government. We believe that it would have been wiser in this situation to share power. This could have been done by amending the law, so that the most interventional measures are dealt with here in the Stortingen, but it could also have been done on the government's own initiative. We now see in Europe that in many countries, the national Parliament is dealing with the most interventional measures. We think it's wise, because it's part of ensuring legitimacy, it's part of ensuring good spirit and cohesion in a difficult time for the country. And as it's fixed many times now, it's possible to do it without a big law audit. The government could do it itself, or the Storting could implement a small legislative change that could be made quickly and have no impact on the power of action. We must all now follow the measures. We encourage the government to come quickly with social and economic measures in the wake of this, and I would also encourage the government to think again about whether it is not wise now to share more power in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e335	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a thorough, secure briefing. There is no doubt that the government is very close to the pandemic, with infectious and health measures, with social and nutritional measures. So, no matter what measures the government has taken, whether it's in charge of municipal decisions, government or the Storing, we're totally dependent on each of us taking responsibility – for ourselves, for our own family, for the community circle – being good role models and keeping distance, limiting social and travel activity to a minimum, and continuing to be the purest version of ourselves ever: We wash our hands as often as we can, using alcohol when it's not possible to wash, and using mouthbands where it's necessary. Now it's serious. If we are to avoid a new shut-down at the level of what we had in ours, we must jointly close down by limiting the spread of infection. The developments in Norway until now suggest that we are able to do so, for there is one word that best describes what politicians have met through the Korona era – from businesses, entrepreneurs, self-employed, freelancers, organizations, sports teams, workers, public additions, very common people – is the word ‘impressive’. The way we as society, as a community, have set each other up – showing patience, solidarity, acceptance and compliance with the restrictions – shows something of the quality of Norway and Norwegian democracy. It's in times of crisis that we're all new to a society where the trust between the government and the people is as great as in Norway, where we're so well organized and not least have access to resources few other countries are in the vicinity of. Nevertheless, we know that the time since March 13 has been very demanding for most and extremely difficult for many. Before we in the Storting can finally thank everyone for the effort and tolerance, we must again ask for a renewed understanding, a renewed patience and a renewed effort to get through the pandemic with least possible tragic outcomes – in solidarity with those of us who do not have the same good intentions to deal with being infected, with a hard-hitting business, our workplaces, with cultural, art and eventmakers who live in great uncertainty, and not least in solidarity with a community and cohesion we all are so happy and happy about – and depending on when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e350	The Prime Minister's statement shows the seriousness of the situation. The disease is increasing, and there is a need for tougher measures. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation, for her clarity and for being open to the Stortinget and the Norwegian people. That's good leadership. The measures taken are rigorous. They are intrusive, but at the same time absolutely necessary. We have to put life and health first. Life and health first has been the first priority of this government all the way. We must not risk life and health. The intrusions shall ensure that life is not lost. This is the case: that the least possible is getting sick, and that we do not lose control. It is not least about taking care of those of us who are in a very vulnerable situation. We have a common responsibility, and I am pleased that the government is taking this responsibility. However, Norway is in a lucky situation because we have resources and political will to take action. But the most important thing is the trust we have in each other – the confidence that we can stand together in the fight against the spread of the virus. I would also like to stress this time, as I have done before, the importance of what the Prime Minister said to the Norwegian people in his speech on March 18th this year: "This has given our country a greater advantage than any weapon and more valuable than any oil fund: that we trust each other." That's very well said. We live in a trust society in this great country up here in the north. Let's hang about it even when there's a crisis – yes, especially then, I would say. We all understand that many are tired now, and I am concerned about the many who are struggling in these times. There's a lot of people who have a hard time. I am thinking in particular of children and young people who know about insecurity and instability, who experience solitude, and who cannot unfold as they should and wish. I think of the elderly and all who are related to the sick and the old, all who cannot have the social intercourse they should have – the solitude that comes creeping and snapping. All the restrictions and measures are priced. They can have a high price. Although it's absolutely necessary to tighten up now, we also have to remember the human aspects of this situation, the psychological stress. I hope we never again get into a situation where relatives cannot visit their elderly people in nursing homes, where kindergartens and schools are shut down. We need long-term and continuous efforts from the authorities to help those who need the most in this particular situation — children and young people who are struggling, elderly and sick. That is why we also need measures to help them. We all want to get back to a normal situation as soon as possible, but then we unfortunately also have to accept that it needs to be tightened up. Now it's more important than ever to be aware of each other in this situation. Now is the time to see each other, fight loneliness, promise and help vulnerable groups. It'll be very important in the time ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e372	Thanks for the presentation in a very serious situation, and thanks also to everyone who helps prevent infection, including the government and health authorities. There's a lot that can be said in such a situation. We're all hit in different ways. I want to record two themes. The Prime Minister said clearly that people now have to stay at home. So we're working on a bomb to prevent a viral epidemic, a pandemic. But how do we manage to prevent infectious diseases from leading to an epidemic of mental health disorders? The groups that we should view as vulnerable, I'm afraid of growing more and more. Four weeks ago, we marked the World Day for Mental Health. From the outset, we know that young people, adults and the elderly are the most plagued with mental illness in Norway. According to Red Cross, 45 pst. of young people between 16 and 24 years of age alone under the pandemic. A group that is often considered resource-intensive and privileged, but is also increasingly a vulnerable group, are students. The mental health of students has had a negative development for ten years. The Koron restrictions have made the student everyday even more demanding, with digital education and few meeting places. A study from the Public Health Institute before the pandemic showed that one in three students was lonely. A health study conducted by Tekna in June this year among its students is very alarming. 49 pst. struggles to be involved in the studies. 57 pst. Stress is experienced in study everyday life to a large or very large extent. 45 pst. have felt depressed to a large or very high degree. In total, this increases the risk of multiple mental disorders among young adults, more unable to continue the studies, more unable to learn, and remaining in debt, with no benefit from knowledge and the qualifications they have taken up to obtain. At the beginning of October, the Ministry of Knowledge asked universities and colleges across the country to give feedback on how the pandemic has affected them in different ways. The newspaper Khrono, which covers higher education and research, gained insight into many of the answers and reports that a number of them address the mental health of students and a poor learning environment as one of the main consequences for students. Ensuring good mental health is not only about more money for health services, which the Prime Minister was in, but also about thinking carefully about what offers you open up again, and highlighting the needs of young people when introducing new measures. As chief psychologist in Together Psychiatric Health in Bergen, Øystein Sandven, said: ‘Psychiatric health is not created in healthcare, but where lives are lived.’ I am therefore left with questions after the Prime Minister's statement about what the government is doing to prevent a wave of mental distress now, to the extent that in the whole population, but especially in the young adults, the students. What does the government recommend to this group to be able to meet, especially for those who are new in a city and have no network, and to be able to continue learning in such a special situation as we are in? In addition, the same group is unfortunately also very disadvantaged if they have lost their job, or if they have managed to train and were fully trained for the autumn and are left and have no job to go to in a labour market that is completely stationary. I also wonder whether we can wait for more measures from the government to students who are currently without the right to a daily allowance, or for other schemes that ensure their income in the same way as other employees. The second theme I want to address is about the municipalities. The Prime Minister himself stated that the control of infection in many municipalities is under pressure. At the same time, many municipalities have an increasingly under pressure economy because of the measures taken to protect their infection, and so far the big picture is that even though the municipalities are totally compensated for the corona expenditure, the distribution is very distorted. The most badly affected municipalities spend more money than they get compensated for, and at the same time we know that this goes beyond services – resources for basic health such as nursing homes, kindergartens, child protection and midwives. The list is long. The government wants to be able to support all the municipalities no matter how much infection they have had, because everyone has to have a basic preparedness. This may be a good assessment, but it does not change the fact that Stortinget has decided that municipalities should be compensated for their real losses as a result of the corona. There is also something the government has promised, so I want to clarify whether the Prime Minister agrees that the municipalities will individually be compensated for the real costs and losses of income they have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e395	There is reason to be concerned when the infection again increases in society. We have a responsibility both to prevent the spread of infection and to ensure that our welfare services work well for everyone, especially those who need it most. Health care has been neglected over a long period of time, and there has been insufficient response to the long-awareness of the shortage of nurses and health professionals. In the spring several health care professionals working with children and young people were assigned to carry out infection tracking. Then we saw that school and health care concerns were falling in number. This underlines the importance of having a good basic staff with full and permanent posts, both in hospitals and in municipal welfare. It is important to ensure that well-being workers can continue to do their job while ensuring their testing capacity. Red jobs for common well-being for all, strong enough to meet a crisis without affecting the needs of those who are already exposed, which is happening in Norway during this crisis. The patchwork of different advice and rules, local and national, is becoming fairly extensive. Last week the government had to have an extra press conference to explain the pedagogical in this. In order to be effective, the level of familiarisation and follow-up of the infectious agents must be as high as possible. In any case, it is good for the government to ensure that the disease prevention measures are clear, accessible and understandable to all of us. Then there are some professional groups that are more susceptible to infection, including: because they meet more people in connection with work. The Public Health Institute has produced an overview of this. Everyone must be guaranteed the safest working day as possible, both at work and on a journey to and from work. What should the government do to ensure that people who cannot have a home office can have as safe a working day as possible, and will the government consider that the public now ensures that everyone who is dependent on taking a bus, train, tram or path to work is given access to a mouthband? We want an answer to that. It is in times of crisis that democracy is really put to the test, and it is good that the government is now coming to the Stortinge to anchor crisis management. When the government tried to give itself unnecessary extended powers in March with the Korona Act, Red was the first batch to call against it. We cannot accept that the Storting and the People's Government are placed on the sideline, either then or now. The next government should do now, is give the Storting a new crisis package for treatment, because still almost 200,000 people are totally or partially unemployed. In the first package we received for treatment in Stortinget, the government tried to send the bill to workers who were on leave. It corrected the bulk of the population in cash. This week the government made the cut right in the day money from New Year's Eve. Like so many other measures for the unemployed, this came after a lot of pressure, and it also came in the last second. I wonder if the government is thinking about what unforeseeableness and insecurity this creates for all the unemployed and their families. Some people still hit very hard are the long-term unemployed. They have not been taken part in the increase in the daily allowance that others have received. Due to covid-19, the daily allowance period was extended for those on the AAP, unemployed and on leave who were about to expire on a maximum of daily pay. Sunday was the end of this. Now people will fall out of the paycheck in thousands. It could be about 8,000 people this and next month. Next year we might be talking about 18 500. It's about twice as many as usual, and there aren't many new jobs ready to wait for these people. The government is also fully aware of this. These people who are now falling out of the daycare system will next summer have no particular money to pay their bills with, because the government has removed the holiday supplement from the daycare allowance. And when the government at the same time is $13 million. kr to Kurt Nilsen and Jan Fredrik Karlsen, it is time to make sure that the long-term unemployed do not lose the safety net and end up on a bar. They must also receive an income hedge. We believe that the government must come to Stortinget and straighten it up, and that is a priority for us in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e412	Let me comment on some of the comments that have been, and some of the questions or issues that have been raised. Let me first take the opportunity from Stortinget's pulpit to comment on some twitter messages. I see that someone thinks it's illogical that we ask people to be home, and at the same time, the alcohol service shuts down at noon. 24th@item: inlistbox We believe that we are still going to have things that work in this country, with a lot of infection, but each of us has to make sure that we put maximum restrictions on what is not perceived to be absolutely necessary and absolutely essential that we do the next few weeks. That doesn't mean we're shutting everything down now, but there's a context in what we're doing, and the main challenge is: think about whether you actually have to do things that make you too much in contact with others. In any case, you must comply with strict rules for the protection of infection. Let me start with the statement that last week it was hard to understand the advice. I recorded that there was a debate among some politicians and journalists. I want to remind you that the verdict is out. The polls show that most people understood the rules and did not see them as difficult – that there was more excitement about the measures and greater clarity, and that people understood what we had proposed. We saw that through the measurements that were made over the week. Then there are some themes that have gone on again. One of them is mandatory testing. Our background for not proposing mandatory testing is the professional recommendations we get to use resources in the monnet we need on the frontier, that we should do that, is the wrong priority of use to combat the infection now. That doesn't mean that in four weeks, three weeks, there can't be any other way, if we have speed tests and spit testers that can be done in another way, but we're not there yet. That's why we follow the recommendations on how we use our resources as best we can, and I think that's actually an important professional advice to follow. Now that we're making demands for testing in the last 72 hours before you get to Norway – and if you don't have a test, you don't get in, it's important to say, that then it's a basis for rejection – because we see a completely different form of infection in the countries around us, and we have stronger demands. But remember, the main requirement in Norway is quarantine, not testing. In some places, testing may have been perceived as testing away from being in quarantine. In Norway, quarantine is the answer. That is why we are operating with stricter rules than many other countries in this particular area. In the case of intensive capacity, it is estimated that, as an exceptional measure, 1 200 intensive sites and an increase of 4 500 in ordinary hospital bed capacity are planned. The plans are there, the preparations are there, there is more training given, but our challenge, of course, is that there is a restriction on human resources. Then we have to give priority to where we put the human resources in such a situation. That is why we also need to use professional groups other than those that are most qualified, for some things, for example. for the detection of infection. Yes, health care professionals are trained and actually trained to detect infection, but there will be more important jobs for them to do in following up vulnerable groups than putting them into infection tracking. That's why we're clear that you can use other groups for that work. So it's quite obvious that the state has to help the municipalities with part of this work. That's why we have our own infection tracking team that helps with that. But it's like we're on the gap in some places because people meet too many people. When you have come in close contact with up to 200 people in 48 hours, it goes without saying that it is very demanding. It is also to keep the capacity for infection tracking that we are encouraging much less social contact at the moment. I agree that mental health is extremely important to take care of. This was a priority. That's why we see that the waiting time in mental health has continued to go a little below the pandemic, because it was very clear and clearly priority to maintain this. We're still going to be busy with that. It also applies to students. I am the mother of two myself and know well what the situation is for them at the moment. The Minister of Research and Higher Education has been clearly in contact, and there is now work between the university and higher education sectors to find out the best measures to ensure that people are caught, and to do things that are contagiously correct, but which nevertheless allow one to come back and ensure that the consequences are not excessive. I have not answered all the financial questions. I think that we have many opportunities to debate, but I just want to inform you that we had planned for our own extraordinary proposition in the supplementary proposition tomorrow. We have postponed it until Tuesday, and we will meet the deadline for Stortingen to deliver, precisely because the new measures require us to make some adjustments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e435	The debate on the presentation ended. The President will propose that the statement by the Prime Minister on the handling of the coronary apathy be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Financial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e467	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e474	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in connection with the letter from the Norwegian Bank's representative on the addition of new daily ladders of NBIM. It is the first time that the representative has sent a briefing to the Stortinget in the middle of the year. They also supervise Norway’s Bank on behalf of the Stortinget and therefore on behalf of the Norwegian people. When they then chose to report on relationships with the addition of the new daily leader of NBIM, there was every reason to take it seriously from the Stortinge's side. In particular, they reported three facts that they saw as unsolved at the time: that the ownership interests of the new daily manager of NBIM should not become a tax for SPU or Norway Bank that fiscal conditions should be in line with SPU and Norway’s position and be marked by full openness; that the addition should be governed by the same law as that applicable to all additions to Norway Bank; The Financial Committee called for a hearing on the report in August, and the hearing concluded that this and several aspects were not satisfactory between the Bureau and the Board of Governors of Norway. The Financial Committee has noted that the responsibilities between Stortinget and Norway Bank require the Stortinget neither to appoint nor to appoint the daily manager of NBIM, but we naturally take sufficient position on the assessments of the representativeness – they are accommodating by us, they report to us, and they have the task of ensuring that the operation of Norway Bank is in line with current legislation. The Financial Committee then reached the following conclusions in agreement: that the manager of NBIM cannot have a ownership or interest that creates, or may appear to create, conflicts of interest that are capable of weakening the trust and rejuvenating to Norway Bank, in accordance with its own ethical principle of adding: that the manager of NBIM cannot have ownership or interests that weaken, or may weaken, SPU's work on tax and openness, and that these conditions must be clarified before the accession of the new manager of NBIM; In the further work, it is natural to assume that this is supervised by the representative body in the normal manner. A co-ordinated finance committee has also suggested that the government look closer to the provisions of Paragraphs 1 to 6 of the Central Bank Act and that it should be clarified. In any case, this has shown a certain disparity between the expectations of the Norwegian Bank about what they should be informed about, and the expectations that can lie with government and big business. The Committee has also pointed out that the limitation of paragraphs 1 to 6 on ‘cases of importance’ to dealing solely with monetary policy issues would appear to be contrary to the wording of a paragraph which is entirely general in design and which is contained in the chapter on general principles. So we're assuming that the government follows this in its own way and comes back to Stortinget with an assessment of these questions, including an assessment of whether the wording should be clarified more closely. I hope and believe that, in today's debate, the Minister of Finance will be able to do more about when and how this will happen. Now the addition of new daily leaders of NBIM is not something that happens so often, and it is likely that it will not happen again under this finance minister, but it will still be interesting to hear what lessons the finance minister drew from the process that we have now undergone, not least from the fact that in the final phase of the handling of the case we were determined by the Law Department that the finance minister at an earlier time in the matter had a greater general opportunity of instruction than what he chose to use, and greater circumstances than what he had at a later time in the handling of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e508	Let me begin by thanking the Committee for good cooperation in the matter for which I am the rapporteur. This is therefore the case with the redundancy proposal on the appointment of the Director of the Oil Fund and the reputation of the Norwegian Bank. The draft representative and the position make three proposals: ensuring that the oil fund is managed from Norway; the National Audit Board to review the role of the government in the employment case; an assessment of whether the governor has complied with his duties in the case of the appointment of the oil fund manager; All the proposals will be voted by a large majority here today. The first proposal is probably the one with which it is instinctively easiest to sympathise, namely that the oil fund should be managed from Norway. Fortunately, in practice this is already the case. For both the Governor, the Chief Governor and the Head of the Oil Fund, the preparatory work of the applicable central bank law states that there is a requirement for social understanding, i.e. knowledge of Norwegian society, rules, norms and political processes. In addition, in the recruitment process of the new oil fund manager, it was assumed that he would have his daily job at the headquarters of Oslo. This is already the way to ensure that the oil fund is managed from Norway. You don't have to legislate everything; something works without it. This is an example of that. If the Red Party and the Centre agree with the proposal that all the activities of the Oil Fund should be carried out by Norway, we disagree. The Oil Fund invests in more than 9 000 companies worldwide. A global presence is therefore a prerequisite for both better understanding and confidence in markets. I'm not very surprised that Red doesn't have the necessary understanding of these issues, but that the Center Party, which is otherwise concerned with the proximity to the services, doesn't understand this, is more surprising. It is also special that two parties who otherwise talk about the path of trust society, and that politicians should not sit in Oslo or on the Stortinget and detailed management businesses, now want to do just that, instead of having confidence in the organisation of the oil fund in the most appropriate way possible. I don't think there are 169 politicians, of whom the very few have been involved in international capital management or finance at all, who are best placed to think anything about these issues. It should be left to those who really can. It's trust, not detail control. Let me also make a few comments on the second matter we are dealing with in this debate, namely the letter from the Norwegian Bank. To begin with, we are pleased that the case ended happily, that the Tang joined as head of the oil fund, and that his ownership does not weaken the trust or reputation of the Bank of Norway or the oil fund. However, much can be said about the process before this conclusion is reached. Sometimes it seemed that the politicians were in line or, to put it bluntly, they were jumping for the media to paint black and draw conclusions before they had any facts. It's actually not unusual or speculative to own companies or have fund shares in countries like Cayman Islands, Bermuda or other countries far away. There might be good reasons for that, even. Northfund spends a lot on investment in African countries. It is because they have a well-functioning financial sector, a legal system and investment protection agreements. But the country is called a tax haven. Just as many shipping companies can be attractive to flag ships to Norway, there may be fiscal reasons for investing in other countries. It is in itself not illegal or unethical to do so. The essential thing is to pay the tax you have to pay and to report correctly and satisfactorily. There's no reason to believe that the tangent or his companies haven't. Our very main concern in this matter has been that trust in one of our most important institutions, the Bank of Norway, should not be weakened. That's why we asked the early Minister of Finance to find an amicable solution that contributed to that. Truer deserves praise for finally doing so, in what was certainly a demanding matter for him too. In the end, many have said that it has been important to eliminate risks in this case. It's probably not going to be possible, especially in this kind of case. However, minimising risks is possible. But it is not the responsibility of the Storting; it is the responsibility of the board. I am sure that the main board will carry with it in its further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e541	Under the Central Bank Act, the representative shall report to the Stortinget at least once a year. When the representative sent a letter to Stortinget on 11 June 2020 mid-year on his supervisory work related to the appointment of the new Executive Director of NBIM, this had not happened before. The opinion of the Committee has been presented by the rapporteur-general. I still have a desire to make some points and comments to illustrate what has been important to the Right in this process. Firstly, the Norwegian Bank’s supervisory board is appointed by the Stortinget. It is the task of the Board of Representatives on behalf of the Stortingen to supervise the Bank's operations. Secondly, the main board of the Bank of Norway is responsible for hiring the oil fund manager. Furthermore, the Governing Council is the executive body of the Bank and is responsible for assessing the risks and handling of these against the objectives of the activities. And it is Norway's Bank's main board that is responsible for ensuring that their business complies with laws, guidelines and rules, and that trust and reputation in the institution is respected. These have been important points for us when we have discussed the matter. It is also what forms the back cover that it has been important for the Right that the Committee's work and setting up did not remove the space for action necessary for both a Council of State and the Governing Council to have in accordance with the laws and regulations in force, and that it was not the Stortinget who was to dictate or construct the solutions. I have also registered that there have been criticisms from several teams in the debate after the case was handed over to the Council of State for not having entered the recruitment process at an earlier time. Then I would remind you that when the new Central Bank Act was passed, most parties, if not all, were very concerned about the independence of the Bank of Norway. I have noticed that some of the same politicians who are now criticizing the Council of State for not having gone into this earlier, probably, based on the strong signals that everyone was willing to give when the Central Bank Act was passed, the Council of State criticised if he had gone into the recruitment process earlier. So I think it's important to breathe with your stomach when such things occur. In fact, the Council of State itself has also pointed out to the Stortinget in a reply to the representative Hadia Tajik that there are learning points after such a process. The fact that the Council of State itself has taken the initiative to look at it is an important signal. With regard to the representative proposal from Red, I refer to the comments of the majority, but I would like to draw particular attention and refer to the Minister of Finance's reply of 23 September this year. I note that the Ministry has not become familiar with information that suggests that the government should consider whether the Governor has complied with his duties. Finally, the Bank of Norway is an important institution, and the oil fund is our common wealth. Both of these institutions have played an important role in the current crisis and will also play an important role in the future, especially in the financing of the major actions we are putting in place. I hope now that we're at a point where everyone can look forward. The matter has got a good solution. It is important that all parties contribute to and maintain the trust and reputation of the Bank of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e568	It is a major and serious matter that we now have to deal with and that the Committee has dealt with. It is a matter that unfortunately got played out for too long, which has of course contributed to a burden for those who have been directly involved, but which has not least also been a challenge to the reputation and trust both in the Bank of Norway and in the Oil Fund. Therefore, it was incredibly important that the Financial Committee should address the matter properly. I am also pleased that the Committee on Budgets agreed on a unanimous position and that a good work was done in the Committee. It is incredibly important that, in the case of the oil fund, one contributes to stability, security and tranquillity, and that one contributes to the maintenance of general confidence and a good reputation. The main board of the Norwegian Bank is responsible for the appointment of the new head of the oil fund. At the same time, it is the Minister of Finance who has overall responsibility for the Bank of Norway and to ensure that the general trust and reputation is respected. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance did not contribute to it over time, first by refusing to take responsibility in the matter, then by trying to say that the Minister of Finance had no responsibility at all in the matter, and even at some point in the committee's proceedings on short notice ordered an investigation from a private law firm to support his argument rather than go to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice. When one finally, in 12 hours, went to the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice, it turned out that the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice had a different judgment from that of both the private law firm and the Ministry of Finance. That report was a crushing judgment on the work that had been done. After hearing the comments from the committee's chairman who was just being held, I have to say that I am very uncertain about what the government party really means when one says that there is a learning point in this matter, when one does not want to take on the fact that one should have acted earlier, intervened earlier, to make sure that this matter found its solution and did not delay over so long. Is it so that if you had received a similar case at a later date, does the Right Government Party believe that it should have been handled in exactly the same passive way by the Minister of Finance? I would like to ask the Minister of Finance in his speech to clarify what kind of learning point the government and the Ministry of Finance see after this matter, especially in the light of the statement made by the chairman of the Committee. So to the management of the oil fund and to the case rapporteur for the representative proposal put on the table: if one is to follow the argument of the case rapporteur there, it seems that it is sufficient in the case of the management of the oil fund, that the oil fund manager has an address in Oslo or at least an address in Norway. Of course, it is important that the management of our common wealth is clearly anchored in Norway and that we contribute to a greater part of the administration from Norway. It is therefore important to make proposals that clearly state that the oil fund is to be managed from Norway. I'll bring up the proposal that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e579	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e584	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for both of the matters that we are dealing with here. The conclusion is known to the extent that the conditions of employment of new oil fund managers had to be changed. The Committee has agreed that the oil fund manager cannot have ownership or conflicts of interest that are suitable for weakening the trust and reputation of the Bank of Norway, as the Bank’s own ethical rules also state. The Committee also notes that the chairman of the oil fund cannot have ownership or interests that weaken or could weaken the work of the oil fund on taxation and transparency. Actually, this should be obvious. That, in my view, is the only possible conclusion. Nevertheless, it took five months for the government parties to reach the same conclusion. It should have happened before. It would have been a good thing for the Bank of Norway and the Oil Fund and people's trust in these important institutions. Just people's trust has been the central point for me and SV in this matter. Since April, I have been quite clear that we depend on people having great confidence in the oil fund – and on the one who runs the oil fund. The size has abolished the administration of the common wealth of the people to the Bank of Norway, but we have not made the oil fund independent of political rule, and it is our responsibility that the people have confidence in that administration. That confidence would have been weakened if the new oil fund manager had taken up the position with significant ownership of the AKO Capital. It would also mean that the fund would be in constant assessments of instability and potential conflicts of interest. It would be very unfortunate nationally and internationally. Through our process – as a result of questions being asked in the media and here at Stortinget, but in particular because of the important job done by the representative body, Stortingen’s own supervisory board – the employment agreement and the premises in it were tightened up. It shows the value of a press that follows the oil fund and its management, but also that we have an operational and thorough representation that is conscious of its responsibility. I want to give them credit for the job they've done here. Nevertheless, despite the crystal clear representation that there was a need to eliminate the risk of conflicts of interest between the oil fund and the general manager of the oil fund, the Norwegian Bank’s main board chose not to follow this up in the employment agreement presented on 28 May. In my view, it underlines the poor and critical handling of this employment by the Governing Council. The decision to accept that the new leader of the oil fund may hold holdings in the AKO, but it also concerns the fact that through this process they have contributed to undermining Norway’s efforts and efforts to combat secrecy and hidden money in the financial world and aggressive tax planning. While the opinions of the Governor of the Central Bank in this process are particularly problematic, neither the representative nor the Committee have been given an answer to what pilot studies the Governing Council had done to ensure that the ownership of the new Governor of the Oil Fund does not conflict with the Oil Fund's own tax and transparency expectation document – despite the fact that the Governing Council had therefore accepted that the new Chairperson could maintain a 43pst ownership. in a company that manages reserves registered in tax havens such as Cayman Islands and Ireland. And there's a difference between a hedge fund investor and a manager of the oil fund. The Committee concludes that the ethical principles of the Bank of Norway are not sufficiently respected in this process and is concerned that it may weaken the confidence of the oil fund. I would like to stress that, despite the fact that the Governing Council was responsible for this employment, it is also a political responsibility to maintain that trust, and here the Minister of Finance came too late – only after the Financial Committee had dealt with the matter. The Minister of Finance has contributed to unnecessary noise and to the extension of the case by hesitating to examine his own room of action and by intervening. Now it is precisely the Minister of Finance's responsibility to continue to follow up the changed terms of the employment agreement that have not been put into place so far, and I assume that the Minister of Finance here ensures that it is completed by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e601	I think we can all agree with what the Minister for Finance writes in a reply to the case rapporteur who has been referred to the matter. He writes: ‘After this recruitment process, I believe it is natural to consider whether there are learning points.’ I think that's natural to look at for the Ministry of Finance, it's also natural to look at the Board of Governors of the Bank of Norway. I think everyone agrees on that. In one area, everyone also agreed that a mistake was made, namely that the disclosure law was not complied with, by the fact that the current manager of Norway’s Bank Investment Management, NBIM, was not included in the public candidate list at the right time, but that this happened too late. This has been a complicated and long case that has been in the Committee. I would like to thank both the rapporteur and the committee for the work that has been done. It has been demanding. We have received a description from the representative of the hearing we had, where the head of the delegation says that there was, or is, a risk of conflict of interest even if it is reduced – it is small, but it is not eliminated. We had the same description from the head of the Governing Council: All risks, or conflicts of interest, are curbed for all practical purposes. This was a difference in understanding where we were, which the Committee had to deal with, and which is also the basis for the conclusions of the Financial Committee – which, of course, the Left and I are behind. We stress that the head of NBIM cannot have ownership or interests that create or may appear to create conflicts of interest that are suitable for weakening the trust and reputation of the Bank of Norway. We also stress that the head of NBIM cannot have ownership or interests that weaken or could weaken SPU’s work on taxation and transparency, and that these conditions need to be clarified before the accession of the new head of NBIM. Then it is important to stress, as others have also stressed, that the Storting does not hire a new leader in NBIM. We should follow the Central Bank Act and be aware of what is our role, our responsibility, just as the Minister of Finance must follow his responsibilities in the Ministry of Finance and the Board of Governors of the Bank of Norway have its responsibilities. I am pleased that we received this clarification from the Department of Justice and Defence at the very end of our proceedings. Following the conclusions of the Committee, the Minister of Finance, on his own initiative, contacted the Governing Council of Norway, which, on its own initiative, followed up the evaluations made by the Committee. The new head of NBIM also made his own decisions, which I believe follow up on the conclusions of the Committee. It has been important for the Left also to raise the issues of tax, transparency and tax havens and the relationship between SPU and tax havens in this case. It's already a huge amount of work SPU does to companies where they invest, and that follows up the expectations documents on taxation and transparency. It will be important on our part to see if we are going to strengthen the work against tax havens in the future. But we are doing the ordinary work of the Committee in the process of fund notification now in the autumn and also future fund notifications that come every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e623	I would like to join in the ranks of those who thank the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter. Over the course of this spring, we have shown time and again that we are capable of finding good solutions in what are new and demanding situations. It's about the big challenges we've faced with this virus outbreak, but I also think we're showing it in this case. That's good. I would also like to thank the case spokespersons in particular for the contributions that have been made here. When Stortinget has appointed a supervisory board as the representative and we get a letter from those who are outside the ordinary, there is a situation the Stortinget must take seriously, and which the Committee has now been properly dealing with through a hearing – and we have had a committee hearing – and which we are now having a debate and have to finalise. It is serious when one of them deals with issues such as the violation of public law, such as that of the new NBIM administrator not being able to ask questions about ownership interests, and that tax relations must be clarified in a way that ensures that no questions are asked about Norway's example in the fight against tax displacement and openness. It is the Stortinget that has adopted the central bank law on which this addition is based. We have created the representation, and we must and must deal with the letters and concerns that come from there. Then we've passed a central bank law that says it's the main board that's responsible for the operation of the bank and for adding a new head of NBIM. We also state in the notes that it is the main board that is responsible for the operation of the bank, that they comply with guidelines, laws and rules, and that they take care of that trust and the refute as they should. That's also good. It is good that the Committee is able to agree on the expectations we had, and that they have been met by both the Board of Governors of the Bank and the new head of NBIM and followed up in a good manner by the Council of State responsible. It's important, because these are institutions that depend on trust in the Norwegian people. The fact that there is a collective solution in the Stortinget now, I think I am helping to strengthen that trust, and not least the responsible people have taken a good stand against the signals sent by the Stortinget and the Financial Committee. The Council of State has said that this is the point of learning. I look forward to the further discussion about them. When it comes to the representative proposal from Red, I refer to the plural comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e641	A lot has been written and said about this matter. There have been countless hours of work at Stortinget, in Norwegian editors, in private law firms, in law offices and in departments – all this because a governor was completely blinded by Nicolai Tangen and forgot his duties. So the government and their loyal companions in the hall today will say that now everything is clean, the requirements of the Storting have been met, and the matter has been given a happy outcome. But it did not, because many serious questions persist, and I fear that this matter may come to haunt the Storting in the years that are coming. Firstly, are we going to apply our own rules to bank directors and billionaires in our country? Secondly, is a public official appointed by the King of State Council to avoid breaking the law and the central bank's own guidelines? Thirdly, how can we trust that the control mechanisms to protect this country's wealth from abuse will be respected once the formal ranking between the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the Central Bank and the Director of the Oil Fund is reversed? This is the background to Red’s proposal for a national audit audit and an assessment of whether the governor has the necessary trust required in his position. Then more new and serious information has been obtained in the case after we received the report from the representative office, and they seem to me to reinforce the need for these measures. I am thinking in particular of the Minister of Justice's orders for legal assessments. First, a so-called independent assessment was ordered from a private law firm, which, by virtue of its framework agreement with the Ministry of Finance, was required to act loyally against the grantor, who had at the same time assisted Nicolai Tangen in the recruitment process. Secondly, an assessment was ordered from the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs department, which reached a diametrically opposite conclusion to the so-called independent assessment. I have also noticed the revelations made in the media that there have been informal meetings without a record of the top bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank Olsen during the proceedings, and that were not reported in the Stortinget. This new information shows why it is essential for the Riksrevision to carry out an investigation to ensure that Storting controls the government in this case. The government’s handling of the matter is outside the mandate of its representative and has therefore never been adequately informed. It should not be possible for the Storting as a controlling body to live very well with it. It was obviously important for the Minister of Finance to establish that he could not intervene in his employment. It was important to him because the core of the matter was subsequently just Tangen's premise that he would retain the ownership of the AKO Capital, and the governor's acceptance of this when the Governing Council made the appointment in March. If the Ministry of Finance found out about this premise at some point in the period March–May without intervention, the Ministry just needed an explanation as to why it did not intervene. For a long time, their own interpretation of the central bank law was useful when they said that it did not allow them to intervene. It even seemed that the Minister of Finance would be able to avoid buying an investigation from a law firm that had assisted the Tangen in the process of becoming an employee. Fortunately, the Department of Law finally lowered its foot for this. When the Governor of the Central Bank and Nicolai Tangen presented the solution to Stortinget's demand that all ties between the Tang and the AKO Capital should be broken, it turned into a cause of joy. The tangent stated that the governor owed him a beer, and the oil drew a sigh of relief, for the tangent had just saved his own skin. But that beer can cost Norway dearly, because that beer affects the integrity of the governor and the community's trust in him. How can we trust that he can also act like the gatekeeper he's rigged himself to be because the tangent doesn't do anything wrong in his job, when the real power relationship between the two is so distorted? And how can we trust that the Minister of Finance will keep the Governor in mind in the future, all the time when the Governor of the Central Bank in this hearing at the Stortinget in August saved him with his statement that he could not remember to have informed about the Tangen's claim to retain his fortune. This is problematic, and this is the background to our proposal that the National Audit Office should examine the role of the government in the matter and make an in-depth assessment of whether the Governor has the necessary trust required for a man in his position. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e664	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e669	Norway’s Bank’s recruitment of the new NBIM leader is a case that has evolved over several months. I have always been concerned with respecting the formal frameworks that apply. Before presenting the case and the Ministry of Finance's understanding of the law, I would like to say that I am pleased that the main board and the new head of NBIM found a solution in line with the financial committee's expectations. When the Ministry of Finance drew up the Central Bank Act, the intention was that the Governing Council should have sole responsibility for the appointment of the Executive Director of NBIM. In its letter of 11 June to Stortinget, neither the right of instruction in the recruitment process nor the obligation of the Bank of Norway to inform the ministry was required. Nor was it in the letter that created uncertainty in the ministry as to how the law should be understood. It was not until the Financial Committee hearing on 10 August that questions were raised about a possible breach of the information obligation on matters of importance. That same week, I explained in answers to questions from the Stortinget about the ministry’s understanding of instructional access. I stated that the contact that had been between the department and the bank in the matter was in line with the legislator's leadership and the bank's information obligation on matters of importance and not relevant to the matter. It was the department's clear interpretation of the law, in line with the intentions when it was written. The debate that followed showed that there were differing views on the question of instruction. The Ministry therefore wanted to obtain an independent legal assessment. It was only one week before the Financial Committee planned to give its opinion on 21 August, and because an external investigator could reach conclusions different from those of the Ministry, it was in a hurry to carry out such an assessment. The Ministry considered that it could best be achieved by giving the assignment to a lawyer firm with the appropriate skills. Arntzen de Besche, with whom the department has a framework agreement, met these requirements. The assignment was given on 14 August, the investigation was available on 18 August and was sent to Stortinget the same day. In view of the continuation of the debate on the right of instruction, on 19 August we decided to ask the Legal Service for an opinion on legal access to instruct the Governing Council on the appointment of the Executive Director of NBIM. The Ministry received the Law Department’s opinion on 21 August and sent it to Stortinget the same day. The Department of Law outlined that the judicial area could be slightly larger than the Ministry had foreseen. In retrospect, I see that there would have been an advantage if the Law Department had been contacted earlier in the recruitment process, but the department was not in doubt about the understanding of the law until the debate in the days after the hearing revealed that the legal text could be understood differently from what it was meant to be. I have noticed that the majority of the committee believes that NBIM should as a general rule be managed from Norway. I agree. The main board of directors of the Norwegian Bank for the management of the fund has its seat in Norway, and the head of NBIM should be resident in Norway. At the same time, I am pleased that the majority indicate that it is natural that NBIM has foreign offices to understand and get close to the different markets in which the fund is to invest. I am pleased that the majority refers to finance as an international industry and that the fund should not be invested in Norway. The latter also follows the State pension fund law. It is good to debate all aspects of SPU, including who is the leader of NBIM, but this debate has not only created a debate, it has also created a need to look at the legal texts and formal frameworks. We need to figure out the learning points. Is there a need to clarify the legal text, so that the intention of the law becomes clearer? Have we learned that the intention of the law should be different from when the law was written? Is the formal framework for the role of the Ministry of Finance in the employment of the head of NBIM appropriate? These are questions we're now looking at. I want to get back to the answers when we're done with the review.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e686	It opens for line chord shifts. It's not in the overview that there should be lines, but it is, and the president will take into account that there will be a number of lines that maintain the relationship of strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e691	I note that the Minister of Finance in his contribution is busy with what the representativeness of the theme was in his letter to the Stortinget and not, and that his right of instruction was not a theme there. But I hope that the Minister of Finance does not think that others than he himself are responsible for clarifying his legal room for action in what later turned out to be a rather controversial matter. So my question is simply about why the Minister of Finance is waiting to get the Law Department's assessment of what room of action he had as Minister of Finance, until the same day the matter was to be sent to the Stortinget. And why did the Minister of Finance say that the Law Department didn't have time to make such an assessment before, when he hadn't checked with them before?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e698	As I explained in my post, the Ministry of Finance was not in doubt about how the law was to be written. It was the Ministry of Finance that was responsible for writing the law, and that had a clear intention that the main board should have sole responsibility for the employment. What I pointed out in my post was that there was no doubt about the Ministry of Finance's handling of this matter and the legal room for action. It only appeared at the hearing of the Financial Committee on 10 August. That was also the reason why we then ordered a legal assessment, but as I have stated in my post, I later see that we should have asked for that investigation before. But, as I said, it was only in the context of the consultation and debate that it appeared that there were different views on how the law was to be interpreted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e705	It is natural to follow up by asking what the Minister of Finance would have done differently at an earlier point in time if, at an earlier point in time, he would have understood that he had a slightly wider right of instruction than what he seemed to believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e710	One of the things I've mentioned is what's in the preliminary work on the law, about how the information exchange is going to be between the ministry and the Norwegian Bank. The preparatory work says that the Department should be briefed on candidates. It is quite obvious that if there was to be a greater scope for action for the use of instruction, there had to be completely different procedures for the exchange of information between the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway. These are some of the questions we're now looking at, and that's why I'm saying that we have to look at whether that intention of the department was when the law was written should be clarified in the law, or whether there should be another intention, namely that it should not be a sole responsibility for the main board. However, there must also be other procedures for the exchange of information between the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e719	I'm not asking about what's in the preliminary work of the law, I think everyone in the committee has read it thoroughly, but what I'm asking about is what the Minister of Finance would have done otherwise if he had obtained this material information at an earlier time, in a matter that I believe quite a lot now, some are even up to be very long and become much more dramatic than what she would have had to be had a choice to intervene at an earlier time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e724	That was just the question I answered, that if it had been made clear at an earlier stage that there was a larger room for action for the ministry, I too, as the responsible State Council, had to clarify what would be the framework and the procedures for the exchange of information. I want to be very clear that as the responsible state council in such matters I have to stay within the formal framework. It is particularly important that there is a clear division of roles in relation to key social institutions. But precisely with the debate we have had, with the conclusions of Storting, I have also stated in a letter to the Committee and to the representative that we need to look at learning points, and that there is also a need to look at the formal framework and the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e729	This was a matter that took place over a number of months, long before it ended up on the table in Stortinget, and neither was the Stortinget asking for the matter. It was the representative who sent a letter to Stortinget – a report. But in the public debate it was already in our several parties that were out there and said that here the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance have a general responsibility. So the matter happened along the way, why didn't the Minister of Finance think it was reasonable to get the Law Department's point of view at a much earlier time?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e735	I have already given the answer to that question. There was no concern in the department or any doubt in the department about how the law was to be understood. The Ministry was responsible for the law and had a very clear intention that the main responsibility lies with the Bank of Norway. The background for this is also that we should be able to hold the Bank of Norway responsible for the results of NBIM. There must be an agreement between the authority and the responsibility. Therefore, the intention was that the principal responsibility should lie with the Bank of Norway. I have explained very thoroughly to the Stortinget in several rounds about what information the department received at what time. We were briefed on candidates at an early stage, and I have also explained what information we then received, and how it was followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e740	As it emerged from the hearing of the Governor of the Bank, and as the Minister of Finance has also confirmed later, there was a telephone conversation between the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank before Tangen was published as a candidate for the position. That conversation referred to a concern expressed by the Minister of Finance. I understand that it is also the concern that led the Minister of Finance to take the seventh and last initiative towards the main board of the Bank of Norway, and that the matter found its solution. Why did not the Minister of Finance, when he himself expressed a concern, at a much earlier time, both to examine his legal space and actually to actively engage in the matter in order to help it find its solution at a long earlier time, for the benefit of all parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e745	I have explained in detail the background to that telephone conversation, and it did not contain any concrete knowledge of the terms and conditions of the candidates, who might have asked, and how the wealth had been connected. There was a concern on a more general basis where I was concerned that the main board of directors had to go back in time and see if there were any things that you should look at. It was a concern on a general basis that I thought was important for me as the Council of State to communicate. I also want to add that when I took an initiative to find a final solution, it was because it was expressed by Hans Andreas Limi from the Progress Party, who thought I should do it. It came as an initiative from Stortinget. The size also concluded on what you wanted to achieve. Then I thought it was time to have a dialogue with the governor on these issues as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e752	I am listening with interest to the answers that come from the Minister of Finance, but I am still unable with my best will to understand what the Minister of Finance thinks changed from the representative Limi expressed the need or desire for the Minister of Finance to examine his own room of action, and to the same concern and call came upon the spring side from several parties here on the Stortinget. The heart of the matter has been known all the way: the main board had initially accepted that the new manager of the oil fund could maintain ownership of the AKO. Then I record the Minister of Finance saying that no one in the department was worried or in doubt about how the law was to be understood, but we almost have to assume that there was a concern that ownership was to be maintained, that it was a premise for employment. Can the Minister of Finance respond to what changed during the summer, which made him take the call from Limi seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e761	As I have said both in my post and in reply, there was no doubt in the department about how the law should be understood. Nor was there anything in the letter from the representative body that raised these questions, namely the issue of the information obligation for the ministry and the question of access to instructions. There was no question in the letter. It was only at the hearing in the Financial Committee that these questions were raised, and after the hearing it turned out that what we thought was a clear law with a clear intention could be understood in another way. That was also the background to the initiatives we took. When Stortinget then concluded the way you did, and it was expressed a wish by big business representatives that I should take a role in this, I did.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e766	Thanks for the answer. As I see it, the question or disagreement about how the law could be understood, which was raised at the hearing of the committee, was quite similar to the disagreement which was raised earlier in the spring, and which, in my view, lies in an understanding of whether the oil fund or the NBIM is part of the Bank's particular independence or subject to political governance, in a sense. It should have been clearer at a much earlier time. Let me go to the further follow-up here. There is now an agreement that means that the new oil fund manager will liquidate his ownership of the AKO, that personal fund shares will be sold, and that the assets will be placed in banks. This has not yet been followed up, even if the new leader has joined. How does the Minister of Finance feel about following up on this, so that it will be in place by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e773	What I've done is to make it clear to the governor that Storting's intention is to be followed up. I don't have information that says it won't be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e778	Red has proposed that the government should assess the compliance of the Governor with his or her duties. To that end, the Minister of Finance states that, in his opinion, no information has been obtained which he considers is necessary for such an assessment of the obligation to provide services. Given the new information that has emerged about the Ministry of Finance's handling of the case, it is difficult, I think, to rely on the Minister of Finance's assessment in this case. When a senior official, appointed by the King of the Council of States, is responsible for a breach of Norwegian law, a breach of the Governor's own guidelines, and there are no consequences – is there not also a breach of that trust, the conviction, upon which the Governor of the Central Bank is completely dependent? Does the Council not see the problem of a public official violating the law in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e785	The point where mistakes have been made is linked to the Public Relations Act. It's been explained. I believe that there is no information that would indicate that it was necessary or appropriate to follow up this matter in line with what the leader of the Red has proposed. I have answered the question in writing to the committee, and have no other view of it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e790	It is an option under Paragraphs 2 to 12 of the Central Bank Act for serious breach of the obligation to provide services, for the person to be released from office if in his office he has broken down the reputation or trust necessary for the position or profession. I am thinking here of both the violation of the disclosure law, which is well known, and also that there may be a breach of the administrative law that a case should be adequately clarified, and also the breach of the guidelines on employee claims when it comes to ownership, which has then been changed afterwards, and the practices of the governor in recruitment. In our opinion, it is that such a high-ranking official as the Governor of the Central Bank cannot commit the kind of crime and trample on his own rules and guidelines without having consequences, and that we should have a review of it by the Council of State. I really wanted an answer as to why he's letting this go.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e795	If the representative from Red asks if I have confidence in the Governor, then I do. Then, in a letter to the Stortinget, in posts from Stortinget's pulpit and in line-word exchanges, I have explained how we are going to follow up this matter further. I've been very clear that we have to look at learning points. I believe that there is a need to see whether the law reflects what was the intention of the law, but also to consider whether we should have the same intention, namely that the main responsibility and sole responsibility should lie in the main board. I have notified that we will go through these questions, and I will of course come back to the Storting, so that these questions can be thoroughly discussed before we draw a final conclusion on what should be the way forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e801	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e808	I want to warn you that it may be necessary for me to draw another drawing, because this is basically a control case, and usually, when we have control cases, we have a little longer time, we who are not in the committee. I have to say that the setting we are now dealing with must be one of the strangest writings that Stortingen's plenary has ever received. The basis of the case is a letter from the representative office of 11 June, a letter that cannot be read with meaning without accepting the premise that the representative can put his own discretion into an employment case in the place of the Governing Council. Permitting such interference in statutory competences also undermines the principles of responsibility necessary for effective supervision and also breaks down the power structure on which our administration is based. The first paragraph of Section 4-1 of the Central Bank Act reads as follows: ‘The representative body shall supervise the operation of the Bank of Norway and shall monitor compliance with the rules governing its activities. The representative body shall oversee that the Governing Council has sound management and control of the Bank's administration and operations and that appropriate procedures are in place to ensure that the Bank's activities are carried out under law, agreements, decisions and other frameworks. Supervision does not include the exercise of discretion by the Governing Council.’;» [[...]] In Report. St. 7 for 2018–2019 ‘The supervision of the Board of Representatives shall continue to be a subsequent monitoring and supervision based on the minutes of the Management Board, and shall not open up the possibility of the representation converting the decisions of the Management Board.’;» I Prop. 97 L for 2018-2019 reads as follows: ‘If, after the Governing Council has been given a good opportunity to justify its decisions, etc., it considers that the Governing Council has not had satisfactory governance, or there has been a breach of legislation, the reaction of the representative may be to record comments on, for example, additional follow-up needs and to mention the relationship in the annual report of the Bureau to the Grand Duchy if it considers that the case requires such a reference. It is this type of reaction that is subject to active supervision by the Bank of Norway and not decisions to be directly operationalised.» It is strange that the Committee does not discuss these issues. On the contrary, the Committee goes further and takes up its role as a human resources authority in the case. Thus, the basis is a letter containing unsubstantiated allegations of facts, with assessment criteria added to the Governing Council by the Central Bank Act, and completely new control criteria that are not reflected in the law on any basis. I'm here for the risk assessment. I have to come back in a later article with the rest of what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e834	The President sees that there are no more speakers on the list, and Mr Tetzschner has the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e839	Thank you for that. Basic control principles are then challenged. This includes an open hearing, with oral statements lacking evidence in the letter, and ignoring the fact that the letter from the representative has been sent to the Stortinget without the possibility for the Norwegian Bank’s main board of directors or administration to speak, attend, supplement or correct errors of fact and juss. These are errors that have come to characterise the cause of Stortinget and which the setting still suffers from. Remember Ibsen's Peer Gynt: Where the starting point is crazy, the result is the original one. So you could say, is there any reason to talk so much about a matter that is solved? Yes, it is – because some have allowed themselves to perform a representation activity on behalf of the Storting in the light of a committee vote. They have collected me as a representative and Stortinget as a plenary. The matter was so urgent that the Department of Justice's law department was put under time pressure because they had to make an appointment in the Committee on 21 August. Today we write November 5th. The reason why it was so urgent at the time was that it was precisely the desire to fail the basic principles of control and supervision, namely the desire to intervene in an ongoing process. You wanted a parallel trial, and you wanted to be a reviewer. All three of these principles are to be seen that the control committee here in the house, along with the processing of administrative reports from the Riksrevision, would never have broken. There is also a subsequent discussion between representatives of the Committee and the State Council. So they want to impose on the Council of State a competence that the Stortinget has told him not to have under the Central Bank Act. It is not even possible to refer to the opinion issued by the Ministry of Justice, because it does not authorize the powers of the Council of State to intervene in individual cases. It says that the Council of State can enter into a general process that may have an impact on previously entered employment. It's something completely different. It shows that this Assembly, at least if we limit it to the Financial Committee, does not have the vocabulary necessary if the Grand Duchy is to be aware that the Council of State should not have excessive powers, because it will go beyond the general leadership laid down by law by the Grand Duchy. That's the one. The second is that we will simply also push away the main board of directors from what is fundamental to any liability, namely, that the proper bodies take the decisions that the Storting has given them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e852	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. At the request of the Financial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e883	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, replies will be given to replies from members of the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e890	Let me first thank the Committee for a very good cooperation in these matters. I will present unanimous committee positions. This is a matter that is a superior from the pre-corona reality. The proposal was presented almost a year ago, in December 2019, and the Committee started work in January this year. A hearing was also held on 27 February. The legislative proposal is based on the NOU from the Auditor’s and Accounting Law Committee in 2017 and the Audit Directive and the Audit Regulation, which was decided to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement in 2018. The aim of the law is to help ensure high confidence in audit services in Norway and to regulate audit activities that comply with EEA law. The auditor shall work independently, critically and objectively, vis-à-vis both public enterprises and business, provide confidence, create security and have a strengthened role in the fight against economic crime – a first line against tax evasion and labour crime. The Audit Directive provides several rules to ensure the independence of the statutory auditor, in particular with regard to public-interest entities, i.e.: banks, credit undertakings and insurance undertakings operating in the EEA securities trading market. Financial supervision is also provided with more possibilities for responding to infringements of the audit law. One of the most significant changes is the introduction of only one category of approved auditors in Norway: State-authorised auditor. This means that the title or scheme of the registered auditor ceases to exist. The continuing training requirement for the State-authorised auditor is also significantly strengthened. The higher standards of competence result from the importance of the auditor in the role of trustee of the public but are also a consequence of an increasingly complex and diverse business life. In particular, the Committee has been concerned with ensuring real equality between public and private audit practices as a basis for recognition as a State-authorised auditor. I refer to the request decision 858 from 2018. Public audit practices are carried out in accordance with the same international standard as private enterprises. Municipalities also meet the size and width of establishments. Such equality is also of great importance for recruitment to public audit. We have got a good solution where detailed rules on real equality of practice are laid down in regulations. The Committee also asks the government to ensure good transitional arrangements for persons with a bachelor's degree when the new law enters into force. I would like to make it clear that there are people who meet the educational requirements of the applicable law to be registered as auditor, and who have started the period of practice. These should be eligible for approval as a State-authorised auditor if, within a certain period of time and with a certain additional competence, they meet the requirements for practical training provided for in new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e907	Trust is one of the greatest values that we manage in Norwegian society – trust between one another, trust in the government, trust in bureaucracy, trust in businesses. This trust benefits from a pandemic with strict measures, which we are now up to. This trust benefits when democratic elections are smooth, as they are often in Norway. And not least, trust benefits us when we're going to pay taxes, either as individuals or businesses. This is where the auditors come in, because audit is incredibly important to ensure trust in the tax system, trust in public and trust in business. That is why the Labour Party believes that the main change adopted here today is the tightening-up, or clarification, of the rules on auditor independence. It is important precisely because we should have confidence that auditors do not contribute to aggressive tax planning or that there are cross-cutting interests in the auditor's work towards the companies. It is therefore important that auditors cannot carry out audits on public-interest entities for more than 10 years unless a new tender is announced. There will also be a ban on the provision of certain ancillary services, such as accounting and legal services. The EU Directive provides for derogations for tax consultancy and valuation services, but they are not to be used by Norway. That's good. I would then like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Agdestein, for his solid work on this matter in the Financial Committee. We have from several parties been engaged in gender equality between municipal and private audits to ensure competence and recruitment in the former. The government's proposals provide for formal equality between municipal and private audits, but the Committee makes comments and proposals to contribute to real equality. Therefore, we stress that when it comes to auditing of enterprises of a certain size, all municipalities in Norway meet the requirements regarding the number of employees, turnover, balance sheet, tasks and industries. We also clearly state that the requirement that auditors should have at least two years' practice of auditing accounting, tax and value added tax undertakings should not be regarded as cumulative requirements. Against this background, we ask the government to ensure real equality between municipal and private audit as a basis for approval as a state-authorised auditor, and an overall committee proposes to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e922	It is important, as the representative Knutsen also had in mind, to have clear and good rules relating to auditing, not least to ensure independence and to ensure the general confidence associated with the extremely important work of the auditors, and we support the legislative proposal that lies here. We've been very concerned about non-discrimination between private and municipal audit practices. There is a variety of experience from municipal audits, experience in auditing in different forms of organisation, and equal treatment with experience from private audit is important. It is also important, as the representative Knutsen pointed out, that the requirements on the experience of accounting and taxable undertakings are not cumulative. The representative, Mr Agdestein, as the rapporteur on the matter, was concerned about the transitional arrangements and the requirements there. If I perceive the representative correctly, there has been a certain ambiguity in the accounting industry about it, but if you have a bachelor's degree and are in practice in municipal audit today, it has to be counted equally in the transitional system, that it has been approved, so that one is not – I am saying – locked up in a position related to municipal audit, but that it is a corresponding approval. But I understood the case rapporteur there. So a last point related to the transition scheme. After all, what it does in practice is that it sets a watershed by 2017 after that transitional regime. At the same time, some students — not many — started their Bachelor's degree in auditing and accounting in Halden in 2018. As far as I know, these are the last ones who started such an education before the new law that is to come, and on the part of the Central Party, we believe it would be right that they should be included in the same transitional arrangement as the others. I would like to deal with that which the Central Party proposal has to do with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e937	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e942	I would like to join the previous posts and thank the case rapporteur for the thorough work done on this matter. This is where the committee stands, and it is very positive. Auditors and the law of auditors may not get the hearts to beat the hardest, or are the subject of the toughest debates we have in this room, but it is certainly important for the whole of society, and it is vital that the law ensures and maintains the broad public confidence. The main reason why the entire committee has been able to gather in the comments is that we ask the government to provide real equality between practices from municipal and private audit as a basis for approval as a state-authorised auditor – in line with what was also the intention of Stortinge in the 2018 decision in the context of the treatment of the municipal law. With this legislative decision, we also take important steps to strengthen the independence of the auditor. In particular, it is in my opinion that it is not possible for the auditor to provide tax advice to the audit customer. The audit regulation prohibits the statutory auditor of public-interest entities from providing certain services to the audit customer, for example: accounting and legal services cannot be provided. This Regulation provides for certain national derogations. The Ministry proposes their use, with the exception of tax consultancy and valuation services. That is what the Committee is behind. Tax consultancy can be a central premise for the enterprise’s strategy and decision-making processes. Thus, one could in retrospect ask questions about the objectivity of the auditor in the audit. When the auditor provides services other than auditing to the audit client, this role is challenged because the auditor may have provided ancillary services that impair the objectivity and scepticism that the statutory auditor must have included in the subsequent audit. If the auditor provides advice on how to set up the entity as part of tax planning, the auditor will be able to review the outcome of his own advice next time. So there's a good estimate of the department here, and the Storting joins. Finally, I should like to congratulate the Centre Party on the proposal that has been put forward as a loose proposal during the examination of this matter, on a transitional arrangement for those who have started bachelor's training. It is a proposal that I hope a total accumulation can join, to which SV is going to vote, and which I hope the government will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e955	In this proposition, the Government promotes proposals for new statutory auditors. The aim of the legislative proposal is to implement the amendments to the audit directive and to the regulation in Norwegian law. In addition, the proposal takes account of developments in the field of audit since the old law was passed in 1999. The legislative proposal shall also ensure that the work of the auditor is independent, objective and critical. This contributes to the creation of value because financial information improves, the basis of competition is similar and the tax base is more accurate. The legislative proposal also highlights the important role of the auditor as a contributor to the fight against financial crime. A diverse and complex business environment requires a high level of auditor competence. The legislative proposal therefore implies that only persons with a master's degree in accounting and auditing will be able to obtain approval as auditor. This is an important measure to ensure high quality of audit services in Norway. The Government will ensure that persons who have completed a Bachelor’s degree in accounting and auditing with a view to being approved as auditor have a reasonable transitional arrangement so that they do not need to undertake further training. In addition, we propose other important measures to ensure high quality and independence in the audit. An important step is the implementation of the audit regulation in Norwegian law. This Regulation applies to the auditing of firms with transferable securities traded on, for example: Oslo Exchange. The Regulation imposes increased requirements on how the entity’s choice of auditor is to be made and on how often the entity has to change the auditor and limits which other services the statutory auditor can perform in addition to the audit. We also suggest that the Financial Supervisory Authority can have more means of effectively supervising auditors. Financial supervision is provided, for example: access to the imposition of an infringement fee where the auditor has committed serious infringements of the audit law. Adequate and appropriate instruments and penalties are necessary to comply with the rules. The Government also requests the consent of the Stortingen to pan-European rules on auditing, which will contribute to high quality auditing in Europe and to a level playing field in the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e972	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e977	I think that the committee has both worked well on the matter, in good dialogue with the department, and that here we stand together on some important changes. So there's a question that I raised in my post. As I said, there are a few students in Halden – a third, I think – who started their Bachelor's degree in 2018. In other words, they have not come so far as they have come into practice, but they have started their bachelor's education, and they do not come under that transitional scheme, as described in the case. Does the Council of State see any problem or challenge in that they could possibly be included, and is there something that the Council of State would be willing to assess?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e982	We agree that this should be a transitional rule. I was not familiar with the offer in Halden, but it would of course be natural that we consider it in connection with the follow-up to Stortinget's position. I do not know anything about the matter in addition to what the representative, Gülsvik, has said from the Spokesman of Storting, but it is clear that when we are informed of this, it would be natural for us to look at it in the context of the transitional rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e988	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1007	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1012	The Korona crisis has been and is a major challenge for the Norwegian economy, for businesses, for workers and for residents throughout the country. The size has been particularly concerned with ensuring the social and security rights of workers. The Committee stresses the importance of the early extension of income protection schemes, so that more low-paid qualified persons were paid daily allowances and that a greater proportion of their lost labour income was compensated for by the lay-offs. The advance scheme for the payment of daily allowances and the compensation scheme for self-employed persons has had a crucial role for many. We will stress the importance of combating major social differences and economic inequality. One of the major differences in today's societies is between those who have jobs and those who are outside — and crises like this can help to reinforce this inequality. The long-term distribution effects are closely linked to the development of the labour market. Therefore, I would like to stress that our most important task in the future is to facilitate safe jobs and work for more people. Norway should be a country with small differences even after the Korona crisis, and therefore we need a good knowledge base to make the right decisions in the future. The government put in our committee of experts Norway against 2025, which is supposed to contribute to that. They shall assess the impact of the outbreak on the Norwegian economy in the future and the mandate shall open up to assess the financial burden-sharing of the crisis. They have already presented an interim report, and they will present a new report for the spring. Throughout the corona pandemic, the government has had good and important cooperation with the social partners, both from the employee side and from the employer side, and the established sample has a reference group that contributes with its experiences and perspectives from both sides. The selection also receives input from, and meets with, actors, industries and groups that are not themselves represented in the sample. The right-wing opinion is that the representative proposal from Red is met through the Norway sample by 2025. Right will create opportunities for everyone, and our most important task in the future to reduce the inequality is therefore to get more people to work. We succeeded in 2017 after the oil price drop, and we have to deal with it now. After 2017, the growth in purchasing power was strongest for the lowest income group, with at least one in advance, and unemployment fell to the lowest in 10 years. We can do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1029	A distinguishing sign in Norway has been a small difference and a high trust. Trust is falling, differences are increasing. If we're going to increase trust and reduce differences, we're actually going to have to grips with it. Work for everyone is job number one. Everyone must have a salary to live off, the possibility of a full-time job, and we must have a strong tradesmanship. The richest must contribute more to the community. If one distanced the property tax, as Right suggested at its national meeting, we would get 30,000 more zero-tax providers. Those with large capital stock have been greatly facilitated by the government, while ordinary workers have had less to travel with. It's going in the wrong direction. Another example: In the first crisis package, the government meant that the average employee would take the bill for the companies to cut short the employer's period. It was the opposition's seventh because the community took the bill in the case of an extended income hedge, as a higher degree of compensation to the licensed and prior payments. It is also known that it has been added specifically to the low-wage groups that were hard - pressed. It is high time that a closer look is made at how the coronary apathy affects the differences in society and assesses responses. After the Workers' Party's view, a new selection would make time pass from us. For this reason, the Labour Party proposes to extend the mandate to the entire reduction of Norway's selection towards 2025, which will assess the impact of the virus outbreak on the Norwegian economy in the future. I am very pleased that all the other opposition parties – apart from the Progress Party – support this, so that the selection expands its mandate to analyse and describe in particular the social and geographical distributional consequences of the pandemic and the crisis response. Why is Right so afraid of it? The government has once again appointed an expert selection and not a wide-ranging party selection. The selection is dominated by representatives from the economic and financial sectors in the Austland. The selection should be geographically balanced with several participants from the social partners and representatives of professional groups who are the victims of the crisis on the workers' side – those who have felt it on the body – and, of course, have expertise in inequality and taxation. We would then be given an answer as to whether the proposed measures underpin long-term objectives of reducing inequality and high levels of organisation, and we would get a wide-ranging selection in work quickly. I take up the proposals of which the Labour Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1042	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1047	The entire Norwegian community has been deeply affected by the consequences of the coronary apathy. We also see that, unfortunately, we are now in a new wave of infection. Already during the first days of Norway’s closure on 12 March, proposals were submitted to the Stortinget. In particular, strong measures were also adopted through the treatment of the Storting to try to make the situation a little less bad for some persons, businesses and self-employed in Norway, through both income insurance schemes for persons on leave, business compensation schemes and a separate self-employed scheme. It was quickly worked, and there were many crisis packages on current tapes. There were a number of measures which, for time reasons, did not get a good enough view, where there was a need to come back later. At first, there was a broad settlement, one of which was concerned with caring for everyone, both different social groups and the whole of Norway. One was to ensure that the crisis did not hit socially and geographically biased – one was to try to remedy it. But one has unfortunately seen over time that one has come back to a customary pattern, where the government, together with their support party, the Progress Party, maintains great bias in schemes that have been established, and continues them over time. In addition, some schemes are being phased out, for example for self-employed persons, which a few days ago received lower coverage through the income insurance scheme for self-employed persons. And the plan remains that the system will be phased out from 1 January 2021, despite the fact that there are a number of self-employed and freelancers who are in a very serious situation and who are in industries that are particularly hard hit by the crisis. We also see that this crisis is unfortunately going to last for a long time – for some industries perhaps for many years. Regarding the Gardermoen airport, which is in my constituency, Akershus, one says that air traffic may not be back at the 2019 level until about four to five years. We're going to see the effects of this on Norwegian society over a long time. It is then incredibly important that one is also willing — through a wide selection of partners — to look at both the social and the geographical effects in order to be able to make policy changes in order to ensure that all are cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1058	When the crisis hit us in March, the government had to make many decisions in a short time and on a limited basis. It was important that all parties supported these measures, and through intensive negotiations here on the house, we also got wide-ranging settlements in place. Tax havens were accompanied by more social welfare schemes and more targeted towards short-term policies. That was absolutely necessary. But then the crisis becomes a sort of normal situation, and for every crisis package that the Storting is dealing with, we see that the political differences become clearer. All along the way, the government has hesitated to introduce measures to ensure people's income, which can dampen some of the differences we see now. In October we saw a proposal for a government budget from the civil government where it was more important to cut the wealth tax for the richest than to continue a more social day money regime that gives the unemployed a little more time to rot. It will not only increase differences in Norway; it is also an unwise economic policy in a time of crisis. The list of the 400 richest capital in Norway shows that many of them, within, among others, property and groceries have increased their wealth through this crisis. Nevertheless, the state support packages do not require limiting bonuses and dividends or that the money cannot go to companies in tax havens. I fear that we will have a redistribution from the community to private wealth. We have to use the community's money to secure people's jobs, but we also have to demand that the money actually goes to it and does not end up in the owners' pockets. We also need to spend money on the fact that the outlaws and the unemployed have an income that is to live on, and a job to get back to. Then we need good income insurance schemes, and we need job creation. Now we see that we are in a crisis that is going to be in a shaky state, and I fear that the long-term consequences of this crisis will be serious for Norway. We see that it's going to go wrong economically, but we also see that it's now primarily the working class that gets sick by this pandemic. I fear that youth will be long gone from working life, that more young people will grow up in poor families, and that working life in the long term will become more unsafe. It would be harmful for the Norwegian economy and for people. That is why we also need a full review of how the crisis affects inequalities in society. And we need a new policy to counteract the differential growth. That is why the Red-Green parties today propose that we have this review and that we get new measures. It is disappointing – though not very surprising – that the government parties are not with us and support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1073	There is no doubt that we are in a very serious situation, and it was underlined in the Prime Minister's speech today. The infection situation we face makes it necessary to take much stronger measures to avoid losing control. It's an order that we all have to be more at home, and we have to have less social contact. It is clear that this will have major economic consequences, even this time. We're in the middle of a crisis. We don't know how long it's going to last, and we don't know what consequences it's going to have. We were in a similar situation in ours. I think the way the government handled that situation, and also the way the Storting handled it, is something that has given a respect to the population. That's what we need to follow up on in the future. Looking at the proposals, the government has now taken an initiative by setting up an expert committee, Norway, against 2025, where they are to assess the consequences of the outbreak of the virus, the development of the international economy, the measures to protect infection and the economic countermeasures that will affect the development of the Norwegian economy by 2025. The mandate description, as stated in the letter from the Minister of Finance, is broad and allows the sample to also describe and assess the burden-sharing arising from the outbreak of the virus. It is clear that this is going to strike different groups unevenly, and at present it is difficult to see how long-term it will affect it. So I think the way it is now, it's important that the expert committee that's going to be doing its work, and then we have to look later at what other investigations you'll need, and what other samples you're going to start. On the left, we will not support the fact that we are now going to go in and change the mandate and composition of the Committee of Experts in Norway towards 2025. We now need to make our assessments based on the infection situation, and then it is clear that the government needs to work out further measures. The size must work with them in the future to deal with the situation we are in, both in order to avoid excessive consequences of the outbreak of infection and the pandemic and to avoid excessive consequences for the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1090	In 2020, Stortinget has allocated billions to remedy the consequences of the pandemic. Much has been spent on income protection, on support schemes for various parts of the business world, on the necessary measures to keep people alive in the workplace and to prevent economic collapse for hundreds of thousands of people. At the same time, Red has been very critical that it took so long to get the money out to all those who were on leave. The majority made too few specific demands on owners of businesses and property before they were given large sums of government emergency aid. It may have increased opportunities for both misuse and private enrichment of Community funds. Earlier in the fall, the billionaire list of Capital showed that the wealth of the country's elite has hardly been affected by the deep economic crisis we are facing. It can't be that, while large parts of our society are bleeding, a few actors are left with an unjust state-funded profit – what American disparity researcher Chuck Collins has said about pandemic profit. Red believes that it is both in the interests of society, of the Biggest and also in the interests of businesses to investigate the crisis and the crisis policy, its distributional consequences in order to remedy, if necessary, afterwards. At least you have to ask the question about it, and then I'm not sure if the government parties really want to know the answer to that question. Red promotes our proposal because the government obviously refuses to use the F-word, i.e. distribution when they talk about the long-term consequences of the pandemic, and it is – strangely enough – not part of the current mandate of the government expert committee to consider the question: Who has lost, and who can have served during the crisis period we are in, not least because of the crisis packages from Stortinget? The opposition is united behind the requirement to change both the composition and the mandate of the sample. We should include the social partners and also social inequality and tax experts as well as representatives of those who have themselves been affected by the crisis. We believe that this sample should also examine and assess measures against inequality and against unfair profits. This could be done, for example, by: to strengthen the safety net in the light of the crisis or of various forms of special taxation on so-called pandemic profits.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1105	The representative Bears Moxnes from Red asks the rhetorical question: Who has lost, and who has served on the pandemic crisis? I think the simple answer is that we've all lost. There is no doubt that the global pandemic is a global health crisis that has given rise to an economic crisis, which affects the workplaces, and which – yes – is turbulent. There is no doubt that those who have little education, those who have low wages, young people, those who have weak links with the world of work, and the many vulnerable among us, come out of a crisis like this. That's also the background that the government has been all the way into looking at what we can do to just lift the groups that are hit hardest. The most important thing we can do is stop the infection. The next thing we can do – as we do – is secure jobs. The third thing we can do is to invest in education and empowerment for those who have a low level of education from before, so that they can spend the time they spend on daily allowances, on qualification. It is also – as both the magnificence and government have done – to ensure that we have even more favourable day-to-day arrangements, schemes that are better than they are in a normal situation. I note that the opposition – all outside the Progress Party – concludes that the answer to the challenge you see is to change the mandate of a sample that the government has set down. First, that sample shall be widely seen. They have delivered their first report, which is also described in the budget proposal, and these issues have been raised. They shall provide a new report on the basis of which the Perspective Communication will come in February and shall provide a final report before Easter. This means that there are not many months until they have to deliver their final adjustment. In the sample, LO and NHO are represented, and there is a reference group led by YS and Active, where the other parties are well represented. The opposition's conclusion is that I'm a blow in the air, but the issue that's going on, I don't think there's any disagreement in this room, either in terms of the issue, or in terms of what we have to do to deal with it, namely make sure that we secure the jobs and contribute education and skills to those who have the weakest connection to the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1117	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1122	Small differences and high trust are linked, and it's been a hallmark of Norwegian society. The NHO, to which the government tends to listen, is concerned that trust is so strongly declining in Norway. My question is very simple: is it a government measure that the differences should be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1129	The representative says that trust in Norwegian society is strongly decreasing. Where did the representative come from? I believe that having a society with little differences and great trust is a strength. If there is something we have experienced during this crisis, there is just the strength in the short distance between the employee organisations, the employers' organisations and the authorities. The good dialogue between opposition and position is also a strength. But trust is not something you get in a society forever. That's something we need to strengthen, work with and earn. I'm worried that a crisis like this can help increase the inequality in our society. That's the background to our strategy for Norway's way out of the crisis, which is that we need to create more and include more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1136	I want to repeat my question, because I could not believe that the Council of State answered what I asked for: Is there a measure for the government that the differences should be reduced, or should it be kept at the current level?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1141	We've seen that the differences have increased while the red-greens put in government, and we've seen that there has been a development in the last 30 years. I think it's important that we reduce the inequalities in our society. The Labour Party always comes back to the fact that the answer to this is to increase taxes for those who create Norwegian jobs. If we're going to reduce the inequality in our society, I think we need to create opportunities for everyone. It's about education, young people have to finish high school. It is about inclusion, so that no more are permanently excluded from the labour market. It is about the many small and large measures that the government has taken over seven years and that we are building up in the crisis we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1146	In its speech, the Council of State states that the most important thing is not the mandate of a sample, but the kind of action it implements in the crisis. But the problem is that the government is not showing the will to correct social and geographical imbalances in crisis policy. Some enterprises get millions in support, others get similar businesses almost nothing. There are schemes for self-employed workers which are now to be stepped down and then wound up, according to the plans that are at least so far known. The government put forward a proposal to double the travel tax and reintroduce the air passenger charge, in the midst of a major crisis, which is definitely affecting geographical and social conditions. Why does the government not at least show its willingness to participate in the process of social and geographical impact of the downturn of the sample?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1151	The answer to the last one is that it does the sample. There is something completely new in this process if the opposition is going to start rewriting the mandates of expert committees set by the government. I have great respect for the Centre Party and the rest of the opposition, but the husband of lack of creativity – starting to look at the composition of a sample and the mandate of the sample. Now see what the sample comes with, then. Read what is stated in the budget proposal, where we already point to these issues that I, the Prime Minister and the Government have been talking about throughout the crisis, namely that we must have measures that do not hit young people or that those with the weakest connection to employment are affected. We have to make sure that those who go on a daily allowance have the opportunity to gain competence. Not least, we need to make sure that we secure the jobs. That's the most important thing we can do to reduce inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1156	What is lack of creativity in the composition of samples is, of course, the government stands for the time after time to come with expert selections, instead of wide-ranging selections that represent and can tell about the reality of different places in Norway, in different social groups, and how the crisis strikes at a different level. The problem is precisely that the government has not shown the will to extend important measures implemented by the Storting or to adjust schemes to make them better. Businessmen are going downhill with their business. People are in a very serious situation. There is a need for many more powerful measures. There is a need for a comprehensive crisis plan, not clumsy schemes that are now coming. Why is it that we are not willing to raise our eyes and take part in seeing that the committee which was set up for a different period of time needs a different mandate?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1161	That the representative again concludes with a mandate to a sample that the government has put down – I thought the centre party was a bit concerned with the difference between government and big business. When the government puts down a sample, it's the government's selection. Then we present the conclusions of the reports in the messages we submit to the Stortinget. I'm recording that the Center Party is, of course, fighting for the Central Party's policy. But it is not that the central party's policy is necessarily the only right crisis policy. I travel a lot around the country – I have done it now in the autumn – to listen to business, to businesses and to employees. What I hear is a great deal of gratitude for the job done by both the Storting and the government, for the action that has been shown, and that this has helped to reduce the depth of the crisis and the speed of recovery.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1168	Earlier today, Prime Minister Erna Solberg presented the government's management of the pandemic and new disease prevention measures. In this context, SV has taken the initiative to ensure that several of these measures have to be addressed to the Stortinget and that the Stortinget must be involved. It is in keeping with the culture, the practice that we developed in ours, that we are united in dealing with the crisis that the nation is facing. They're not just government. Therefore, Storting also has an interest in and a legitimate desire to look at the consequences of those measures. The opinion of the red-green parties is that many of the measures currently being implemented are not sufficient to ensure that the differences will decrease over the coming years. I am therefore greatly surprised that the Minister of Finance is opposed to extending that mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1173	I believe that the mandate is broad. The composition is wide. LO and NHO are represented in the sample. We've set up a reference group that's run by YS and Works, and where the other parties are represented. It is quite obvious that when looking at the economic and structural changes that may come from the pandemic, one must obviously also look at how this will turn out. This has been one of my major concerns from day one in the management of this crisis – that it will just affect the most vulnerable, that it will affect young people, that it will affect those who have weak links with the labour market, and many of those who work in the service sector, who do not have previous training. That is why we have taken a number of measures to combat this and to ensure that more people can get more education. And I'm also open that you can do things differently, and that you can do more. That is also the background to the broad approach we have had in the dialogue with the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1179	I think it may be important to take a step back and remember the consequences of the financial crisis, which hit internationally in 2008-2009. What we've seen in retrospect is that the differences have increased dramatically in several countries. In some countries, it has been mainly due to the fact that they have withdrawn at the top — including through state rescue measures carried out during the financial crisis — while in ordinary work class professions, people have gained pay stagnation and are lagging behind. It contributes to social unrest in many of these countries. I fear that the same situation could arise in Norway. If the Minister of Finance believes that the measures that have been implemented so far, or that come into the state budget, are sufficient to counteract the increasing differences, I think the Minister of Finance is completely wrong. Obviously, you've put down a sample, where people come from different places. But with respect to reporting, it's not having many economists from multiple places the same as width.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1184	No, but this is a sample to listen to. There is a sample that relates to a reference group. It's a sample that's going to listen to many different groups with different backgrounds different places in the country. The selection has a very short time frame. Some reason is that we are going to provide a perspective message that Storting will be able to discuss in depth before the summer of 2021. I think that's important. I think most people take on the fact that this crisis is not over at New Year's. It's not over for the summer either. We're going to be in a long run, just to help Norway and our inhabitants get the best out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1193	The Council of State calls for a little more offensive action than simply blaring at the mandate and composition of a sample. That's okay. I can face two challenges that are in the same mall as what we are talking about now: the situation of those who have been long-term unemployed is that they are now being thrown out of the day-to-day pay system. 8 000 will be thrown out before the New Year — a total of 25 000 before the summer. They will be without income insurance, likely to be given either a partner or, where appropriate, to seek social assistance in the municipalities. Why not extend the daily allowance for the long-term unemployed as long as the crisis continues? The second thing is that when June comes, a lot of people in our country will get a call back, as they will no longer make up holiday money supplements for the day money. It removed Sanner and Solberg's government in 2015. Why not reintroduce this holiday money supplement to the daily allowance when so many people have lost their job, and will stand with much less money when June arrives? Then the bills also come in, as usual. Power is to be paid, food, rent and mortgage are to be paid. They need money, but they don't get it because the holiday money supplement is cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1200	The most important thing we can do to secure those who are now unemployed is to secure jobs. The measures we have taken since March, but also before that, are just about securing jobs for people. Fortunately, the number of persons on leave and on leave has fallen sharply from the highest level, but remains too high. There is also a background for the government to present comprehensive measures, which will work both now in the autumn and will work into 2021. The Prime Minister was in Stortinget earlier today and explained the situation we are now facing because of increased infection. We have therefore released the additional number for Stortinget to the next Tuesday, because we also need to assess the economic aspects of the further management of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1207	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1226	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be given a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1233	This is a proposal for a representative in which the proposers propose to ask the government to propose changes to the rules for the pension of survivors and spouses in the statutory service pension schemes and in the compulsory pension laws, so that co-workers who have the right to inherit in accordance with the succession are treated as spouses when it relates to the rights of spouses and co-workers in the occupational and spouse pensions. Furthermore, it is proposed that proposals be made for changes to the provisions of the Law on Social Security if necessary in order to comply with the laws of the Legislature on Spouse and Sambuar. In the letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that the government is working on a legislative proposal in which the thematic link to the rights of people living in the public domain will be taken up. This case was made on 16 October and is being treated as a Prop. 13 L for 2020-2021 in the Labour and Social Committee, while we are having this debate. The proposal also includes the rights for community members to a public service pension. There may be several good reasons for equality between spouses andpartners when it comes to public service pension coverage, but any assessment should be made in the light of the changes being made in the population’srespect. In the case of private service pension schemes, there is now a broad framework for private sector enterprises to choose whether to provide benefits for the living of the service pension scheme and the level of benefits. Any change in the design of voluntary benefits should be considered in the light of the changes proposed in the public interest and, where appropriate, in the public service pension. In view of this, the majority have argued that it is not right to proceed with a decision now, all the time there is a bill for dealing with the labour and social committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1248	I take the floor just to point out that of course we believe that these proposals should have been adopted, so we are going to vote against the position that they should not be adopted. But when we do not take them up again and promote them, it is because, as the previous speaker pointed out, the government has now put forward a proposal for amendments to the People's Security Act for the Stortinget, which deals with, among other things. These problems, and that we then find it most appropriate to make proposals when dealing with that matter. I therefore do not go into the reality of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1253	The right considers that there are several good reasons for equality between spouses, partnerships and cohabitants with regard to the right to the survival benefit of public service pensions. Thus, for private enterprises, there is no obligation under the compulsory occupational pension law to have pension coverage for survivors, but if survival coverage is not agreed in collective bargaining agreements etc., enterprises may choose whether they wish to have such a scheme. The Occupational Pensions Act provides a broad framework for enterprises to choose the scheme they want, and in this context, benefits are usually life-long, although they can also be provided for a limited period of time. The Leaven Committee issued its report NOU 2017: 3, The benefits of Social Security for the Survivors – Proposals for reform. There is evidence that today’s life patterns are more diverse and less dominated by lifelong marriages. This is why the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is working on a legislative proposal that will address this issue. The right considers that an assessment of the changes in the survival benefits of public service pensions should be made in the light of the changes proposed in the social security system and that any right of survivors should be included as part of this review. A change in the rules of the statutory occupational pension schemes would result in a corresponding change in the rules of municipal occupational pension, and could also have consequences for the inheritance law, which needs to be clarified and clarified. The right considers, therefore, that there are several good reasons to equate spouses and cohabitants with regard to the right to the survival benefit of public service pensions, but it is important for the Right to consider any changes in the light of the changes that are assessed in the public interest when it comes to treatment. We believe it is important to see benefits to survivors in the context and will therefore vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1266	Like those behind the proposal for a representative, I also believe that there are good reasons to have equal rules for cohabitants and spouses in terms of entitlement to a survivor's pension. I would therefore like to assess whether there is a need to make changes to the rules on private occupational pensions, but I believe this must be done as part of an overall assessment of the legislation. The government has recently put forward proposals to convert the benefits of popular security into survivors. Modernisation of public service pension benefits may be natural in the light of the changes that are now being proposed in the public interest. In any case, in order to have a comprehensive review and modernisation of the legislation on survivors' benefits, it is also natural to consider at the same time changes to the private schemes. Private occupational pension schemes shall comply with the minimum requirements of the compulsory occupational pension law. This includes, inter alia: that companies' schemes must have an old-age pension for employees and continue to save pensions in the event of incapacity. In addition, it is optional for such schemes to provide benefits to survivors. If the plan has survivors' benefits, it may be in the form of a spouse's pension, a cohabitation pension or both. In the case of a spouse pension, a pension to registered partners shall also be included. Figures from Finance Norway show that divorce and cohabitation pensions are not widely used in defined contribution schemes, which are the most common form of private schemes. Only 3 pst. of the defined contribution schemes, there is a spouse's pension or a cohabitation pension today. I believe that the freedom of choice of companies as to whether or not the schemes should have survivors' benefits should be continued. In addition to statutory minimum pension requirements for employees, enterprises should be able to continue to adapt schemes to their economy. Therefore, I do not intend to propose changes in the freedom of choice to have survivors' benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1279	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1296	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be given the right to reply to replies from members of the government, and those who may sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1303	First, on behalf of the rapporteur, I would like to express my thanks to the Committee for the good cooperation in this matter. The ability to reduce emissions from the transport sector is crucial if we are to achieve the goals we have set to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This is why the government has implemented many changes to the car tax system, so that it gets twisted in a greener direction. It shall be profitable to choose low-emission cars, whether hybrid or electric. This powerful policy has resulted in the targets for emissions from the car park set by Stortinget being achieved three years in advance. That's very good. Six out of ten new cars sold in October were electric. This shows that the policy is working. Right-wing believes it is important that we now follow up the process the government has set up in connection with a new and sustainable car tax system from 2025. The government is now in dialogue with the industry and is getting an idea of how best to do this. The goal of only zero-emission cars in the new car sales from 2025 is fixed, and we are on the right track to achieve the goal. The Granavolden platform is clear that the benefits associated with non-recurring taxes and VAT are to be continued beyond this charging period. That is why we on the Right want to support the work that the government is now doing. I look forward to the government completing this work, which is broad and involves the entire industry and all actors, and comes back to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1314	The conversion of car charges that premium lower emissions — and for electric cars the full exemption from both one-off and VAT — has been a success. The goal has been a more climate friendly car park, and we have received that. The electric cars now make up 60 pst. of new car sales, and fossil cars emit less. The profit has gone to the climate and people who have bought a new car with an ever lower charge. People with extra good advice have got an extra big gain. Half of those who buy an electric car have 50 pst. income higher than that which only owns other types of cars. A not surprising side-effect of this success is a growing gap in government revenue, summing up to 12.4 billion in 2019. kr. There has been a broad consensus in the Storting on this policy and on the objective: that people in 2025 only choose zero-emission cars – with corresponding growing gaps in the state treasury, which worried even the previous Minister of Finance, from the Progress Party. It is also widely agreed that we need a new car charging system. The government has started work and received input from the industry, but this is urgent. How long are electric cars to be discriminated against in terms of VAT and user charges? Electric cars also wear on the roads, whirl up asphalt dust and take up space in the cities. I don't think anyone thinks the two things that are going to have zero moms are culture and electric car. In reality, the VAT exemption constitutes State aid exempted from this year only. We still don't know if it's being accepted in the future, as the government adds up to it. So why hasn't the government cleared it up before? We believe that the VAT exemption should be gradually removed in order to avoid an excessive transition, and will repeat our proposal last year that electric cars be subject to VAT for the price from NOK 600 000 up and down, in our proposal for a State budget. We believe that a new and sustainable car tax system must be based on principles that do not require exemptions for specific car types, neither in terms of purchase fees nor user charges, and where the competitive advantages are linked to the level of emissions. Work on the new system should aim for the widest possible agreement with industry and organisations – and here in the house. Everyone has earned a broad political agreement on the car charges, as we have actually had at present. With this, I address the two proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1333	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1338	The size has decided that from 2025 only zero-emission cars will be sold. It is essential to achieve Norway’s climate objectives, and we need to strengthen the means to get there, not weaken them. Therefore, I must say that I am quite concerned about this proposal from the Red, and not least the comments from various parties in this Chamber. The most important thing must be that we achieve the 2025 target, but unfortunately it does not sound like that, because that is not even mentioned in the Red's proposal. They only propose unilaterally to weaken the power of an electric car, and several other parties here follow in that regard. Then we don't reach our climate goals. By leaving the 2025 target in control, VAT could well be phased in on the most expensive electric cars while safeguarding the competitiveness of electric cars. SV therefore proposes the following order: first we have to close the gaps in the leasing market, then tighten the differentiation between electric and fossil cars through increased charges for fossil cars and then introduce VAT on electric cars, gradually and predictablely. Remember: 90 pst. Of the cars in Norway, fossil cars are still sold more in Norway than electric cars. The electric cars sell best in the car segments with the smallest cars. Intermediate cars and larger cars have a significantly lower electricity ratio than the car segments with small and compact cars. So the car segment with the largest electric cars, which both have a long range and are district- and family-friendly, is that segment with the lowest electrification ratio. The electric cars are generally much less competitive in this segment, but it's also in this segment that we find the fossil cars that pollute the most. And it's these cars that are being taken with this proposal. Now, if we unilaterally impose charges on the big cars segment, more people will just buy petrol or diesel cars, and the climate targets are getting harder to achieve. Significant incentives are still needed for electric cars in Norway through tax exemptions and increased charges for petrol and diesel cars. Therefore, SV is currently promoting several proposals to combine the phasing-in of electric car charges in order to achieve the 2025 target. Because that's actually what targets us, too, in terms of our national climate targets. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1349	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1354	I am also one of those who respond to these proposals. Our electric car policy works in Norway. We've been on it for a long time. And by the fact that the Left has at least had a big impact on it, we've been holding on to the last two major periods. We're going to reduce our emissions by 50 pst. by 2030. To do that, we have to achieve the goal of just selling a zero-emission vehicle by 2025. This became a return agreement in 2016, and it is for the Stortinget to maintain the objective of selling only a zero-emission vehicle. It must also lead to any changes in charges. We need to know that we reach the goal before we can bring about changes in the charging system. We have the world's highest electric car share today. Last month the share was sold 60 pst. We're probably 50 pst. for this year. But that's where we need to be. If we're going to achieve the goal, the share we sell must be 60 pst. Next year, and we have to reach 70 pst. the following year to complete 100 pst. in 2025. I see that it is a proposal that we can alternatively ban 2025, but we do not have that possibility. It is in the EEA Agreement that this possibility has not been delegated to each EU country. That's why we can't do it either. Therefore, the charging system is the possibility to achieve the target. I don't understand why you have to go away from what works now, because as mentioned earlier, it's still only 10-11 pst. of the zero-emission vehicle fleet. If we look at the whole country, there's a big overrepresentation of those who have now benefited from the tax exemption, who live around the big cities. What we need now is to hold on to this, so it's an offer for the whole country, and to get up the share of zero-emission vehicles across the country. It is also a good district measure to maintain the benefits, so that everyone can have the opportunity to make the necessary transition from traditional cars to zero-emission vehicles. It is also the most effective climate action we have. It is essential at the moment of purchase that it is advantageous and that zero-emission vehicles are competitive. That's how we have it today, and this we have to hold on long enough to know that we're reaching the goal in 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1367	The proposal that has been made here – to find out different models such as the cuts in the tax exemption for the most expensive and heaviest electric cars, and to get back to the Stortinget in an appropriate way – seems that a number of parties should be able to stand behind. Based on the public debate, in the context of party programming processes and in other contexts, I have recorded that this kind of proposal is being discussed, including in my own party. Getting knowledge, asking the government to set up different models for it, is something the Storting should be able to join. Then the Storting will have the opportunity, at a later stage, to decide at an appropriate time how to deal with the knowledge that one has acquired through such investigation work. Therefore, we believe that it makes sense to make such an investigation, but not to conclude at this stage. I would like to take up with it the proposal of which the Central Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1374	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, then drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1379	Replacing fossil cars with electric cars is an important measure to cut greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector, and various charges between fossil cars and electric cars are a good tool to achieve this. However, since the exemptions for electric cars, i.e. exemption from VAT and a one-off charge, do not have a maximum limit, the current charging model has some unfortunate results. Those who can afford the most expensive electric cars also receive the largest subsidies. If, on the other hand, you have a salary that does not provide room for buying a new electric car, or works at times or places that make it impossible to take a bus or tram, T-Bahn or trains, you have to pay more in tolls and charges with today's charging policy. We want a fair environmental policy to ensure that the population is brought up with the necessary measures to reduce emissions, and then we have to distort the subsidies from the most expensive and heaviest electric cars to better and cheaper public transport and the development of charging infrastructure across the country. Figures from the SSB show that new purchases of electric car are more restricted to those with the highest income. 64 pst. electric car households also have at least one diesel or petrol car. Those with good advice can stay with both a fossil car for cabin use and an electric car to drive cheaply in the bombing with, while too many others are not at all an alternative, either because it is too expensive, or because there is no charging infrastructure nearby. The total tax advantage for electric cars has been estimated by the government to be SEK 19.2 billion. kr for 2020. This doesn't go to everyone, but those with the worst advice get the least out of the way the system is rigged today. We believe that the part of the subsidies that goes to the most expensive and heaviest luxury cars bought by those who have the best advice should rather go to environmental measures that benefit most people throughout the country. We can do that by, for example: to strengthen the collective offer also outside the major cities, cut the price and/or value added tax on buses, trams, rail and trains and by introducing national maximum price for ferries along the county roads. We need to facilitate renewable energy to replace fossil energy for transport by expanding the charging infrastructure for electric cars in residential, communal and outside cities, strengthening the support system for shore-side electricity for ships in ports and through state funding for conversion to environmentally friendly ferries. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1391	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1396	The government's objective is that all new passenger cars and light vans should be a zero-emission vehicle in 2025. Electric car policy is central to achieving this goal, including in the future. The sale of new zero-emission cars has risen sharply in recent years, from a share of 17 pst. in 2015 to about 50 pst. in 2020. This includes, inter alia: a result of the government's electric car policy. At the same time, all the tax exemptions lead to a significant decrease in the country’s revenue from the car charges. These revenues have fallen from 63 billion. SEK in 2013 to about 40 billion. kr in draft State budget for 2021. If all new cars become zero-emission cars in the long term, this is not economically sustainable. There is a contrast between a rapid conversion of the car fleet and the need for state revenues. It creates some challenges. Technological developments have also made electric cars today much more reasonable and attractive for consumers than at the time of the introduction of the current tax exemption. This is why the government of the national budget for 2021 has presented principles for a sustainable car tax system from 2025. In working on the principles, the government has received input from and listened to representatives from industry, the environment and other stakeholders. A future car charging system needs to be adapted so that almost all cars will be zero-emission cars. A sustainable car tax system must praise the external costs of vehicle use. The system must impose charges on both the purchase and ownership of vehicles and must be based on a stable charging basis. The system must be technologically neutral and must take account of distribution considerations. The transition to a new car tax system should be gradual and predictable. By presenting these principles, the government wants to contribute to increased predictability of the direction in which car charges will change in the coming years. The government believes that the conversion to a sustainable car tax system should start now. That is why, in the budget for 2021, we have proposed some minor changes to the car charges that will move in that direction. In the future, the government will consider several changes in line with these principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1416	I heard the Council explain some principles about a new car tax system. I expect him to agree that it would be an advantage if we had the widest possible political agreement on it, so that it would not be subject to change with changing governments. So then the question is how he will more specifically involve Storting in that work, so that we can ensure the widest possible agreement on a new system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1421	Now I hope for predictability in terms of both who is in government, and what principles we follow. For the first thing, it's up to the voters next harvest. We have put forward the principles precisely because we want to get a broad anchoring of them and that they should be involved in creating predictability. The work of the Stortinget will have to take account of a broader lashing, so there are issues that need to be assessed in the Financial Committee and in the work that the Government is now doing with the 2021 National Budget, where the principles have been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1428	Predictability is good, but new ideas and better solutions can be better. In electric car policy and the debate around it, it often appears that only the size of the wallet is relevant to whether you buy an electric car or not. But the reality is that it is also closely related to whether you have the ability to charge your electric car or not. That's why we see that there are several people living in single homes, with good access to charge in their own garage, who can buy an electric car, instead of people living in blocks, housing camps and joint stores. In the Granavolden platform, the government promises to put in place a support mechanism to enable housing law and joint ventures to establish charging infrastructure for those living there. There has been a change in the law that has been positive, but there is still a great need for such a support scheme, as it is expensive for many communities and housing laws to install charging capacity. So the question is, when does that aid scheme come?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1439	First of all, I want to say that I think it's important to discuss these questions, and that we have the different sides to this. Yes, it is important to ensure tax revenue to the country. Yes, it is important to ensure that we have an environmentally sustainable car park, and that we are able to achieve the goals we have set for 2025. We have prioritised putting in place this change in the law on housing law, and I record that there are several people who have already taken such initiatives, and that there are more possibilities for letting down in housing laws. I am not aware of how the work on any aid scheme is now. I guess it's something that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation or the Ministry of Climate and Environment will work on, so it's possible to send questions about that in the further budget work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1446	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1453	In 1989 I stood in the Prince's Gate in Trondheim with a gas mask and a poster saying "The car suffocates the city". Nature and Youth were responsible for the action. The air pollution in Trondheim was very serious due to emissions from the polluting car traffic. Today the situation is much better. Some of them are thanks to the electric car revolution. Norway has the highest electricity car share in the world. Finnmark actually has a higher electric car share than California, and the county can now be congratulated with an electric car record in October: Four out of ten new cars purchased were electric cars. 90 pst. Unfortunately, there are still fossil cars in Norway, and more fossil cars are still being sold than electric cars. It is environmentally irresponsible to reduce the benefits for electric cars, as Red proposes today. The largest electric cars that have both a long range and are district- and family-friendly are the car segment where there are fewer electric cars sold. In this segment, electric cars are much less competitive, and here we find most fossil cars that pollute the most. Red's proposals also mean that people in the districts are not allowed to participate in the electric car revolution. They're locked onto fossil cars, which we know are just going to be more expensive and more expensive to use as the cost of pollution goes up. The Red's proposals also affect Norwegian industrial workplaces. A few weeks ago, I was with Elkem in Kristiansand. They have established a battery graphite production pilot plant, some of which will go to electric car batteries. Furthermore, we can produce Norwegian aluminium mills, which produce aluminium used by electric car manufacturers. The establishment of a battery factory in Sørlanden is now also being discussed. In today's edition of Fädrelandsvenn, we can read statements from the innovation manager in Morrow Batteries, Bård Karlsen, who says: ‘Nickel, manganese, cobalt, graphite, silicon, aluminium and copper are all key inputs in battery production. Everything you have within an hour's distance from here. It's totally unique. And then the process industry in South Africa is world-class, which is also crucial for a battery factory here." The aim of the new battery factory is to supply batteries to the largest industry in Europe: the automotive industry. More than 2 000 jobs can then be created in South Africa, and there is a huge effort to show that the electric car revolution is a major contributor to job creation in Norway. By weakening the electric car revolution, as Red now suggests, without implementing the ever greater tax increases for fossil cars, both climate and Norwegian industry will lose. We are left with increased emissions and fewer jobs in industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1471	Time's up. It's voting time. 14, so the representative Moxnes has to make his statement after the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1483	Then we're ready to vote, but first Sigbjørn Gülsvik gets the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1488	Case No. 5th@item: inlistbox In the light of the debate on the matter, I would like to re-examine the proposal for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1493	It's noted. The deposit will first vote on case No. 7 on Tuesday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1507	In the course of the debate, 11 proposals have been put forward in all. It's proposed no. 1-7, by Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposed no. 9 and 10, by Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 11, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to tighten up the conditions under which disproportionate burdens can be used as arguments for exempting undertakings from the universal design of their own activities.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1539	Proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for secure e-election solutions for the blind and partially aware of future municipal and county elections and decision-making, church elections and elections to the Sameet.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1556	Proposal No. 10, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the introduction of a universal design requirement in the cultural sector and to provide accompanying documents to persons who need to be accompanied, as input requirements for public support for cultural events.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1573	Proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of the conditions under which disproportionate burdens can be used as arguments for exempting operators from universal design of their own activities.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1600	Alternatively, between the recommendation and the proposal No. 1-7, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government of a new Universal Design Action Plan, notified in 2021, to set a deadline for Norway to be universally designed by 2035.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The size asks the government to incorporate «Veikart. Universally designed secondary school 2030 ’ in the forthcoming Universal Design Action Plan, and providing adequate incentives.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the universal design of the transport sector to be incorporated as a general principle into a new national transport plan in order to achieve the universal design of Norway by 2035.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the anti-discrimination legislation to include the right to information, goods and services for people with disabilities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to require municipalities to ensure that all polling facilities and meetings of municipal and urban authorities take place in universally designed premises.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all construction and means of transport are equipped with evacuation equipment to ensure safe evacuation for disabled persons.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that emergency plans for disasters also take account of people with disabilities.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1650	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 6 on today's map. Case No. 1 was the statement from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1683	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Center Party and Red proposed no. 2 and 3, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 2 and 3 from Red. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Swedish Government’s audit is requested to review the role of the government in the appointment of the new Director of the Oil Fund, including the Authority’s exercise of the State Council, participation in the Back to University event from the Government and other relevant aspects of the Riksrevision to be verified.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the Governor of the Central Bank in the case of the appointment of Nicolai Tangen has complied with his service obligations as set out in Paragraphs 2 to 12(c) and/or (e) of the Central Bank Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1721	Alternatively, between the recommendation and proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Oil Fund is managed from Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e1764	During the debate, Mr Gülsvik presented a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal has been turned into a transmission proposal with the background to the debate. The suggestion sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the government ensure transitional arrangements to ensure that candidates who have commenced Bachelor’s training with a view to obtaining recognition as State-authorised auditor in accordance with today’s rules are respected.’; The President proposes that this proposal be sent to the Government without any justification of the facts. - It's a note. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should take the following decisions:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e3443	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e3453	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e3465	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the mandate of the Norway-to-Norway 2025 sample, in order to analyse and describe in particular the social and geographical distributional consequences of the pandemic and the crisis measures, and to support the proposed action in the long-term objectives of reducing inequality and high levels of organisation.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the composition of the ‘Norway to 2025’ sample so that the sample is made up of a broad and party-based sample, rather than an expert sample.’ These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e3505	In the event of an incursion during Tuesday's briefing, reference number 89 Document 12 Constitutional proposals were submitted on 163rd and 164th annual reports sent to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. [[2019-2020]] It is the right professional committee, but the document should be referred and sent to the committee when the Stortinget has merged after the next choice. We'll go to today's press releases. 1st@item: inlistbox Representative of Solfrid Lerbreck and Nicholas Wilkinson on ensuring assistance for children during long-term hospital stays (Document 8:44 S [[94]] [[2020-2021]] 2nd@item: inlistbox Representative proposal by the depositors Solfrid Lerbreck and Audun Lyssbakken to correct errors in the legislation that result in the loss of a pension (Document 8:45 S [[95]] [[2020-2021]] Samr. : No. 1 and 2 will be sent to the Labour and Social Committee. 3rd@item: inlistbox Representatives of the Landfill Representatives Nicholas Wilkinson, Karin Andersen and Freddy André Øvstegård to ensure equivalent and good rehabilitation services throughout the country (Document 8:43 S [[96]] [[2020-2021]] 4th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by Mr Nicholas Wilkinson, Mr Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Mr Lars Haltbrecken and Mr Karin Andersen on health care for all in Norway, also for paperless migrants and EEA citizens without health insurance (Document 8:46 S [[97]] [[2020-2021]] 5th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by Kjersti Toppe, Ole André Myhrvold, Jenny Klinge and Marit Knutsdatter Strand on a wide review of the supply of children and young people in need of help for mental distress and suffering, and measures to strengthen child and youth psychiatry in Norway (Document 8:47 S [[98]] [[2020-2021]] Samr. : No. 3 to 5 will be sent to the Health and Care Committee. 6th@item: inlistbox Representatives of the Landingsrepresentatives of Stein Erik Lauvås, Sverre Myrli and Kirsti Leirtrø that Statens vägvesen traffic station at Mysen in Inner Eastfold is maintained (Document 8:41 S [[99]] [[2020-2021]] Samr. : Sent to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 7th@item: inlistbox Representative’s proposal for the democratic anchoring of Norway’s work in the United Nations Security Council (Document 8:39 S) by Mr Björna Moxnes [[100]] [[2020-2021]] Samr. : Be sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e3559	We are continuing with the debate on substance. Eight. The next speaker is the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e3564	I would like to thank you for the debate. So I might encourage the representative Haltbrecken from SV and others to read the Red's proposal a little bit more thoroughly. It is therefore wrong to claim that Red proposes to unilaterally weaken the advantages of electric cars. No, Red will put a roof on the benefits and rather use the funds left over to expand environmentally friendly transport infrastructure as charging stations for electric cars throughout the country and better and cheaper public transport for most people. Instead of bottomless subsidies to luxury electric cars, this will provide a fairer environmental policy for most people. We save neither Norwegian industry nor the climate by throwing subsidies at those who have the highest income and live in central strata. So both the Progress Party and the Workers' Party have made themselves quite tall and dark in media play about introducing tax caps on expensive or heavy electric cars. I think that Hadia Tajik said it relatively concisely just a year ago, that there is a limit to how expensive cars the state should subsidize. And there are many who respond to the fact that there are large subsidies for the purchase of Porsche Taycan, Audi e-tron or the most expensive and heaviest Tesla model. It's about luxury cars that now get large subsidies, which are paid by most people. The Labour Party and the Advance Party have been clear that they want to do something about this, but are therefore opposed to our proposal, and I think that is strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e3571	Well, I've read the proposal from Red very well, I. There's nothing there about increasing the fees on the fossil cars, the big fossil luxury cars. It may not be a problem for Red that the fossil luxury car Porsche Cayenne has become significantly cheaper in recent years. A proposal is promoted that will unilaterally increase the cost of zero-emission cars, without at the same time making the fossil cars in the same segment even more expensive, to ensure that the electric car wins the competition. If Red had meant it, they could have gone into the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Labour Party, because it ensures that the electric car will win the competition in the future. We are now standing, as I said in my post, in front of a green industrial revolution in Norway, where we are investing in battery plants to deliver batteries to zero-emission cars around the world. We are in front of a solid bet country and beach around that will be of great importance for the work on cutting emissions from road traffic. I note that instead, with its proposal, Red wants to strengthen the fossil car industry rather than to support the green industrial revolution that we are now witnessing in Norway. My final score from now on is quite good: what we are left with is increased emissions of greenhouse gases and fewer green industrial jobs in Norway. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e3578	The representative Bears Moxnes has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e3583	Now the halter hasn't done the homework. We are voting in favour of the proposal to which it refers, and so is the fact that in our alternative budget we increase the CO 2 tax, so that we do it more expensive with the most polluting cars. Our main effort to strengthen the green industry is to secure investments in the billions class to bring up new industries in our country that are renewable, environmentally friendly and create jobs and housing around the country. And then our proposal is to invest some of the oil wealth in just a new Norwegian industry domestically. It is good if SV gradually comes to support our proposal. Indeed, a lot of capital is needed to raise new industries, which will not necessarily provide private capital for that kind of purpose. And then we're not completely class blind either. We see that giving so much subsidies to the richest, who have the most expensive and the largest electric cars, also has a class side, which the UK should probably think a little bit about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e3595	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e3600	When we are about to build a green industry that supports the efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions, it is important that we contribute to the creation of a market for the goods they produce. It is important that we contribute to the creation of a market for the batteries that the battery factory in South Africa will produce. Red's proposal, which is one-sided to increase the taxes on electric cars and not increase the fees on fossil cars even more, counters such a commitment. I am pleased to hear that Red will also vote for SV's proposal, but they should have drawn their own proposal, which is only to increase emissions of harmful greenhouse gases and put boilers in the way of an industrial investment in zero-emission solutions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e3607	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-05.ana.ud400e3613	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
