ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e71	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e76	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Red on participation in the 'Back to University' event of public institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e81	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 4 will be treated as a whole. The cases relate to the second processing of laws and apply to the legislative decisions 82 to 85.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e133	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e147	Gender policy statement 2020 provides a status in promoting equality and diversity in all sectors. The presentation is about work, education, culture and themes such as discrimination, violence, health and international cooperation. The last few weeks have changed everyday life and our lives. This also affects gender equality in Norway. On 12 March, we introduced some of the most stringent measures that Norway has experienced in peacetime. Many of the areas I want to talk about in this presentation are severely affected by the coronary apathy and measures. It will take time for us to know the impact of the measures and the impact of the pandemic on equality and diversity. Therefore, the statement does not capture consequences as a result of the strict measures, but I would nevertheless like to look at some of the areas in the light of the corona situation. The government has launched a series of national measures for employment, health and care, culture, school and education and international relations. In the future, we need information on how the pandemic affects equality between women and men, the situation of people with disabilities, of bias, of minorities and not least of violence. I am concerned about the consequences of closed schools and kindergartens and quarantine and isolation rules for those who are subjected to domestic violence. Research to identify the effects of these areas may be relevant in the future and necessary to develop targeted counter-measures. Data and statistics are therefore important for effective response. We have a good starting point for continuing to work with an equal society. Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. For the third year in a row, we're number. 2 in the world. The difference between women and men is even smaller in 2019 than it was in 2018. That's good. The government’s aim is to ensure that everyone participates in equal opportunities in Norway. And as Minister of Gender Equality, I want to fight for freedom, for community and for the possibility of living a free life in the city and built throughout the country – regardless of sexual orientation, gender, age, level of function, social background, ethnicity, religion or where you live. The labour market is very central to achieving equality. We have therefore strengthened the obligation of activity and presentation in the Equality and Discrimination Act. All employers shall work actively, targeted and planned to promote equality and prevent discrimination. They shall prevent harassment, sexual harassment and gender-based violence and look at recruitment, pay and working conditions, promotion, development opportunities, organisation and the possibility of combining work and family life. All the public and the largest private employers must also monitor pay broken down by sex and the use of voluntary part-time work. It also applies to public authorities. Public sector bodies must assess the impact of gender equality in all their work. The obligation of activity and presentation is therefore an important tool that enables us to assess the gender impact of the measures taken in the fight against the coronary apathy as well. We're the number. 2 in the world, but anyway -- we have to do more. Everyone is going to participate in the same Norway – all of them! We know that both women and men have important gender equality challenges. Let me mention some of them: We are facing a global crisis that requires rapid decisions by national authorities in all countries. In this situation, it is important that we pay attention to the fact that action and assistance take all those who need it, and that no one falls outside. That is why we need to assess the gender impact of the measures we are taking. In addition to gender, age, ethnic background, disability and other grounds for discrimination are something we need to be aware of. We must fight violence in close relationships. This violence is increasing, and the numbers of darkness are high. We will continue to work to detect and prevent abuses against people with disabilities and other vulnerable adults and children. We will contribute to the creation of a more diverse art and cultural life, a diverse sport and voluntary sector, we will work for less gender-based education and working life – it is particularly important to have more men in women-dominated industries and vice versa. We need to increase the participation of migrant women in work because income gives economic autonomy and better integration into society. We're going to work for more female top managers. It is in the top positions that economic decisions are taken, and women must be included. We're going to fight negative social control, because it limits the opportunities to participate in society through education, work and voluntary engagement. Negative social control not only imprisons us physically but also mentally. We're going to work to change gender-specific titles to gender-neutral titles in all countries' businesses. We need to pay more attention to age discrimination and much more. The labour market is hit hard under the corona pandemic. The world is closing down, and it affects an open and export-oriented economy like ours. The oil price has fallen dramatically, and measures against the pandemic have major economic consequences. I would like to briefly mention a few of the dozen measures in the field of working life that have been put in place to deal with the coronary situation: compensation for employees, including students support to self-employed and freelancers billion package for entrepreneurs and growers The labour market in Norway is gender-divided, and we do not yet know how this crisis will affect this in the future. All 85 pst. by Norwegian workers working in a profession dominated by either men or women. The gender-based labour market has consequences for gender differences in wages, employment, working time, career development and inequality. Training choices are not taken in a vacuum. For each individual, expectations about the kind of education and profession appropriate to each individual may limit the choice of careers. At the social level, it has, among other things: impact on access to labour. In the future, we are dependent on a more flexible labour market. For example, SSB projections of the labour demand in the health and care sector show that the need will increase. There are still few men working in the main professions, such as primary school teachers, nurses or health professionals. Major changes therefore require men to enter non-traditional professions. We see that the challenges that remain are heavy to change and require increased efforts. That's why we're going to put forward a new strategy next year. The goal is simple: we need to get more men into women-dominated professions and more women into human-dominated professions. Themes such as women and top management and immigrant women's participation in working life are also important themes. The Korona crisis has led to a dramatic increase in unemployment, primarily in the form of lay-offs, but also to an increase in the number of normal unemployed. It is uncertain what will be the further development, but it is assumed that the unemployment rate will decrease slightly again as the strict measures for the protection of infection are gradually eased. To this extent, these measures have given a greater increase in the unemployment rate among women than among men. It has to be seen in the context of women being overrepresented in parts of the service sector that were first closed. Gradually, the impact has spread to larger parts of the economy, and this has led to an increase in the proportion of men among those who have been outsourced and the differences have decreased. Now there are about the same number of unemployed women and men with an unemployment rate on the other side of 10 pst. by the labour force. The government's objective is a safe and flexible labour market with high employment and low unemployment. Women’s high labour participation, together with a number of other characteristics of the Norwegian work model, has contributed to Norway’s higher economic growth, higher employment rates and lower unemployment than many other countries over the past 25 years. Norwegian women are at the top of the world in terms of participation in work. Until the pandemic was 75 pst. by women aged 20 to 66 years employed. For men, the number was 81 pst. of the same age group. Occupational participation among immigrant women was clearly lower. The proportion of immigrant women employed was 63 pst. and 71 pst. among men of the same age group, 20–66 years. There is a wide variation in participation by country of origin of women, i.e. background country. However, a very positive move is that Norwegian-born women with immigrant parents, aged 30–34, work much higher than immigrant women of the same age. The government's aim is to increase the number of immigrant women in the labour market. It is not only good integration policy, but it is also good equality policy. There are several reasons why participation is lower for women with a migrant background. Something can be due to prejudices and stereotypical perceptions. Discrimination and lack of recognition of qualifications may exist on the part of the employer. It may also be due to a lack of relevant skills for immigrant women, including lack of Norwegian knowledge, lack of access to job-related social networks, expectations of girls and negative social control. Cultural and religious barriers can also hinder participation in the labour market. Culture shall never prevent participation in the labour market. This is what the government will fight against. The fight against negative social control should definitely end all politicians and all social actors throughout Norway. The government is taking more steps to remove the barriers and get more immigrant women into the labour market. Let me give you some examples. We are reforming integration policy. We are reforming the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social knowledge. We introduce mandatory lifelong training courses for all participants and parental guidance courses for those participating in the introduction programme who have children. We're going on with Jobjessen. By 2020, it's set at 85.3 million. kr to this scheme. Today is only 44 pst. by persons who declare that they have a disability in work. There are small differences between women and men. In the case of working hours, women with disabilities work considerably more part-time compared to men with disabilities. The commitment to sustainable work, VTA, is one of the main priorities of the government in the field of labour and welfare policy. More people in full-time are involved in securing sustainability in our society. More and more women are working full-time. Immigrants, both men and women, work more often than the population. This is due to the fact that they work in industries where part-time jobs are common. At the same time, the possibility of part-time work can contribute to the participation of more immigrant women in the labour market. There are large differences in working hours by industry. Most in part-time work is provided in municipal health and care services. Here are about two out of three part-time employees – these are 2018 figures. In the process of raising the full-time share of women, we have taken important steps on the part of the government with the Stortinget. With effect from 1 January, all public and the largest private employers shall monitor the use of voluntary part-time work. The aim is to promote a full-time culture and equal opportunities in working life. When we introduced the third in the parental leave, it was also expected that when parents share care and absenteeism from work, the pattern of working life will also change over time. The figures from 2019 show a clear trend: fathers increase their output. It also means that fathers took out a larger proportion of all parental leave days than before. The Parties cooperate on a full-time culture in the health and care sector because it is essential to ensure quality, improve the working environment and provide adequate services. Employers have an obligation to work for equality, which also includes wages and salaries. Fortunately, the difference between women and men’s average wages has also decreased since 2018. Now women make 87.6 pst. of men’s wages and salaries when we include both full-time and part-time employees in 2019. The main explanation of the difference is the sex-shared labour market, i.e. that women work more often in occupations and industries with lower average wages than in which many men work. Wage discrimination is prohibited by law in Norway. Despite this, it has been slow to reduce pay differentials between women and men. Therefore, all the public and the largest private employers are now required to carry out wage-fixing by gender. Transparency of wages and salaries is fundamental to identifying pay differentials and barriers to equal pay. Gender-based educational choices also have consequences for the labour market, and these are trends that are difficult to reverse. Two thirds of the gender divide in the labour market can be explained by gender-based educational choices, i.e. the educational choices of young people and young adults have a significant impact on the subsequent gender divide of the labour market. Fortunately, women have, increasingly, entered into formerly male-dominated and gender-balanced educations. This applies, for example: law, economics, administration and medicine. At the same time, we see that within e.g. Technology remains a clear minority of women. Digitalisation will have a major impact on future skills needs, and women must be involved here. Men have not changed study choices accordingly. Therefore, relatively few men still work in the main professions, such as primary school teachers, nurses or health professionals. Major changes therefore require men to enter non-traditional professions. Only every five applicants for pediatric and primary teacher training for the youngest children are men. In the next few years, Norway will need many new teachers, especially for 1–7. steps. To get the best, we need to recruit from the entire population. That's why we have to get hold of the male teachers. A report on reasons for lack of gender balance among primary school teachers points out that internal motivation and experience from working with children are among those that motivate men to become teachers for the youngest in school and kindergarten. It is recommended to provide boys with experience in working with children and allow young men to meet role models that have made gender-specific educational choices. The government is now testing this in a major project directed by the Hojskulen in the West. Health subjects are the largest education category in the country. The nurse’s study is clearly the largest health education. Only 15 pst. of the students in nursing school are men. Next week we will receive a report with recommendations on measures to recruit more boys and men for health and care training. The report suggests that boys and men largely associate health and care professionals with relatively low status, problems related to the working environment and conditions. Nearly half of the asked boys at high school and in high school perceive that the nursing profession is best suited for women. In addition, many boys seem to have little knowledge of the sector and what opportunities work in the health and care sector actually offers. In addition, we are now being investigated and developed a project based on a similar model as Girls and Technology to recruit boys and men in the health and care sector. There are several professions that are at the forefront now under the coronary apathy, but one stands out with a particularly important social critical function, namely the nurses. I hope that will lead to more men just choosing this profession. Only 29 pst. of the students who applied for technology or real science as their first choice at university or college in 2018 were women. Therefore, since 2016, the government has granted State grants to Girls and Technology. In 2020, the grant will amount to 3.5 million. to increase the proportion of girls in technology at all levels of the education system. Art and cultural life play an important role in well-functioning democracies. These are are arenas that contribute to community, to inclusion, to tolerance and participation in society. At the same time, we know that these are are arenas where not everyone feels that they are included or represented. Over the years, the Ministry of Culture and the Council of Culture have worked on cultural diversity, in particular through the project including cultural life in the Nordic region. We're continuing our efforts. In 2020, the Culture Council has been entrusted with the task of being a national coordinator for increased diversity, inclusion and participation in the cultural sector. In 2020, we will allocate a total of 24.5 million. to various institutions, actions and projects in the field of culture to stimulate diversity, integration and the fight against poverty. All residents of Norway shall have equal opportunities to contribute and participate in the community. And, fortunately, Norway is at the forefront of policies and rights for LHBTIQs. However, many LHBTIQs face barriers to social participation. We also see that many have negative attitudes to the skeletons, or LHBTIQs. The current Government Action Plan on Security, Diversity and Transparency expires this year. A mid-term and final evaluation of the plan has been undertaken. The evaluation will be important to assess the efforts we will be making in the future to strengthen the living conditions and rights of gliding people. Before Easter, the government presented a proposal for a change to the penal code to strengthen the criminal protection of trans-nationals. The proposal seeks to include gender identity or gender expression as a basis for discrimination in several provisions of the criminal law. Furthermore, it is proposed that the term ‘homofile orientation’ should be replaced by ‘sexual orientation’, in order to clarify that apiaries are covered by the protection of criminal law. This is an important boost to the protection of discrimination. Persons with disabilities face barriers to full equality. Some do not complete the education cycle, some do not meet their needs for health care, some have difficulties getting into the labour market, and some do not participate in organisational life and activities. It's kind of dramatic. In a 2016 report, a total of 36 pp. by persons with disabilities who have been subjected to infringing statements. Four out of ten people who have been exposed to hate rings say they stay at home, and they hesitate to go to certain places. Three out of ten say that they are allowed to speak publicly. Another report from 2019 shows that there is little knowledge of discrimination against people with disabilities in society, because it is only 6 pst. who believe that persons with disabilities are subjected to hat talk. This is unsustainable. There is a need for increased awareness of the problem. We know that adults with disabilities and developmental disabilities are more vulnerable to violence and abuse than other groups. This applies in particular to women. SecurityEst is a new and comprehensive model for dealing with suspected violence and abuse against vulnerable adults. SecureEst has been tested in 12 municipalities. The number of cases in these municipalities is sixfold, and 70 pst. of the exposed are women. It's alarming. In 2018, the government launched a strategy for gender equality for people with disabilities. It was followed up by an action plan, a society for all – equality, democracy and human rights, in 2019. There are measures to ensure safety and security, but also in the areas of education, work, health and care and culture and leisure. The ambition is a coherent and coordinated effort and effective implementation of government policies in this area. During the coronary apathy, many of these challenges have been exacerbated. Many are at risk, they are affected by the suspension or absence of treatment and follow-up of healthcare, there are assistance and BPA challenges, and students in need of organisation do not necessarily receive the services they need. The Korona puts us all to the test. However, there has been a positive development in the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities since the 1990s. At the same time, it is particularly worrying that developments in some fields, as a proportion of people with disabilities at work, have declined. We are now working on a big message on how to meet the needs and rights of people with disabilities. Important points in the notification are the right to independent living, the right to housing and the right to education, work, health care, the right to protection against exploitation, violence and abuse, the right to family life, the right to culture, leisure activities and the pursuit of life views. Universal design is necessary for persons with disabilities and facilitates everyday life for all, including: for elderly and young children’s parents with a baby carriage. This is why the government is following up the work on universal design, and we are presenting a new action plan in this area. The new plan shall take effect from 2021. There are people in Norway who feel afraid to show their religious or ethnic affiliation, people who are afraid to express their opinions. Racism and discrimination, as such, are destructive to society, but also to the lives of individuals. The Government’s action plan against racism and discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity and religion has actions in nine different areas, such as: debate and democracy, education, housing, work and the criminal justice chain. Negative attitudes towards Muslims are widespread in our society, unfortunately. In fact, research shows that the entire 30 pst. the population is prejudiced against Muslims. The government has now started work on an action plan against discrimination and hatred against Muslims. The aim is to prevent and prevent discrimination and facilitate dialogue and exchange. The government involves voluntary teams and associations in the work of the plan. There are still pronounced prejudices against Jews in Norway. ‘Jewish’ is a common shell word, and some choose to hide their Jewish identity in order to avoid negative sanctions. Since the 2000s, Jewish targets have been under attack. The Jews in Norway represent a cultural and religious minority of about 1,500 to 2000 people and are very vulnerable when antisemitism is expressed. The government will renew and continue the anti-Semitism action plan by 2020 and the Jewish minority will be involved in the work. Equality and discrimination also affect the elderly. The government follows up ‘More years — more opportunities — the strategy for an age-friendly Norway’ with a programme to help older people participate in working and social life. The government has recently promoted the law on the elderly representative of the Stortinget and has appointed the country’s first senior representative, who will start to promote the interests of the elderly in all areas of society. We're going to have a society where freedom of expression is strong, and where the threshold for participation in the public debate is low. Many different groups in the Norwegian community are exposed to hot or hateful comments. Politicians are not spared this either. The government therefore has a strategy against hateful expressions. This applies on all grounds of discrimination. In the strategy, there are many actions in different areas. The Government has also recently reduced a freedom of expression Commission, which is to assess the framework and conditions for freedom of expression on a broad basis. Violence against and harassment of women is one of our greatest equality challenges. The many targeted efforts of the government help to prevent and combat actions that restrict women’s lives in particular. For persons who are subjected to psychological or physical violence from partners or other members of the family, the coronary apathy may be particularly difficult. Disease prevention, home quarantine and isolation can quickly increase the level of conflict in the home, often also related to drugs and economic and health concerns. Loss of important social networks and support for the family may further exacerbate the situation. Several of the major hospitals around the country report that they have investigated far fewer children exposed to violence and abuse than is usual. The police are now preparing weekly intelligence reports. It was already pointed out in the first report that the presence of physical and mental violence in close relationships was likely to increase, especially if the situation was prolonged. In vulnerable families, problems are likely to be exacerbated. So far, a decrease in the number of police reports of violence in close relations is reported compared to the same period last year. One possible explanation may be that victims of violence are less able to report to the police or to the auxiliary equipment on their own. Unless socialised, it is assumed that even fewer people are able to detect that adults are being abused in close relationships. To address this situation, the police have taken action of a more proactive nature. A good example is the enhanced cooperation that police districts are now establishing with municipalities on measures to remedy the situation. In terms of longer-term efforts, we have several action plans with comprehensive measures. Firstly, let me mention the new action plan on violence in close relations, which is due to come in June 2020. In that action plan, on violence in close relations, we need to further develop our work through prevention, assistance and protection, criminal prosecution, knowledge and competences. In the action plan, we will also have a separate part on violence and abuse in Sami areas. The need for effort is great. Based on registered police reports and nationwide scale surveys, we see an increase in family abuse, rape or attempted rape and violence in close relationships. We have set down a sample to look at the extent and, where appropriate, the manner in which failure has occurred in the management of public services prior to the partner killing cases. Persons with a Sami background report that they are more violent than non-Samian people in the same area. In the municipality of Tysfjord, for example. exposed a large amount of violence and sexual assault. Police and auxiliaries lack competence in Sami languages and culture. Secondly, rape is a serious problem of equality – crime first and foremost, but also a problem of equality. Women are most often exposed, and most of the rapes are committed by men. Rape restricts women's freedom and could limit lifelong learning, education and participation in the labour market. Rape is also a major public health problem and deprives women of the opportunity to live the life they want to live in freedom. In the Action Plan on Rape, there are five areas of action with a total of 33 different actions. Priority is given to prevention, easily accessible assistance and good quality research actions. The third effort in the fight against violence is the escalation plan against violence and abuse. In that we focus our efforts on young people. We introduce educational material on violence-related issues in kindergarten and school in Norwegian and Sami languages. We put in place the training programme "SNAKKE", which improves the ability of adults to detect violence. We support the establishment of a low-threshold phone for parents. We strengthen the provision of treatment for people at risk of sexual assault and for those convicted of sexual assault. It shall be established, inter alia: a low-threshold and comprehensive treatment provision for people who are afraid of committing sexual abuse against children. We are strengthening research, both on sexual abuse and on the crisis centre offer. The fourth effort in the series is that everyone should be able to live a free and independent life. Negative social control and honorary violence are serious interventions in individual lives and can pose major health challenges. This applies not least to girls who are exposed to sexual mutilation and forced marriage. It's a little random, but on this day today, it's exactly 24 years since I joined Nadia. It was love at first glance, at least from my side. It was still a fight to get each other because we did not belong to the same caste. We had to hide on the other side of town in order not to be seen – one could be discovered because the negative social control was there. Love was not ours to decide, but we won. Today, too, many experience negative social control, and many express love because their parents have different demands on their children. Therefore, on 17 February this year, the government decided to establish a new action plan, Freedom from Negative Social Control and Honor-related Violence, which will follow up the current action plan. This is important work. Equality and self-determination are important. Prosecution is an assault in which an abducted individual's autonomy in his own life. The same thing can be said if the very expectation of marriage many people experience, that marriage is the purpose of life. It is clear that in some communities this view can be seen as a form of social control. The fact that you have to marry to be able to move for yourself or away from the family is clearly negative social control. The Government shall work at all levels to ensure freedom and autonomy for all citizens of Norway in their own lives. Sexual harassment is a major problem for women's employment opportunities. The Nordic Ministers for Gender Equality have therefore adopted a multiannual research effort on sexual harassment in working life in the Nordic countries. The establishment of a lowthreshold service is an important milestone in the fight against sexual harassment. The government will ensure effective enforcement of cases of sexual harassment and has therefore established a low threshold for dealing with sexual harassment. Discrimination subjects are given authority to enforce cases of sexual harassment and to impose reprisals and damages. In addition, the guidance and assistance provided by the gender equality and discrimination ombudsman has been strengthened, because we want these matters to be resolved at the lowest possible level. This is a work that is in progress. Health: We're in a very special situation. The Covid-19 virus is declared a pandemic by the World Health Organisation. The outbreak of corona also poses significant challenges for all parts of the healthcare system. The Research Council and the Health Regions announced up to 30 million. kr for research on the coronary virus. The amount was increased in April to 70 million. kr after Trond Mohn Stiftelsen and the Cancer Association joined the team. With new priorities in the Research Council, there is an additional 30 million open. kr for public-private cooperation. We need more knowledge of women's health and gender differences in health. That is why we are continuing to invest in this topic through the Norwegian Research Council for several tens of millions of dollars. And I know that the president is also particularly concerned about this. We also want to set up a public health sample from a gender perspective. An increasing proportion of young girls report mental distress. The Public Health Institute has been given a mandate to better understand factors affecting the mental health and quality of life of children and young people. We will launch an action plan to prevent suicide. Men are overrepresented in suicide statistics in all age groups, except among the youngest. The Public Health Institute has been entrusted with the task of producing a knowledge overview of suicides among men. We know that women take on more of the heaviest care tasks in their families. This applies in general, but especially in crisis situations that we are currently in. That's one of the reasons why women work more part-time than men. The government is now working on its own related strategy and action plan, which we aim to present in 2020. CORE Top Leader Barometer maps the gender distribution in the boards and top management groups of the largest companies after turnover in Norwegian business. A new CORE Top Conductor Barometer is under construction. This is a key knowledge to follow developments at the top. The Institute for Social Research carries out a research project to propose increasing the proportion of female top managers in the business community. In the state sector, there has been a steady increase in the proportion of female leaders, top managers and other leaders in recent years, from 45pst. in 2012 to 54 pst. in 2018. If we only look at the top level of the state in 2019, the proportion of women in the departments was 37 pst., while in the directorates there was 48 pst. upper management women. This is good -- it's going in the right direction. The share of women among directors in the companies, mentioned in the state’s ownership report 2018, was 43 p.m. at the end of March 2019 versus 36 pst. in March 2014. There is still a clear human dominance in top management in companies where the state owns. By the end of 2018, the proportion of women among executive directors was 29 pst. The average share of women in the company's management group was 40 pst. Only one of three entrepreneurs is women. The fact that fewer women start out as entrepreneurs means that society does not succeed enough in taking the whole population into use in innovation and value creation. This is why the government launched an action plan to get more women entrepreneurs, with 13 measures to make it easier for women to start their own business and make it grow. We have a package of five billion. kr to entrepreneurs and growers ready in connection with the coronary apathy. The package will contribute to new business activity and prevent unnecessary lay-offs. The measures we are now taking should ensure that we have a sustainable and adaptable business even when the crisis is over. Innovation and business start-ups will drive the economy forward and create well-being and growth in the coming years. Infective measures affect many women in the service professions, including many women who are holders of small businesses, and may lose what they have invested. These are issues that we in the government take with us. The global situation of gender equality is a picture of contradictions and paradoxes. On the one hand, we see increasing resistance in some countries and regions to women's rights, especially to women's reproductive and sexual rights. On the other hand, other areas and countries show that gender equality is on the rise by targeting authorities and women’s own rights struggles to increase women’s ability to participate in society on the same footing as men. In this complex landscape, the Action Plan on Freedom, Power and Opportunities sets the framework for Norway’s international action in the field of equality. The plan is extended for this downtime period. The government has set a concrete target for assistance for gender equality purposes. Half of all bilateral assistance shall have equality as its main or sub-objectives. This is expected to produce significantly better results from the assistance for all. This year was to be a brand year for global equality. It has been 25 years since the 1995 Beijing Women's Conference, where the Beijing Platform was adopted. The Beijing action plan contains binding objectives and measures to strengthen women’s economic, social and political rights. The 25th anniversary was to be marked during the Women's Commission in March. However, the women’s commission was severely reduced due to the coronary apathy, and I was not allowed to travel to give Norway’s presentation. Important international equality meetings under the Generation Equality Forum have also been postponed to 2021. We do not yet know whether it will be possible to mark the 20th anniversary of Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. What we're afraid of is that the coronary apathy can give a very serious and long-lasting setback to women's rights and international equality work. Economic downturns and strict covid-19 measures can go beyond human rights, not least the rights of girls and women. The pandemic may also affect the financial security of women in the long term. Women work to a greater extent in the informal sector, in part-time jobs and in low-paid professions and are therefore particularly vulnerable to poverty. Women work in the front line of the healthcare system and are therefore particularly vulnerable to infection. Women also have the greatest burden of care in their homes. Increased care and economic pressure may force girls to drop out of school with serious personal and social consequences in the long term. The UN reports an increase in violence against women during covid-19. Many women and children live more closely on the perpetrator under isolation, lockdown and economic insecurity. The need for protection is increasing, while the relief services become less accessible. We know that unwanted pregnancies, maternal mortality and harmful customs, such as child marriage, are increasing in crises. That's about. 30,000 girls under the age of 18 who get married away every day. It was before the crisis, and we know that the numbers are increasing during the crisis. The pandemic can have major consequences for women and girls' sexual and reproductive health and rights. Quarantine and the shutdown of healthcare have implications for pregnancy care, safe births, access to contraception, vaccines and access to safe abortions. Norway is therefore systematically and generally working to include the gender perspective in its response to the virus globally. We have close contact with civil society, which through its partner organisations knows best about the situation locally. Education is a key priority of government development policy. Education for girls is one of the most important investments we can make to promote sustainable development and to promote gender equality. That girls go to school contributes, among other things. improving the health of mothers and children, contributing to economic growth and reducing early marriages. The global health crisis we are now experiencing also has consequences for the education of girls. Experiences from individual countries during the Ebola crisis in 2014 showed that girls became more vulnerable to sexual exploitation and violence, early pregnancy and early marriage when the school closed. It is therefore important to maintain the focus on girls’ education, and this will continue to be the main priority of the government in the future. The right of girls and women to determine their own bodies and lives is essential for achieving equality and also for achieving the sustainability goals. The marking of the 25th anniversary of the Cairo Action Programme in Nairobi last year was a major victory in promoting sexual and reproductive health and rights, SRHR. Norway committed to contribute more than 9.6 billion. kr to SRHR for the next six years. Plus 1 billion is going to be right over there. kr for protection against sexualised violence and sexual and reproductive health services in humanitarian emergencies between 2019 and 2021. Gender mutilation and child marriage are not just gross human rights violations that have major consequences for those involved. It also imposes great costs on society, and it deprives girls and women of their most fundamental rights. In autumn, the government launched a new international strategy for the fight against harmful customs. For the next four years, it's set at 760 million. D on the assistance budget for this work. In 2020, as mentioned, 20 years have passed since the UN Security Council decided that women and men are hit differently by war and conflict, and that women must take part in peace and security efforts if we are to succeed. Norway emphasises the rights and participation of women in the broad range of our peace and security exposure. I look forward to continuing the important international work on the rights of girls and women, not least in the light of the coronary apathy. Norway is a champion of international equality. We need to use this position to focus attention on how the pandemic affects girls and women in particular and to contribute to targeting everyone. During and after the pandemic, it becomes essential to ensure women's economic participation in order to avoid excessive economic setbacks and over-reduction of poverty. Allow me to be a little personal in the end. The journey for my own part has been long, from a municipal dwelling on Ila to a place around the King's table. When I grew up, values like equality or full freedom of expression were not what I reflected around. Neither when I started the law school, did I think that I was going to or could become a minister for equality. As I grew older, I understood that there is an obvious link between the freedom of the individual on the one hand and the development of society on the other, because in that freedom there are also the possibilities of society. That's why the equality struggle is a struggle for all of us, a struggle to remove thresholds and tear down barriers. Internationally, Norway has a high level of equality. This is not something that has come of itself. Equality is a result of several decades of work and barriers that have been broken. We still have more challenges left to achieve full gender equality. But if a disadvantaged, conservative religious boy from Ila can become Minister for Gender Equality in Norway, then we know that it is possible! It is possible through education, through value added, through the public debate to achieve equality also among those who are not born into equal families. We can actually succeed if we have a society where the opportunities are open to everyone – there's something to bring with us. We show way in the process of promoting equality, and we have to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e382	The President proposes that the presentation of the Minister of Culture and Gender Equality be debated at a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e398	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e405	Everyone seems to agree that everyone should live safely and well in their own home. In Norway, the situation is quite good, but not for everyone. The question is, should we continue to be satisfied that someone is going to struggle with what is one of the most central things in our lives, namely home, where we are going to be safe, and which is the framework around everything else we do in life. Today, Norway may have the most deregulated housing market in Europe. It works too many, and in many ways, but it doesn't work perfectly at all, and at least not for those who have bad advice or other problems in their lives. The proposal discussed by the Municipal Committee is precisely about that, whether there is no need for more than a purely market-driven housing market. The Committee does not agree, but SV believes that we need to find out if we can have a larger, non-commercial housing market both on the ownership and rental side to ensure that everyone can live safely in their own home. It is not that the ownership of Norwegian policies has been built up by market forces — not at all. The good housing market in Norway was built up with quite strong state and municipal regulations and with strong state policy measures and money. The house bank was a very central instrument in this, with far greater resources compared to the monetary value of the date than now, and the housing cooperative played a very large role. Then there have been changes after what I think most people have agreed to, but what has happened in recent years is that the housing social subsidies, especially from this government, have been greatly reduced. The housing stock is an example of that. The other grants through the House Bank are an example of this. If everyone is to live safely in their own home, there is a need for some regulation that meets social and social needs, and there is a need for increased subsidies to the housing market to correct the social imbalances we see today. Government housing policy needs to be changed. It can no longer be based on a purely market-based model. It does not work well enough in the big cities and also has problematic aspects in the districts, where construction costs are higher than the sales value of the dwelling in many places. Increased housing construction in general is important, but it does not solve this problem alone. There is a need to develop non-commercial dwellings both in the ownership and rental markets, so that everyone can live safely, that living areas are varied and accessible to all, and not least that there is freedom of choice also for people with medium and low incomes. I'm a little surprised that those who talk a lot about freedom of choice in many areas care so little about freedom of choice for those who have poor advice and need a safe place to live. Reasonable dwellings shall ensure a wide range of populations and individuals with greater choice and more alternatives. Such dwellings could be established with different levels of public funding, regulation and support. It is also with great amazement that I have registered the government's resistance to extending the start-up loan scheme, so that both young people and all those we are now talking about as heroes in this Korona crisis, all the everyday heroes, the low-wage people who can hardly afford to buy an owner-occupied home – many of them don't have the equity required either – will have the opportunity to get a start-up loan from the House Bank and get into the real estate market with a loan portfolio they can serve because their wages are good enough for that. When they have to pay high rent in year after year, they cannot afford to save. Then they are left with zero housing capital and have paid a lot of money without having to take part in the housing market that SV believes everyone will be able to do. Changes to the Planning and Building Act are also needed to enable municipalities to ensure a more varied living environment. I refer to the proposal that SV has in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e424	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e429	What does housing policy mean? What's the most important thing? What are people worried about? What problems should we solve for people who want a good housing? Is the answer to the challenges of the proposal we are discussing today? We don't mean it does. People are worried about the housing prices in the cities, and especially in Oslo. People are concerned that new housing is not being built enough in the districts. The industry is concerned that there is not enough housing in cities and around cities, and not least the industry is concerned about whether there will be enough work for the construction industry in the future. It's our job as politicians to give good answers to people's concerns. Housing forms together with work, education and health the four pillars of welfare. Norwegian housing policy has been successful. A place to live at an affordable price is crucial to being able to live a life of independence and good living. As many as possible shall own their own dwelling. It is a public responsibility to facilitate good quality housing for all. It is therefore an important political task to facilitate the construction of adequate housing. Both the State and the municipalities are responsible for the construction of dwellings and for the construction of varied dwellings of good quality. And the dwellings are going to be a place to live, not a speculation object. The difference between owning and renting owner-occupied dwellings is becoming an inequality factor in society. With today's housing prices in Oslo, buyers work hard to get into the housing market and buy their own home. Figures from the SSB show that fewer disadvantaged people can afford owner-occupied housing compared to the past. Fortunately, the Red-Green City Council in Oslo is in the process of exploring a third housing sector with reasonable housing for ordinary people. The plan is that by 2023 1000 new dwellings in the third housing sector will start in Oslo. I wish the government would make it easier for municipalities that want to bet on rental-to-owner models. The municipalities do this differently, but with a planning and building law which introduces the form of regulation, municipalities will be able to carry out different projects more easily so that more people can find their way into the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e448	With a slight exception, housing prices in Norway have risen continuously for 27 years. It presents challenges for many to enter the housing market. Although prices are now high, we must not forget that Norwegian housing policies work well overall. It has our political agreement that we should have favourable tax laws for housing, and over time there have been many owners in Norway. Eight out of ten own their own dwelling here in the country, and that number is far higher than in our neighboring countries. Once we've selected the owner line in Norway, it's supported by research that shows that a good, stable housing situation is very important for happiness in other areas as well. We also see that among families without their own housing, there are too many who are going to be difficult on the housing market for a long time. Bad housing conditions are negative for children and young people's education, and for health. The problems are not new, but they are complex. The Nordic countries have chosen different models for housing social policy. Some decades ago, the differences in housing policy in Norway and Denmark were small, both in terms of responses and challenges. Later, countries have different choices, based on different challenges and also political currents. A model from another country cannot be copied to Norwegian conditions without it. In Norway we chose to deregulate the housing market in the 1980s and 1990s, and we lifted the rent regulation. Almost all the homes that are being traded today are being traded in a free market. The solutions we have in the future must fit into this regime. Rental adjustments have been shown to lead to adverse effects, such as money below the table, and the creation of a non-commercial third housing sector has also been shown to create an unfortunate lock-in effect. Although high rates of housing in press areas can make the busses challenging, most of them do well in the housing market. This recognition has led the housing social field to target minorities, those who are characterised as being difficult to find in the housing market. Given this image, it did not appear to be targeted at introducing a model aimed at a wider group than those who actually have problems in the housing market. It is important that those who need assistance in order to obtain an appropriate building situation need to get it quickly. In the right, we also want people with difficulty to own their own homes. Various rental-to-owner models have been provided and facilities have been provided for start-up loans, start-up grants and other assistance to support bustaging for disadvantaged people. Start-up loans promote the ownership line by helping those with long-standing financing problems to own their own housing. In Norway, it's just that many people own their own housing, and fortunately we have few homeless people. It is the result of a long-standing, good housing policy, and we must ensure that housing social policy continues to be targeted and knowledge-based in the future. We want to continue the ownership line, and a bill on a non-commercial housing sector cannot be seen as a good solution to meet the challenges that we see related to the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e469	As the case spokesperson was about, I think everyone is thinking that it should be good to stay in Norway, but we have a slightly different view of what is the road there. Of course, Red, who has put forward this proposal for a representative, has a completely different model of what is a good housing market than the Progress Party has. Let me also correct in the introduction the impression the case spokesperson tried to create that the government, which was part of the Progress Party until recently, has managed to cut and change the housing social instruments. It's actually wrong. If one goes in and compares the permissions in the red-green period and today, a much larger part is allowed over the House Bank and into the supports than before. So it's not a good idea that we've had a cut line, but we've had a reinforcement and more targeting for those who need it the most. It's also interesting when we discuss housing policy based on Red's proposal, to see what Red has done in practice. Here in the capital has a hand on the steering wheel with a cooperation agreement for four years, and we already see the contours and the result of Red's influence, that it is regulated and built for a few dwellings where they have the possibility to influence. The main explanation that we have challenges is that it is regulated and built too few dwellings. We're concerned that the owner line is going to stand firm, that we're going to continue the policy we have, and we're happy that 82 pst. of all the north dwell in a dwelling which the household itself owns. We want to facilitate even more planning, even more construction, so that even more people can take part in that policy: owning their own housing. It's about the fact that we're forced to take action to make it easier to plan. It is now too heavy for municipalities to regulate, too many counter-participating authorities use unnecessary time, the legislation has been too complicated, and it is too expensive to plan and regulate. For this reason, more people, like the Progress Party, should be concerned that we should limit the possibilities of county municipalities and counties to be blocks of brakes. Despite the fact that state councils send letters to the statesmen, we see that they are brake blocks and an obstacle to planning and regulating enough housing. We need to do much more here, and we need to make sure that local democracy is allowed to plan and regulate more housing. It is also important that once people have a dwelling, we keep the tax pressure down. It is not that politicians – here in the Chamber or in the Municipal Council – should view a dwelling as a tax item, it is primarily a home. So we're forced to have an active policy that means that you don't have unreasonably high property taxes and municipal taxes for those who own a dwelling. For this reason, the Progress Party has been a driver to reduce the property tax to 5 per million, and we've also fought in a formulation that he's going down to 4 per million. We assume that the government follows the policy of the Progress Party and proposes a reduction of 4 per million in the municipal bill. So it's very important that we actually see the result, that the property tax goes down. There, I record a number of red-green vocabularies and local government figures that avoid the clear intention of Stortinget that the tax on property should be reduced, with re-entry and other creative ways of getting the money they think they should have. The money tells us that the municipalities are going to make it without, so we think that they're not going to look at the housing as a tax item, but as a home. So we want and have expectations that we will have an active policy on tax cuts too. When it comes to the proposals in question today, SV has put forward a proposal to sort out a third housing market. We don't think there is a good model – not for those who might want to participate in that model either. We know that they will then be locked inside a system, they will not be allowed to participate in the rise that their own homes will receive, and it will be difficult to move to another place when they get new needs, more kids or life situations change. We don't want people to be stuck in the situation where they're locked in. Therefore, we will vote against the SV proposal. We didn't think it was a good idea to figure out the model for Red. What will help is what we have been involved in, and there we will continue our dialogue with the government in order to reduce the requirements of the law on the construction, reduce the influence of the statesmen and keep down the building, planning and building costs, so that most people can still own their own homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e488	The central party believes that housing policy is a well-being in line with, for example: health and education. A safe and stable housing situation is a necessary framework for all human lives. Housing policy is important for well-being and development and therefore needs to be raised and strengthened. The ownership line is strong in Norway and should be continued in such a way that it can own its own housing as much as possible. It is also necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the rental market for those who, for shorter or longer periods of time, are best served in the rental of dwellings. The situation of many young people, first-time start-ups, lonely and not least single-parents is difficult in areas with strong price pressure. For some it will also be difficult in the districts, when the market value is low and you want to build a dwelling. It is also a major challenge that many disadvantaged people and those with special needs have a lack of housing and that the homeless group is not reduced. It is therefore very central that different solutions adapted to local circumstances should be considered, which can help people to buy their own housing. At the same time, caution must be exercised with changes in arrangements and regulations that may lead to overheating in the housing market, which in turn will increase prices. There are different needs and situations in the housing market in different parts of the country. The scheme must be able to help more people get into the housing market throughout the country, without the level of prices in press areas making it impossible for ordinary employees to settle there. The centre party considers that it is appropriate to consider introducing a two-tier start-up loan scheme, where young people without sufficient equity but with a ability to pay can receive start-up loans from the Husbank. It is absolutely central that the two-fold should not lead to a weakening of the start-up facility for disadvantaged people, as it is today, and therefore to a two-fold division of the scheme. It is therefore essential that the Husbanken framework be strengthened in this respect. Housing policy is an area affected by centralisation in other areas. When jobs and services are moved from district to centre, and economic policy makes resources go from district to centre, the pressures on the housing market in cities and agglomerations also increase. As a result, people with normal incomes need to borrow more and more in order to buy a dwelling, and it becomes more difficult for young people to enter the housing market. Centralisation of services and jobs and reduced opportunities for district municipalities to develop an offer in their municipality contribute to providing leadership for where people can live. The provision of services, taxes and transport services is therefore central to the spread of housing. By having a policy that allows people to live and work throughout the country, the pressure on the housing market will also decrease. At the same time, a housing policy will be part of a whole that allows us to take advantage of all the opportunities offered by this country. With even more efficient transport solutions, good commuting arrangements, decentralised jobs and the development of the high-speed internet across the country, opportunities to spread both jobs and housing will be strengthened. It's spreading risks and increasing opportunities, and it's the central party's policy. Furthermore, we believe that the impact of the different measures on the housing market needs to be assessed together. The housing market should be viewed as a whole, and the creation of a new sector in parallel with today’s market would be a radical change which should be carefully assessed in advance. In view of that, the proposal from Red is therefore not supported. The centre party believes that there is a need for a comprehensive investigation into the housing market, and we promoted such a proposal last year, in the Innst. 112 S for 2019-2020. With that, I want everyone to be able to own their own home and have a safe living situation. It's going to be one of the arrows forward when we're going to deal with the effects we see of the situation that's outside this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e511	In Norway, we are proud that there are fewer differences here than there are in many other countries. In the case of housing, we accept that there are large class divisions. Now it's so bad that someone who has a nurse's salary can afford a maximum of 3 pst. of the dwellings for sale in Oslo, the remainder is too expensive. There is something fundamentally wrong with our housing policy when people with normal incomes can't afford to get a living in the country's capital. In the 1980s, the Right Party and the Labour Party alternately provided for the abolition of what was a social democratic housing policy. Then 40 years have passed since that time, when different governments have left more and more of the housing policy to the market. This has led many people to struggle to obtain a dwelling without getting debt far above the pipe, and they often can afford only a dwelling that is far from the workplace. Those who manage are often those who have parents who can spit in millions. The others are often offered unstable rentals in the press areas and can find it difficult to raise capital on the other hand to buy an owner-occupied dwelling. Red wants a housing policy for most people, not a housing party for those who have the most – a policy that is social and inclusive. That's why we're proposing the creation of a supplement, i.e. a non-commercial housing sector that doesn't control the market. Today, the housing market creates enormous values for builders, landowners and not least speculators. We'd rather have a social and inclusive housing policy. By social means, we believe that everyone should have the right to a good dwelling near where they work, and that they can afford to live in without being completely indebted. Including, we believe that it should combat the enormous geographical divisions created by today's housing market. If we are to achieve this, the support of the House Bank must be turned away from individual support schemes to build up in a non-commercial housing sector. We do not propose a break with the ownership line – no, on the contrary: we will ensure that they too cannot afford to own a dwelling in the future and not just be awarded to landlords. In this way, municipalities also need legal housing and tools to ensure this type of housing development and construction. This can be done by providing for requirements in the Law on Planning and Building, and by reintroducing access to building contracts as a prerequisite for building out. There are a number of examples of this from countries such as Germany, Denmark and the Netherlands — the legal requirements that ensure that dwellings are built at a lower price than in the commercial market. What kind of model can you think of to realize what we're proposing? Firstly, in new construction projects, usually organised as housing law, 20-40 pst. the apartments are extended as non-commercial. In the case of the sale of rented dwellings and any compartmentalisation, a certain proportion of these dwellings shall also be included in the non-commercial owner-occupied sector. Then the regulated dwellings can be sold at a regulated price, e.g. initially to the first-time start-ups. 40000 kroner per square metre, which is roughly where construction costs are today. The full cost of the dwellings can be financed from three sources: half of the selling price can be taken as a joint loan, up to half as a contribution from the purchaser and possibly a remainder as a result of subsidies from the State. Then an owner – a buyer – must be able to own a non-commercial apartment as long as he wishes. If you are going to sell it out, it is to be sold back to the House Bank or the housing construction team's non-commercial housing department. This avoids money under the table and the individual transactions between individuals – it will be via a department to avoid such examples. In the case of sale, the purchaser’s price paid for the apartment will be regulated for the increase in the consumer price index during the period of ownership. This ensures that direct and indirect subsidies remain in the apartment and do not fall to the first purchaser. It would be an unfair and unreasonable subsidy of some persons. It is also ensured that the buyer receives part of any capitalisation in the market. We believe that a social housing policy should not only be about the poorest in Norway but also about providing housing at affordable prices for ordinary employees – including in the press areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e532	There is little doubt that the deregulation of the housing market carried out in the 1980s has been successful for all, most of the Nordics. Just think of those who came to our country, for example. as migrant workers, entering the labour market and the housing market, who have now participated in an adventurous journey. There is a danger that the establishment of a non-commercial housing sector will help to put this housing trip on a permanent siding, where no part of the capitalisation that the rest of society is allowed to participate in. That said, the strong increase in housing prices over many years is a major challenge for young first-time start-ups. This is especially true in the press areas, and I guess we could say that Oslo here is in a special position. This challenge is a broad political consensus. The difference lies in the solutions. In the strategy for the housing market presented by the government in 2015, we presented a number of measures for faster, simpler and cheaper housing, which we have since followed up, among others. through simplifications in the Law on Planning and Building. Increasing the provision of housing we believe is the best way to secure most people a good and reasonable dwelling. The desire to own their own home lies deep in the Norwegian people's soul. There are owner-occupied dwellings that provide the best housing security and the lowest housing costs over time. The government will therefore facilitate as much as possible the ownership of its own housing. There has also been a broad political consensus in the Storting on the ownership of housing policy. I see no reason to deviate from this line now. The Norwegian housing model must be said to be a success. Eight out of ten Nordics live in their own home. In addition, the quality of Norwegian dwellings is among the best in the world, while housing costs are relatively low. In addition, the Norwegian housing model has been implemented at relatively low public costs. I am therefore pleased that there is no majority in the Storting to establish a third semi-public and price-controlled housing sector. Most people manage to get a home on their own, but this does not apply to everyone. As demonstrated by the Granavolden platform, the government will strengthen the social housing work. The aim is that everyone should be able to obtain and maintain a suitable dwelling, including disadvantaged people. Assistance to owner-occupiers is an important strategy in housing social work. The House Bank, together with the municipalities, is therefore committed to developing different rental-to-owner models. I have been pleased to note that private housing managers are also now developing and offering their own rental-to-owner models, such as: OBOS in Oslo. Housing start-ups with normal income, but with little equity, will be able to acquire their own owner-occupancy over time through these projects. Such private initiatives are priceworthy, and I would like to welcome more. This shows that market actors themselves see the need and opportunities. The starting loan of the house bank is the main economic instrument to help people find themselves in difficulty buying an owner-occupied dwelling. In 2019, 7,250 households received almost 10,5 billion. kr in the initial loan, the maximum amount ever. Under this government, the use of initial loans has increased by around 3.5 billion. kr, or 50 pst. Start-up loans are reserved for those with persistent problems of entering the housing market. I see that several people are now making arrangements to extend start-up loans to young people with low equity start-ups. In my opinion, such expansion will be unfortunate, and there are several reasons for it. Firstly, there is a danger that increased access to reasonable mortgages will only provide more expensive but not more housing. The threshold for the establishment of dwellings is then even higher. Secondly, an increased offer of state housing loans of up to 100 pst. loan measurement counteracts the impact of the housing loan regulation, which applies to private banks. This regulation was introduced to mitigate debt growth and to prevent high household borrowings. The regulation has been a success and reduces the risk of housing bubbles, financial instability and economic decline. It is also good for young people with housing problems and difficulties. Thirdly, the House Bank should be a complement to the ordinary banks and not a competitor. This is important in order to ensure a healthy social economy and the functioning of credit markets. The government is constantly working to improve social housing so that even disadvantaged people can get help both to obtain and to maintain a suitable housing. The government will present a new communication on housing social policy later this year. In the Communication, the government will present measures to further strengthen housing-social policy, and I look forward to discussing the Communication here in Stortinget. Finally, a few words about the coronary crisis. It has given many in the housing market major challenges. In order to protect the most disadvantaged, Stortinget has already increased the appropriations for housing support by 500 million. kr and the bank's loan frame of 5 billion. kr, e.g. to start-up loans for the disadvantaged. In the context of the revised national budget, the government will come back to the Storting with an assessment of the situation and any new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e561	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e566	As the Council of State well knows, the Workers' Party has proposed in its alternative budgets a strong increase in the Husbank's lending framework, and the House Bank can now be an actor with muscles to keep the wheels running in the construction industry. It was the Stortinget that got the government to expand the loan framework by 5 billion. kr before Easter. We are pleased about that, but we have therefore proposed even higher lending frameworks in our budgets. In addition, we want to advance building projects such as student housing and other public buildings. The industry is concerned whether there will be enough work for the construction industry in the future. Now it is about getting out of the economic crisis with the least possible unemployed carpenters and craftsmen. What is the plan of the Council of State for municipalities to be able to keep up with the activity in local business during the time we are now in?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e573	The municipal sector has been transferred over 6 billion. kr to remedy the situation as a result of the corona. Of course, this applies to additional expenditure currently incurred by municipalities, but also to less revenue generated by the corona situation. There is no liquidity dispute in Kommune-Norway today, fortunately, and the municipalities should be able to maintain the activity at the normal level. It also applies to tasks which they intend to outsource, which should not be delayed but carried out as planned. I have also made this clear to the local authorities that they do not now have to implement measures that help to strengthen the downturn. Then, of course, the government will come back — as previously announced in the Storing of others other than me — to the measures that can be taken to stimulate the economy. In the meantime, we have our foot heavy on the brake pedal, so it's a little early to push the gas in at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e580	The wood industry expressed concern in the nations yesterday. They are afraid of a difficult local economy in the future will cause municipalities to stop ongoing and planned maintenance projects and development projects. As long as the government does not remove the uncertainty of the municipalities, the demand in the construction industry can stop being their concern. Then my question is: will the Council of State guarantee that the loss of tax revenue by municipalities this year and next year will be fully compensated by the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e587	The government has been very clear – to the municipalities and to the business community, but also to the Stortinget – that we should of course contribute to compensating for excessive additional costs arising from the corona, as well as for loss of income and tax losses. It is far too early to estimate what that tax failure is going to be. We still do not know how long the measures will last, and what economic consequences they will have. But what's a fact is that the municipalities have already transferred over 6 billion. kr. They are not in an acute liquidity dispute and are well able to maintain the activity. I have been clear that the state is going to set up for the municipalities, but I also expect that the municipalities now operate as normally as possible, and do not contribute to strengthening the downturn through cuts in already planned projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e592	In the districts, necessary housing may stop because the housing prices at which a completed dwelling is less valuable than the construction costs. There is a need to develop mechanisms to ensure that necessary housing in district municipalities does not stop. What action does the government think is necessary for adequate housing to be built in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e597	This is definitely a problem, and it's clear that when you build a new dwelling in the districts, which, when you put the key in the door, is less valuable than it was before you did it, it doesn't give it an intention to build homes. This is a challenge that I think we need to look at. I don't have all the answers today, but I think it's important that we stimulate enough housing in the districts as well, and that we help to maintain the settlement throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e602	First, it is a fact that the government has not put one penny on the table either for housing support, for the House Bank or for the municipalities. It's the Stortinget that's been pushing forward. It shows some of the government's attitude, the sea in the crisis. But the Council of State says he knows that there are many people who are not allowed to participate in the capital appreciation. That is precisely the point of the initial loan proposal. Because there are those who have a lot of money and can buy many apartments, sail if there are slightly higher equity requirements there, and can take part in the capitalisation, which benefits from the large tax deductions subsidized in the housing sector by over 30 billion. NOK, while they, as we would today, have a start-up loan, can pay the loan, but do not push the prices up, because they do not have that much money, and we have never said that the House Bank should grant money or loan to. And then they'd get part of the capitalization and be able to pay down to their seas. It would strengthen the ownership line. Why does the Council of State disagree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e609	If the question was whether I disagree that we should contribute with the initial loan, the answer to that is no. Of course, I agree that we should contribute with start-up loans. That's why we have increased initial loans by 50 pst. since the representative Andersen's party was in government. My referral was about Red's proposal for a non-commercial housing sector. I think it's a danger that you can end up in a situation where you can't participate in the capitalization, but you're referred to staying in the non-commercial part of the housing sector. I think that would be very unfortunate. Then I will also show that, compared with our neighbouring country, I believe that the Norwegian housing policy has been more successful than what we find there. So let's keep the core of what's success, but we fixed the negative consequences that must exist for those who are specifically taken by it, and that's the hard of them. Starting loans are definitely an important part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e618	Not only Red sees the problem: Åmås, who has been in the government apparatus for the Right, writes in the Evening Post – exactly and correctly: ‘Dwellings now create new class divisions in Norway through inheritance and the severe price differences between central and less central areas. For young people, lonely people and everyone with less purchasing power, it's almost impossible to get something good and central. Several more homogeneous residential areas are created.» Unfortunately, the right has no answer to this. They want to leave this to the market and hope that commercials will expand if prices are pushed down as far as possible, but have no recourse to ensuring that prices are kept so low that people with normal incomes can buy a home in the press areas – have no answer to this. What we want is to make sure that people who also have ordinary incomes can get into the housing sector, even in the press areas. Why does Right disagree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e628	We don't disagree. That's the short answer. We fully agree with that. Then there will have to be enough housing, and enough land will have to be regulated. There I have to say that this is a Oslo issue, essentially. The City Council should do much more to regulate more land ready for construction. Then it's important that we have good tools to ensure that people with disabilities get into the housing market. There are rental-to-eie models, in cooperation with the House Bank, which is of course relevant. The fact that OBOS develops this as well, is good. I think starting loans are the most important means of contributing to just what I see is our common goal. What I don't think is a good idea is the non-commercial housing sector that Red here suggests, because – as mentioned – it can help people get locked up in this non-commercial housing sector, and thus not be allowed to take part in the increase in capitalisation and the housing journey in which the Nordics get the most involved. Then Red asks that this be investigated, but they have already presented a complete solution, and then we can establish that it is not good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e638	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e645	Firstly, the proposal that has been put forward in this matter does not have the details that Red has proposed. There's a broader investigation, so there's no reason to reject that proposal for that reason. Secondly, I note that both the Council of State and the majority think that the lock-in effect of expensive and poor rental conditions that many people have today, and as such a proposal is intended to solve – namely by getting into less expensive rental conditions and having the opportunity to save and buy an own home, or through rental-to-own arrangements, to buy the home gradually. In Norway, housing is subsidized very much, i.e. We subsidize those who have housing. It's over 30 billion. kr is used for tax deductions, and there is not only a social device on them — and it is difficult, but there would have been a need for a reinforced social housing policy at the other end. So housing support, which is one of the key tools for people to own, rent and live safely, is now at the crown level of 2009. In the meantime, half a million more people live in Norway and the income of the low-wage groups has fallen. The housing support has increased a little bit, but if you look at the ratio of boute poison to income, people with poor advice get less housing support, one gets covered a less part of their boute poisons now than before, and many tens of thousands less housing support than when we were half a million fewer people. So housing support is strongly reduced as a housing policy tool, even for those who need it to be able to own, which we all seem to agree on. For this purpose, building more dwellings, especially in Oslo: Yes, there are many plots available in Oslo, which are ready to build. They're not being built. Why don't they do that? Well, that's also because you want to get the most money out of it. The government's answer is to build small and tight, and these corona times should at least make you realize that it's a stupid idea. Nor does this country need any more inaccessible housing for people with disabilities. Why aren't they going to have the election that the Minister for Gender Equality stood and had an entire hour's talk about here instead – about equality? It's a very important thing that we don't keep building dwellings that aren't accessible to the whole population. Then you can't keep saying that we're going to build small. We have to build homes that have life-cycle standards, and we have to have arrangements that allow many more to own than what is done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e658	A little bit to the line change: yes, the municipalities got a few billion of the Storting a few weeks ago. So they didn't get it from the government. It had to go to Stortinget, and the opposition parties at Stortinget had to take action to ensure that the municipalities were given money now. It was absolutely necessary to do that. Even though the government didn't see it, the other parties at Stortinget saw that it was absolutely necessary to do it, because the municipalities were running out of money. It was a big problem. There were many concerns about the need for municipalities to take action and cut down heavily on the services of the inhabitants. Even a number of municipalities were talking about having to leave their employees, because the local government is made up of real people, and they can't run financially irresponsible, because they know that the bill will only get them back twice. That's why the bulk of the population had to grips with it. So it's absolutely right, as the council says, that it's hard to brake and gas at once. It's rarely going to be okay. We agree. But the question was what opportunities the council sees that municipalities can have when we get there that we're no longer going to slow down in business – we're going to have activity, we're going to have people out in work. One of the most important things we can do is make sure that people have a job to do. The question then was: What is the plan that the Council of State sees itself – what opportunities does he see that municipalities have to contribute to speeding up local and regional business? We did not get an answer to that question. We got a reference to the billions that Stortinget gave a few weeks ago. But it was simply to remedy something that could only make the situation worse – that the municipalities had to go to lay-offs. So that money was spent on it and cannot be used twice, although I understand that the council would like to use it. It's nice to be able to spend money twice, but most of us can't. We can essentially use them once. I hope that the Council of State takes the chance, can say a little bit to Stortinget and assure the municipalities that the government actually has such a plan, and can sketch out something about how the municipalities can start thinking in order to be able to keep the activity up and do some of the most important things we can do, which is to keep people working.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e667	The Council of State claims that Rødt's proposals would lead to the lock-in of those people who would then have the opportunity to obtain an owner-occupied dwelling at a slightly lower price than market prices. It is a paradox to hear from a Right-State Council, which therefore supports a policy that leads to the awarding of the rental market to those who have poor advice. We know that 90 pst. of households with good advice owning owner-occupied dwellings. Half of households with poor advice, rents. Lonely caregivers with small children have more than half of them renting their homes, and they are, thanks to their housing policy or lack of housing policy, given a lock-in in a rent market with sky-high rental prices. These people will be helped if Red's housing policy is implemented. That is also the purpose of what we are proposing. We know that eight out of ten own dwellings. In Oslo, the number is two out of three, and the proportion is falling. 39 pst. of the owner-occupiers with low income in 2003. In 2016, the proportion was down to 29 p.m., and the proportion of those who own low-skilled persons is also falling. We know that those who have good contacts at the «parent bank» have a good position when it comes to finding a owner-occupied dwelling. They can get help, if they have wealthy parents, and get a home in the press areas as well. We want a policy for those who do not necessarily have wealthy parents and who are not addicted to drugs and who are totally out of the question – they will get help – but also for ordinary people with ordinary incomes to be able to afford to own their own homes in the press areas. What we know is that there are some countries in Europe that have a housing policy that ensures housing for the most people. In Vienna, half a million inhabitants live in «Gemeindebau», which is municipal housing of good standard. An additional 200,000 live in the so-called ‘fed housing’, which is partially supported and distributed by the city. In Zurich, Switzerland, the city has since 2011 demanded that a third of new construction projects be rented out at self-cost prices. In Hamburg, the city demands the profile of new development projects for the allocation of plots – that 20 pst. of the housing stock shall be high-quality social housing, not only for the most outlying but for people with very common incomes. Both Zurich, Hamburg and Vienna have a housing policy. Norway should also be given, but obviously it will not be on the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e680	I do not doubt the intentions of the representative of Moxnes. They think I'm good. But I believe that his solution will not produce a good result. I have to say that the description given by the representative Moxnes of the housing market is a bit deficient. He talks like we don't have housing social instruments in Norway, and there's no municipal housing in Norway. That's what -- many of them too. We also have a strong intention to own our own home, which has given the result that eight out of ten actually have the opportunity to own their own home. It will probably be said that the bank often owns more of the dwelling than you do, but over time it is still so that people are given the opportunity to join this holiday home, and I think that's good. Then we have to target the measures to help those people who don't have the same opportunity. To the representative of Lauvås, there was never any danger that the municipalities would end up in an acute liquidity dispute. The government has always been clear that municipalities should be compensated for excessive additional costs related to the corona, loss of income and, of course, tax failure. There's never been any doubt about it. Municipalities have initially had liquidity to deal with their situation. What is right, and which was the concern of the municipalities, is that they were not going to have liquidity in that situation over time. I fully agree that the municipalities should be given money. The size did it, and that's good. The government would do that anyway. The question is what time, because we know that at the time it was done, we didn't know very much about the amount of extra costs, the amount of income loss, and the amount of tax failure. We need to come back to those questions and make an assessment of how much the municipalities actually need, so it's good that corruption and government cooperate on these issues. So for the construction industry, which was also asked questions: Yes, the municipalities can help stimulate the construction industry, but I think it is important that we have the right measures at the right time, and that we stimulate the industries that need the most incentives. So the government is now going through how we can help stimulate the activity and the economy when we gradually release the brake pedal and press in the accelerator. It is then essential that we use taxpayers' money properly to get the best possible result. I hope and believe that we all in this Chamber agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e693	So now it was the Council of State that, in its article, boasted of increased frameworks for the House Bank, housing aid and municipalities. Then there is reason to point out that it was the Stortinge that suggested it. It is not right, as the council said, that the municipalities would have done this until Sankthans, because the government had not intended to do anything before the revision. I know many municipalities quite well, e.g. Ringing stuff municipality. Swallow with the allocation that Stortinget has now given, they lack more than 20 million. kr in order to balance their budget and they are obliged to have a balance sheet budget. So here you need more money quickly. The majority and the government have not shown that they understand this situation in the municipalities. The second thing is, I understand that the Council of State lives in a completely different world than what I've done. When people who work on cleaning, trade, transport or work in health care, who have low wages – not only when they start working, but all their lives – will live at rent, expensive, for many years, they have no chance of saving themselves. They do not usually have parents who have the «parent bank» in order. Why in the world aren't these people going to get an initial loan that they can pay, and start paying off on their own home? Not even through a non-commercial housing sector, where they had been able to get in gradually, look at this possibility. I'm just recording that there's a desire from the right to keep these people out of the real estate market, because here we have possible means of dealing with people who aren't necessarily completely on their knees economically, but who will never be able to participate in the appreciation or the tax advantages that exist in the real estate market. I register that you want it. I hope, perhaps after this coronary crisis, that everyone has understood who are the most important and inalienable workers in this country, and that we are able to reward them, with both a little more status and a little more pay, so that several of them might be able to buy a dwelling sail. But it would have been appropriate for the people who have the ability to pay – I repeat: those who have the ability to pay, but lack equity – to borrow through the House Bank, as they were given before, so that they could buy a dwelling and have the opportunity to participate in the capitalisation. It would have been a consistent property line, but that consistency doesn't have the government, because they just see that there are some that are very difficult. SV has wanted to increase those schemes as well. But to all those who are struggling to get into the real estate market today, the government has no answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e702	Let me first of all clarify. As will be seen from the minutes, I was clear that the Storting had granted money to the House Bank and increased housing support and increased loan frameworks for the House Bank. So it wasn't an attempt to take credit for this money. I made it clear that the Storting had done it, so then we can agree on that, I hope. So to what the representative Karin Andersen is raising here: what she's actually talking about is lifting the mortgage regulation, because the people that the representative here is talking about, Andersen, got previous loans in commercial banks. It's gotten harder to get that loan, and there's a reason for that. It is possible that I remember incorrectly, but I think that the party SV also voted in favour of the housing loan regulation in its time – I, as I said, reserve that I might be wrong – and that there is a good reason why we have it. It's just that we're going to make sure people don't take up too much loans, and that we have a well-functioning credit market in Norway, and a credit market that doesn't contribute to higher housing prices than necessary. There is no doubt that the Housing Loan Regulation has helped to dampen housing prices, not least in Oslo. I am concerned that, after all, we have a quite well-functioning policy also for the people we are talking about here. If we look at the statistics, 18 pst owns. by persons at the beginning of the 20s of their own residence in Norway. The average for all European countries is 8 pst. 70 pst. of all persons in Norway who are at the beginning of the 30s living in a dwelling they own. In Europe, the average is 46 pst. But it is challenges for young people, some other low-paid and newly-accompanied refugees, who live for a shorter period of time. I don't think that's a problem. It is the ongoing challenge of entering the housing market that is the challenge. That's where the housing social instruments come in. The issues that Andersen's representative raises are things that we'll of course also discuss in the social message, which we'll present later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e711	The government refers to numbers that are completely correct, the problem is that now it's going in the wrong direction. So there's fewer of these groups now entering the real estate market than it was before. And it comes from what I said in the first place, that many low-paid workers have stood still. Some people have actually also been paid less, and now after the coronary crisis, we can fear that there will be many more. So it's true that these got their equity covered by the House Bank before. But it's a little hard to see that that's what drove the prices up, when it's so profitable for those who have a lot of money. Sickness with the increased requirement for equity and increased taxes on secondary housing is extremely profitable. And those who have money do it: they invest in property, and it pushes prices enormously. I do not hear that the Council of State is the least concerned about this, but he is very afraid that the House Bank will lend as much money to someone – as they can serve. I've repeated it quite a number of times now: so they're not going to get any more loans than they can serve. This means that it will not push prices up significantly. Because then they would have had capital for this equity requirement, if it had been. The problem is that people with normal wages have low wages all their lives, and that you pay more rent than you would actually pay to serve this loan. That's the actual situation for many, so they have living expenses that are higher than they would have had if they had got this initial loan. That's what's paradoxical. These people, who make all of these important jobs a very low salary, should be given the opportunity to own a sail and be part of that appreciation and be able to pay down on their own. I think this is pure common sense, and we need to find solutions to this. I appeal as strongly as I can. I know that the Center Party and the Workers' Party agree with this. We have to solve this, because it's awfully stupid that it should be like this, and that we don't help these people into the housing market, into a loan portfolio and a cost that they can actually pay, and that won't put prices in the same way as those that can speculate in the real estate and housing market today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e722	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e739	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e746	Let me start by thanking the proposers for once again having the opportunity to discuss differences in Norway. The concrete proposal is to introduce a wage cap for leaders in the 15G state and to freeze salaries for current managers with wages above this level. The proposal was submitted in what we might call normal times. So something has happened in the meantime. Today we are discussing the theme of a back carpet that reminds us of two things. The first is how important it is to have a society based on trust, where everyone feels a responsibility to contribute to the community. A prerequisite then is that everyone feels like part of this community. Then the differences can't be big. Then ordinary people can't sit with the feeling that an elite is running away, while you're standing still. This is important in normal times, and it is even more important in times of crisis. Secondly, the crisis provides an additional reminder of how dependent we are on each other's work, on everyone's work, and not least the work of many of those who do not belong to society's payroll. On the part of the Workers' Party, we have used the opportunity to present our proposal, which is to set down a leadership pay commission for government executives, executives in state-owned companies and companies where the state is a majority shareholder and the salary of politicians at national and local level. The Commission shall look at the government directors’ salaries, bonus schemes and remuneration in the context, analyse why wage developments at the top level have continued, despite inter alia. guidelines adopted previously. Furthermore, the Commission shall make a thorough assessment of the real social considerations in the determination of wages and salaries and what cannot be justified by this. The main reason for our proposal is that there is a connection. There is a link between wage developments in the various parts of what we can call the elite in public – many municipalities link the rapporteur’s salary to the salary of the representatives of big business. The Wage Commission of the Grand Duchy has repeatedly stated that wages and salaries of gross domestic product representatives, government councils and prime minister should be more closely linked to the development of national leadership. In practice, the development of senior pay in the state is linked to the development of state companies and companies in which the State is a majority shareholder. It's a pekelek we've both witnessed to, and ourselves is part of. You compare yourself to other parts of the elite and point to those who have more. The result is a pay gap that makes the elite run away and income inequalities increase. That is why a management pay commission had been in place, and therefore it was that the Workers' Party, before there was any vote of crisis in the country, announced the freezing of salaries for depositors, state councils and prime minister until such a commission had delivered its position. It's about showing that we're serious, that we're not just pointing at others, but also ourselves. Then I note that the Workers' Party's proposal on wage freezes for top politicians has triggered a race of support from other parties. That's good. It is a total big thing that today warns that we are also willing to look at ourselves. In that way, this is a brand day.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e765	Will the representative address the proposals behind the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e770	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e775	The representative Masud Gharahkhani has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e780	It is important that the growth of government rents is maintained at the right level, as in the workplace. It is each department that determines the rents in its own departments and its agencies, but the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has a superior responsibility for the overall development. Minister of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Nikolai Astrup has focused on slowing down the growth of top-leader wages in the department and state enterprises. The Minister has announced that he will set up a selection to look at the payroll system in the state and set a ceiling on the total wage growth for 240 leaders. The new rule will apply to those in the payroll system, for example: for ministerial councils and executives such as police and tax directors, but will not cover the tenants of state-owned companies or politicians. When it comes to political wages, we in the Right believe that it is right in this context to ask the Presidentship of the Grand Duchy to set down a selection for the settlement of a common principle of evidence to politicians at all levels of government. The selection should evaluate the scheme of the Enlarged Commission on Wage, and the selection must be given a broad composition, where KS is represented. Until that matter is brought before the Stortinget, we suggest that a freeze of evidence be given to depositors and members of the government at today's level. In addition to these measures, there is reason to recall that there is already a wage cap in the country’s renting system of 2 million. kr. This ceiling has not been adjusted since 2015. For this reason, we believe that it is not appropriate to introduce a new wage cap for leaders in the state of 15G, and the wage freeze for current leaders with salaries above this level, as proposed by the proposers. However, it is important that the principle of State rent is based on moderation and that the State should not in any way be a wage-leader. At the same time, attention needs to be paid to the ability of the State to recruit, develop and maintain good leaders to contribute to the realisation of the important societal mission of state-owned enterprises. The state must then have the flexibility to offer competitive wages, including in those parts of the labour market where pay levels are high. Politically, it is signaled that renting is a challenge. The guidelines clarify that leaders' wage developments should be in line with wage developments in society. The employers themselves are sitting here with the key. The wage growth of government leaders is well above the average increase for business leaders, but in this context it is important to take into account that these are still two distinctly different markets, and private sector wages are well above the government sector. It is a characteristic of Norwegian working life that there are relatively small wage differences compared to other OECD countries. We have a well-founded trust society in Norway, and we must take good care of this. The rents must be competitive without opening up a pay party in the state. With this I present the proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e801	The representative, Toril Eidsheim, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e806	This matter begins with a proposal for a representative on the payroll of the state, and now it still has to do with the participation of politicians' wages and salaries in the state's companies. It's okay for us in the Progress Party to take a collective debate on everything. I would like to add that this setting was discussed and submitted by the Committee before the pandemic struck Norway. So today, it's extra convenient to talk about leadership wages in the public sector, because we know that the leaders haven't experienced being outlawed, nor have they experienced the insecurity that very many in our society feel at the moment we're now in. The Progress Party generally believes that the salaries of leaders of the state and leaders of state companies should be competitive, not wage-leaving, but not locked on a level that prevents us from recruiting and retaining good leaders. Leadership in the public sector is important, and then we must also be prepared to pay leaders. In addition to what has been proposed by the other party, the Progress Party has its own proposal in this matter, together with the Centre Party and SV. It's about leaders who are no longer leaders, but who get to keep the payroll. There is a widespread practice both in municipalities and in the state that very many leaders who voluntarily or involuntarily no longer have a managerial function are given a new job where they are given the same pay, or at least receive a high salary. It is a practice that we are critical of, and we therefore have a proposal that we should ‘will the government establish a practice whereby, as a general rule, managers of the State and of wholly-owned state companies who resign from their positions, whether or not they are voluntary and involuntary, do not retain their senior salary if they are relocated to lower positions’.» We are pleased that the Centre Party and SV have joined that proposal. But we thought it was so good that the other parties would like to read it one more time, so that there would not be a vote where the three parties – a little rare coalition – stand alone behind an otherwise good proposal. I hope that several parties will seriously consider it until the vote. Finally, I should also like to comment on the issue of political pay. The Progress Party has entered into its government party's proposal to set up a selection and, until that selection has delivered its report, freeze the salaries at the current level. We think that's a good way to do it. We also think it is good that one looks at the different levels of administration in this regard. When we dealt with the regional reform in this room, the Progress Party was very critical that the salaries in the county municipalities in particular were very high. We did a survey that showed that very many county councils paid state politicians at a level that was far above what the representatives in this hall are watered down with and, in addition, lower the salary at a level that most people do not think is in line with the responsibility of a county municipality. We had clear expectations that regional reform would mean fewer political wages and lower rates for that level. We have recorded that some initiatives have been taken, but at very close to as many as we think were necessary. We are therefore pleased that a selection will be set down to look at it. It is important that a show moderation in the county communities, which is now fewer. Then we expect that there will be more money for services and less for administration and political wages. With that, I take up the suggestions that the Progress Party has with the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e826	The representative Helge André Njåstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e832	Economic disparities in Norway are increasing. It is agreed by the Stortinget that the government agrees on this, and the experts agree on this. Several studies show that, in a slightly longer time perspective, there has been a rather dramatic increase in income inequality worldwide since the 1980s. In Norway it has been partly different, but history shows that we are at full speed into greater inequality. One of the most important drivers of increased inequality is the difference in wages and salaries, and the resultant exclusion is a theme that has been put on the agenda by both the KS, the Prime Minister and the Stortinge in several rounds. One of the characteristics of Norwegian working life, and one of the reasons we have had less inequality, has been relatively small differences in earnings compared to other OECD countries. In the last decades, on the other hand, there has been an increase in wages and salaries in Norway as well. The distance between the lowest and the highest monthly salaries has increased significantly, and that before we take into account bonus and different pay arrangements in addition to the ordinary salary. In 1997, the monthly salary was 10 pst. the best paid 2.8 times the average salary of the 10 pst. the lowest paid for the jobs. In 2017, this ratio was increased to 3.8. To illustrate, it represents a salary difference of NOK 65,600 per month. There's a significant difference. In the past, Stortinget has had proposals on how to deal with wage developments in the state, in state companies and not least the total pay system. Those proposals have not received a majority. Not later than last year, through Innst. 166 S for 2017-2108, promoted inter alia The central party proposed how any changes to the guidelines for management salaries and other types of remuneration for employees in the country should be addressed. It was downhearted. We see that the debate is on the rise again, and that is in the light of the fact that the Central Party has promoted this proposal. I record what the case rapporteur had to say, that the proposal has brought about a series of redundancies and a major debate on the level of pay we should have in the public sector, both for the political elected representatives, for the administrative directors of the departments and for other employees of state companies. That's good, and that means that we get the opportunity to discuss how wages make us get bigger differences in this country, a difference and an inequality like this hall – mostly – has been unanimous in the past that you want to fight, but unfortunately you haven't managed to reach an agreement on proposals that do. There are some differences between the different proposals. For the Center Party, it has been important to put a roof on the management fees we see. There are several suggestions on the table where you want to go further, including: to get investigations in place. It seems like there's a majority to get an investigation with different elements, including: The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party believe that it should keep looking at the salary freeze of the prime minister and the representatives, while part of the other parties, including the Center Party, want to go further, that one should also look at how leadership wage developments have been, among other things. for the administrative directors of the State. An increasing proportion of these leaders are paid quite far above others, both in comparable positions in the state and in other positions, without starting any indexation for that reason. But we see that we have an increasing inequality, and it has to be addressed at more levels than just for the magnificence representatives and the prime minister, the prime minister and the individual administrative director. The state needs to have a comprehensive leadership wage policy. History shows that despite government insurance, developments have continued in the last two years. The centre party therefore considers it necessary that we get this debate, and not least that we get progress in the matter, so that we ensure that we get less inequalities in this country and thereby preserve the Norwegian model, which we are very pleased with. I'm taking up the suggestions that the Center Party is behind alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e851	Then the representative Willfred Nordlund has taken up the proposals that the Central Party is behind alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e856	First, I would like to include the suggestions in the setting that SV is on its own. I believe that there is actually a bit of a historical situation we are witnessing now, because, through the discussion of this matter, there has been a cross-political agreement that the politicians' wages in the Stortinget and in the government apparatus should be frozen. These are a little different proposals – and I can say that SV is going to vote subsidiaryly for the other proposals, except for the Central Party, and then of course we are voting for our own. That's because we have to establish this principle. There may also be reason to discuss our salary level, it is agreed by SV, and we want to come back to it this fall, when we are going to discuss the salaries. Several have now pointed out the fact that we are now in a situation where many lose their jobs, and many have the prospect of falling into pay. It should, of course, be born that we, who are in the process of determining the rules on how those who fall into pay should have it, also show the necessary moderation and understanding of that situation. And it's quite true, as the rapporteur says, when he talks about us having to break with this pickle mark that's been going on for years. I was in the local government in Kongsvinger many years ago. Then I was a kindergarten assistant, and they don't serve the whole world. Then there was a discussion about the remuneration of the rapporteur and the adviser. It was the case that if the adviser went up to pay in wage negotiations, the rapporteur had to do so too, because it was about respecting one another. And I have to say that then I went to the pulpit and asked if it wasn't that they actually respected me, who worked in kindergarten and served a fraction of what they did. They had to say it -- they probably couldn't say anything else -- but it says a little bit about how we think about wages, and here it's been a spiral where you point at each other, not just on the politicians' side, but also on the employees' side. The public sector is also characterised by highly skilled, well-trained labour, largely across — and perhaps even more so than the municipalities. And the leaders of the state and the municipalities depend entirely on this highly skilled workforce if they are to succeed in their job. If all these employees are to accept to do the job with a normal decent salary that is possible for society, we cannot have leaders living in a completely different economic world, who require high wages, extras and bonuses. And it's true that neither in the private nor public sectors you get this high pay because it's very risky to have these jobs. It turns out that if you have to go, you get big final packages, new jobs and just as well paid. So it's not paid for a risk. We need skilled leaders, and we need managers who have pay terms and conditions to live well with. But when the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister have the top two offices in public Norway, it must be possible to do a decent, common, good job for those salaries. It was supposed to be lacking that no other managers, who have other types of jobs, would also be able to do a job with that salary level. Therefore, SV has proposed that we set a ceiling on that salary level. It is very strange that someone actually believes that they have a more important job and must have paid better than the Prime Minister. It's a very strange logic, for a more responsible job than that, I guess it's not possible to have. And as I said, SV and I believe that it must be possible to put some sticks in the cross for NOK 1735000. It must be possible to do a real job when you have such a salary. We actually think the leaders of the state can have that, too, and we think it's good, precisely because we have to have that solidarity in society, where we also have all these highly competent people who have high student debt, who have trained for many years, but who can never expect to receive such wages. I think maybe neither the majority nor the government is going to pay so much tax that we can afford to pay such wages to all those who are going to work in the public sector. Then we have to get the differences down. We have to get the differences down, and this is an area where we can actually set a roof – it suggests SV. I see that others are also concerned with the thoughts – we are pleased about that – and what we can at least agree on today is to put a roof or a stop to wage increases for the staging representatives and the government apparatus now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e869	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e874	The coronary apathy has necessitated exceptional measures for the protection of infection. Hundreds of thousands are now on leave, have lost their jobs, have their income cut by 30 pst. or more — because of political decisions. Everyone here realizes that it's created a very dramatic and serious situation for a lot of people. The attitude to this matter was given on March 12, the same day that the authorities shut down our society, and so before anyone could know how much of the crisis would be. It is uncertain what the future will be like, but we know something: that the crisis has hit many employees in low pay jobs particularly hard. With that curtain there are several good suggestions from other parties that we want to support, and that could have ensured that many of the highly paid and highly privileged in our society also had to tighten up the lifeline. All that will be voted for by Red. We fully agree that when a government manager resigns from a highly paid position and goes to another, lower position, he/she should not retain the salary he/she had in the job he/she left. There are a number of gruesome examples of, among other things. within health establishments or when the former Vy group manager brought with him a salary of 3,2 million. kr to his new position as so-called consultant when he left as head of the Vy group. There is an unculture at the top of the public sector, where people are completely devoid of stomach function, and then the Storting must tighten up to ensure that it is restored to the stomach. Throughout the public sector, employees on the floor, even in normal times, feel pressured from above to save money. The government’s ABE cut operating budgets to the bone over many years. Ordinary employees are told that they have to demand less, work longer and run faster, but it does not happen at the top. In the director's mind, there's a completely different logic. The number of high-wage directors and top bureaucrats with million wages is increasing – with the Advance Party both inside and outside government – in the railways, in health businesses and in the government apparatus. In Norway today, there are a few percent who serve more than us policymakers. Over the last ten years, the bulk of population has decided to raise their own wages by about 300,000 kroner. That's the way it goes when the belly guards the oat sack. There's twice as much in dollars as a municipal employee has received in the same period, and there's three times as much in dollars and cents as one who works in the hotel and restaurant industry, which is now hard hit by the crisis, has received. The 10 pst. The lowest wage in Norwegian working life served less in crowns and ears in 2019 than they did in 2009, and it was worth noting before the Korona crisis hit us. Red supports the proposal to carry out a critical review of the level of policy-makers’ salaries and other management salaries, and it should only be lacking that policy-makers too do not now freeze the level of wages given the situation we are in. Although wage freezes are good and good, today's situation must require a greater effort from politicians than what we see. Red has repeatedly proposed to cut political wages without significant support from the other parties. In today's situation, it is extremely important that the elected representatives themselves take part in the efforts that we ask everyone else in society to participate in. Therefore, in our view today, the Storting should decide not only to freeze the allowances, but from 1 May and the rest of 2020 cut them by 20 pst. in solidarity with all the Northmen who have lost much of their income because of the coronary apathy and because of political decisions resulting from infection prevention measures. I want to remind you of what Siv Jensen said to the media about wage cuts. She said the following: «Our society is now in a position where everyone has to contribute. Of course, this also applies to politicians.’ Labour Party representative Gharahkhani said that politicians too should ease their wages: "We make a lot of money, and we make a lot of money. For my part, it would not have been a problem that we too were on that duel." Yes, so join that virtue! Come with me and go ahead. Let action follow words in the Advance Party and the Workers' Party. Join the payroll, which most Nordics now experience, rather than just going in for a payroll. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e906	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e911	It's tempting to start by saying that if you freeze your pay, your pay actually goes down, because inflation is rising. But that's not what I was going to say. I would say that the main task of the public sector is to ensure that the population can live good, safe and free lives. The state will provide security, security and high-quality services to the population through all phases of life, and to succeed in that, we need good employees and skilled leaders in the state. Today we have done so thanks to the possibility of recruiting, maintaining and developing skilled and competent managers. But the most important tool we have is to offer competitive pay, also in those parts of the high-wage labour market. There shall be no pay party in the country. 15G, which equals a little bit less than 1.5 million. kr, is a lot of money, but setting a wage cap of 15G and freezing current wages above this makes it more difficult to recruit the most sought-after and competent leaders of the state. It will be more difficult to find the right people to lead the Nav, the Defense, the Road Service, the police and the tax system, to mention some state businesses. When you hear some representatives in this room, it sounds like there's a free flow of high wages in the state. It's not. Today, the government’s management pay system includes around 240 employees, who are largely ministerial and business leaders, such as women and men. the police director and the tax director, where the individual manager is subject to specific requirements for performance in the post. Compliance with these is assessed annually by the employer, with the possibility of an increase in wages and salaries in the event of good deliveries and a decrease in wages and salaries in the absence of results. The possibility of providing remuneration and legal positions, which were also mentioned by several representatives in the hall, was severely tightened by the government in 2015. There was a need for that. Then it's worth remembering that there's already a $2 million upper wage cap. kr, which has not been adjusted since 2015, and those who have reached that ceiling, which concerns a few, then experience a real annual wage decrease. There are 67 managers who are reported to have a salary equal to or greater than 15G. Many of these are current candidates for other highly paid positions in state companies or outside the country. If state enterprises are to attract and retain these leading candidates, it is unfortunate to limit the scope of action with a wage cap of 15G. The state should not be a payroll, but I believe that the state must be able to offer competitive conditions. Wage developments shall be reasonable and over time in line with other wage developments in the labour market. This will be followed up by the guidelines for the remuneration of directors in the State and by annual letters from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation to the other departments. Unfortunately, we see that wage developments were stronger than we wanted in 2019, with a wage increase of 3.6 pst. for managers of the government's management pay system. The number of countries reported to Technical Calculation Committees shows that the wage trend of top managers in the country was 4.1 pst. in 2019. In comparison, the front-facing frame was 3.2 pst. In recent years, ministries have been clearly informed that the wage increase for managers should be kept within the front line and thus in line with wage developments elsewhere in society. However, when management salaries increase more, it is necessary to take action. Therefore, two measures have been taken by the government. Firstly, for 2020, we have introduced a wage cap corresponding to the front-level training framework for each department in terms of salary increases for heads of the government's senior pay system and senior executives in the main tariff agreement. This means that each department has room for action to differentiate wage developments for its leaders, but that they must stay together within the front-line framework. Secondly, we put down a sample to look at the management pay system in the country. It's been five years since the last time we went through the government's management pay system. By reviewing the scheme at regular intervals, we can ensure that it is in line with time. I have started a dialogue with the main associations in the state on the mandate and composition of the sample. I have noticed that a number of proposals have been made in this case concerning both politicians' wages and state-owned companies. As this is not my responsibility, I am pleased to refer to the proposal of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party to set up a sample that will explore common principles of remuneration for politicians at all levels of government and evaluate the system of the Grand Duchy's Wage Commission. The items that are kept in the room indicate that it can be selected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e934	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e939	Firstly, I am pleased that our proposal to freeze top-level political salaries has now led to all parties supporting wage freezes, but then I wonder if the Right-State Council has come up with the 10 pst. the lowest wage had an annual salary of NOK 293,000 last year. That's about what a nursery assistant, a shop worker or a newly-trained health professional serves. Government council Astrup is responsible for executive salaries in the state, and on his and Right guard, some top government leaders have only received a salary increase of NOK 164 000 in one year. Does the Council of State think it's fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e944	Now it has hardly happened on my watch because the payroll this year is postponed until the fall and I joined in January. But I fully agree with the representative that this kind of wage development is not acceptable. That is why I have just taken an initiative and said that the departments must stay within the framework of their wage-fixing. This means that if, for some specific reasons, pay growth is to be higher than that of the FFS, others in the same area will have to be lowered so that the overall level of pay does not go beyond the FFS. There shall be no pay party in the country. One should not have a wage increase beyond that of the front line in 2020 – and that is an absolute requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e949	There have been enough warnings, and there have been enough opportunities to clean up, for this has happened under the auspices of the Right Councils. That's why I want to ask the Council of State: how do you think your government has handled this for the six and a half years you've been running?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e955	The President reminds us that questions should be asked to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e960	Now, as we tighten up and both set down a sample to look at the government's management pay system, and put an absolute thank you for the growth in wages within the government's management system, it's a signal that we believe it has not been good enough. But that does not mean that no action has been taken. For example, we strongly focused on the use of right-wing positions and remuneration in 2015. That was absolutely necessary. Many contracts that were concluded, not least when the representative's party put into government, with just clauses on rights and remuneration, are therefore no longer possible. Now it's tightened strongly in. Then we have to make sure that over time the wage growth should not be higher than what it is for the fronts, so that together we have moderate wage developments, but at the same time we can, of course, also have competitive conditions to attract capable people – for that is what we need in the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e965	I noticed with interest the Government's comment that the government is going to implement two measures to look at this with management salaries. One is that there is a wage ceiling for each department and that one should not exceed the framework for the front. It could perhaps be an advantage – with the background of the proposals, which are partly the same, as in this case – if the government had come to the Stortinget and taken a discussion on how to possibly look at further leadership wage developments in the state. Here's a lot of areas, which I was in my post. In this regard, I wonder: When the Council of State says that the government itself has set up a sample to look at the government's earnings in the state and also at the mandate, is it that the government will refer to this debate and many of the elements contained in the proposals from various parties about what could have been such a mandate in a larger management board?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e972	The measures I have taken fall under my constitutional responsibility. It is therefore natural for me to work on it as a starting point. Then, of course, the government always listens to the Storting and is aware of signals from the National Assembly. Something else would have gotten out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e977	It was still good that the Council of State said that it would look as if the government had not listened to the National Assembly. In this context, when it comes to reviewing the mandate under constitutional responsibility of the Council of State, the use of legal positions is something to be seen by the Council of State to the extent that it has been correctly pointed out in recent years. But for all of us, when we either voluntarily or involuntarily lose the job, it's not normal practice that we necessarily get the same salary in a new job, of course, unless we get a more demanding job in that context. If you are relocated to a lower position in the country, it is often the case that you retain the salary you had in the previous post. What are the views of the government and the Council of State on this relationship? Does it seem that if you are relocated to a lower position on a voluntary or involuntary basis, you should reduce your salary, or should you keep your salary?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e984	And with the constraints that we've done, it's the way to make the pay that you're going to have to be consistent with the problems and responsibilities that you have. Then it is clear that there are some contracts that were concluded when the representative's party put into government, which have other clauses, and on which we can hardly go back. But with the restraints that were made in 2015, such new agreements will not be concluded now. So we've sort of cleaned up by the representative's party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e989	Based on the statements of the Council of State, it sounds like he thinks the best always go after the highest salaries. I'm not sure that's always true. What I noticed is that the Council of State says you should keep the front-line framework in case of new wage negotiations. That means that if someone is going to get more, a few less are going to have to do it. That means you haven't put a bomb on them because the leaders can get a lot more. It just assumes that the others get less, and that the differences can increase, go along with the technique set up by the Council of State. What are the measures that the Council of State will take in addition to this in order to ensure that the developments we are in are not continuing? What was reproduced by the Statistical Central Bureau on 21 February this year shows that management wages are increasing much more than the other salaries — even in percent. It's going to be very different in heads and ears.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e996	This will allow a single employee to receive a wage increase higher than the FF framework, but it is assumed that some in the same department receive a lower wage growth than the FF framework, so that overall there is no shift. There may be reasons for this flexibility – that individual employers need to be able to negotiate with their employees about it. For example, if two businesses are merged, they are given considerable extended responsibilities and have a renewed annual target position, which means something more and more than what they had in their previous annual target contract, it must be possible to assess this individually, but in such a way that the overall framework does not go beyond the front-line framework. So on average, you won't be able to experience what we experienced in 2019, namely that there was a higher wage increase within the government's management pay system than it was in the front. That is my point: overall, you should not have a higher wage increase than in the front level – that is, on the same salary growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1001	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1008	Car, bread and housing are purchased in kroner, not in percentages. The really increasing differences between people in Norway are now creating greater differences in who can live safe lives and differences in how people’s everyday lives work. They create differences in who has power. Because on the Biggest we have power over our own wages, it's especially important that we don't make the situation for ourselves too different from for those we're going to represent. The people's representatives must be able to recognize themselves in everyday life to people we're going to represent. That's why we're getting on a wrong course as this development continues to go in two different directions, between those who earn the least, and actually have gotten less in recent years, and those who are leaders, whether they're in state companies or here on the Storing or in government. The Right-State Council said that there was no free flow of executive wages in the state. Well, there is at least a strong current from those who work on the floor and up to the top of where the money goes. If we take the railway as an example, it's like that. washes our trains, has subsidized and paid for the pay party among the directors in recent years. For my part, when I take the train home to Tynset, it's actually far more important to have a skilled cleaner who makes sure that train is clean than to have an extra communications manager in Vy of 3 million. wages and salaries. That is why this debate is about respect for work and what part of the efforts of people we actually value. We can just think about e.g. Per Olav, who has worked for 43 years on the railway and washed the trains that I and many others in my county have had the pleasure of taking, who at the end of his long working life is told that he may lose the AFP and annual pension – all at the mercy of his long, long effort for all of us in Norway. We are strongly opposed to this kind of policy in the Labour Party, because we believe that it is now time for a fairer Norway and a social development where we are really creating security and hope for the future and where the differences are getting smaller.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1023	The representative Sandtrøen takes up the curse of the percentage bill, and it's time to talk about it. For example, 4 pst is. of 1,5 million. kr something completely different than 4 pst. of a salary of NOK 380000. That's the heads and ears we get, so saying it's equal, it's not right for me at least. It's not equal to wage developments if someone who's high pay gets 4 pst. And that's the same thing as those who are low pay get. Then the difference in heads and ears increases, and it increases in standard of living, for the standard of living and the possibilities we have in life, are the heads and ears we have in the pay bag. That's why we can't keep talking about percentage increases as if it were equal. The reason I took the floor is that I have a comment on the Red's proposal. SV will not support it today, but we believe that Red here points to something that is important. In all the years I've been on Stortinget – a lot of people are getting involved – I've both voted against salary increases and voted for them to be smaller. I have also been a strong driver for changing the golden pension, which I don't think anyone ever thought it was reasonable that we should have. This is part of the debate we have now, namely that we have a great responsibility to ensure that our wages do not go away, and that we do not operate with the percentage that we have made to now, because then the differences also increase. We believe that we should come back to this question when we deal with our wages for the autumn, when the matter comes up. Then we believe that we need to consider, if necessary, reducing our wages in the current situation, and not only until 31 December 2020, as it says here, but on a permanent basis, i.e. we start at a different level in the future to the rounds that come in the years to come. That's why we're voting against this today, but we're absolutely open to discussing it. We believe that the Storting should do that, especially when so many now show a high awareness of what is happening in society around us – the major challenges that many families are facing in the future – and when there are so many who argue so clearly that increasing differences between leaders and people who have all the societally critical jobs that we have now seen, which are largely low-paid, are not a good thing for society. Then we must also be willing to look at our salaries when that matter is to be dealt with until the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1033	We are far out in the debate now, and a lot has been said, so I'm not going to go into all the aspects of this matter. When I asked for the word, it was simply to correct an information given in a previous post. This was the case with the representative Nordlund, who – if I understood his rendition of the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Party of Advancement correctly – said that this was a matter of policy-makers' reward for bigoting and government representatives. That's not right. As the proposal is from us, it applies to politicians at all levels of government. As elected representatives, we have been concerned that we have a special responsibility to show a sense of servitude in the use of money, whether it's in the municipality, state or state, and that our salary level must be seen in the context of society. I agree, and therefore we believe that it is in place to review this, and that the compensation scheme is frozen until this is done. I am pleased that this proposal is being put forward today. I am also pleased that we have been able to address this proposal and address it to all levels of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1040	In any case, the debate is going on, and we have gradually come to a relatively consensus that there are challenges to the rise of differences in management pay, especially in society and elsewhere. My point of referring to the Right Party, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal was a reflection that some agreed on the types of leadership wages to be frozen – that is, that some people, like the Center Party, felt that this must also apply to the administrative leaders of the State, while the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party thought this only applied to the magnificence representatives – and then also to the Grand President, I count – and also to members of the Government, at the present level. I didn't intend to link it to that Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party thought it was expedient to attach it to all levels of government, at least it wasn't my intention. What really made me take the floor was that I became a little uncertain, based on the statement made by the Council of State in the change of line, whether it's not really a majority, at least between the government, the Progress Party of the Centre Party and the SV – perhaps not with the government parties here in the Chamber – in order that, as a general rule, you should not keep your executive salary if you are relocated to a lower position, with reference to what the Council of State said, that it is something that you should not do in the main. Then there should be no problem if, in fact, the Labour Party, the Right and the other parties voted in favour of that proposal. It is probably contrary to people’s general perception of what it is like to leave a job — whether it is voluntary or involuntary — and get a lower position, and you also have to pay. At least it sounds as if the government and the Central Party agreed on that, and it would probably have been an advantage if more people agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1047	I would like to thank you for the debate and hope that something good can come out of this round. But I have some comments. I notice that the representative Moxnes has actually moderated something. He prefers to suggest that the depositors earn a quarter of a million kroner more than the Norwegian average salary, but today he has proposed that it should only be valid for six months before it should return. I believe that everyone who has joined the debate has recorded that the Right has for a long time defended today's practice despite the fact that many employee organisations have repeatedly said that the top managers systematically grant themselves higher wages than other workers. It's good that there's a majority for the freezing of wages. I hope that this will lead to that, after all, there will be a total review of the government's executive salaries, of the state companies, and that you stop pointing at each other and understand how ordinary workers really do, because it's about justice. That's why I also want to say that I have faith, but I'm not 100 percent sure, because it's naive to think that this is now on the go. To what extent one sees increasing differences as a problem, is a deep-seated dividing line in Norwegian policy. I believe that what we have now taken on the initiative of the Workers' Party shows that we are on the right side of this dividing line. It's expressed in further rounds we're going to have. And it's approaching May 1st, so we're going to say the fight continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1058	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1075	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines with replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1082	I want to start by thanking everyone in the Cooperation Committee, and I am not least looking forward to the debate on the matter. It's a demanding time for Norwegian school. Many kids go back to school in these days after many weeks of absence. Many others must continue to receive online education. I want to take this opportunity today to give praise to all teachers and school leaders who, in these days, stretch far for our kids to have the best starting point, despite the difficult situation in society now. It's been a lot to enjoy in Norwegian school in the last few years. Much goes in the right direction – the students learn more, more and more teachers get deeper into the subjects they teach, fewer fall from and more people get a place to learn. At the same time, we have a way of improving early performance and ensuring all basic skills at the earliest possible level, which provides a basis for mastering and learning joy. How the situation in School-Norway affects this is particularly important to follow closely. When we know about the state of Norwegian school, it's precisely because we actively facilitate not only knowledge of school, but knowledge of school. This has not always been the case and should not go back beyond the early 2000s until the knowledge of Norwegian school was limited, at least in terms of a broader understanding of content and results. Now we've put together a series of tools, where national samples, among other things. is included. It has been important for the development of Norwegian school, the debate on school content and the follow-up to school outcomes in society. Each of these tools gives a narrow picture and school quality a broad picture, but in total it has led to better quality development, and we're trying to reach out as far as possible for our kids in a direction based on knowledge, not assumptions. Attempts to create an impression of a national test track in this context are a false track. Nationally, our students have 13 short exams during 10 years of school, which contain nearly 10,000 school hours. It can hardly be referred to as a test hunt. In addition, the tests are designed not only to give society, the school owners and us politicians knowledge, they also work well as a tool for the teacher's follow-up of the individual student. During the consultation held by the Committee, it was established by the team of researchers that national samples as sample samples could not naturally be used to follow up the individual student. Nor could they be used to monitor the development of each school. Once again, there is a national and, at best, regional overview, far-reaching information provided through other international tools such as PISA. It may be worth mentioning that the Central Party, as a defence site here, has called for Norway to be notified out of PISA as well, and SV is hanging around. What becomes red-green school policy when the Workers' Party does not want to say what they mean should raise concerns among students, parents and researchers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1099	This is not a new debate we have had here in this Chamber before. Although we have had a slightly different approach, at least the opposition has gathered on the main requirements: a trust reform in the school and cutting unnecessary reporting and documentation. For the Workers' Party, I still believe that there is reason for concern that the school life of the teachers is too marked by unnecessary reporting and documentation requirements. We believe that a good school requires that qualified teachers and other employees be given time and confidence to follow up each individual student, and to organize the teaching so that students can learn the best way they can. The red-green batches are today also assembled behind a proposal asking the government to ‘ensure that the overall reporting and documentation requirements of the school are reduced’. We also proposed this in the debate on trust reform at school. Unfortunately, it was not adopted at the time, nor is it now being adopted. I believe that this is the most important decision we could make today – addressing the clear challenges of the measurement and testing regime. I don't think we can do this through individual decisions on each test, screening or test, but through a broad-based work of the parties and a professional debate in school and in our knowledge environments on how to do this in a better way. I think it is nice that the government does not listen to the professionals and teachers in this matter. The consultation that we had in the committee showed that a whole sector agrees with the Labour Party and the opposition that one will review the entire system of measurement and testing in Norwegian school. It is strange to me that it seems that the representative from the Right, who is also the case rapporteur, has not read the setting. There it is quite clearly justified what the Workers' Party believes in this matter, and what would become the policy if we had been given the decision and had a majority. Finally, in the event of an incursion, it is stated in the setting that the Workers' Party is behind and shall vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox So we're not going to, it's also reported – it could be a bit eager at the moment of delivery. However, the Labour Party shall vote in favour of what is proposed in the vote No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I would therefore like to mention proposal No. 2 and notify that the Labour Party will not vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1114	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg then outlined the priorities of the Workers' Party and mentioned proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1119	National samples have been completely controversial since their introduction in 2004. If the samples have been modified and improved, there is still considerable criticism of the device and not least their value and their use. It also appeared at the Committee's hearing. The centre batch has also previously made proposals to convert the national samples into sample samples, by 2015. As explained in the proposal and the setting itself, the Centre Party considers that a conversion to sample samples where one goes from the whole year stage to testing a statistical sample of students would be sufficient to provide the authorities with information. At the same time, it could reduce the negative effects of today's regime, and it would also release the time for teachers and puncture the misunderstood ranking of schools resulting from the publication of national tests and their results. It is not surprising that the government parties with the Right in the head defend national tests. Much of the government's school policy is about a foundation of testing and measurement as a basis for school management as well. But it's a little bit surprising that a government that talks about knowledge, chooses such a one-sided and unhealthy approach to this matter, and completely chooses to ignore the negative consequences. In the setting, the Central Party has shown that the national test intentions are not entirely consistent with the actual pedagogical utility value. The centre party believes that there are some ambiguous government guidance signals when creating a voltage ratio between measurable results, such as: what you look at through national tests, and those parts of the school's mission that are not being measured or not measurable, but that are equally important. Such tests are used today, the Centre Party believes that they not only hamper the development of Norwegian schools, but their use also weakens the value of samples both as a quality development tool and as a relevant governance information to policy-makers. With this, I will be allowed to comment on the proposals from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1132	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1137	If there is one thing in the last few weeks in School-Norway that convinced me, it is that the teachers deserve trust – great trust. The crisis we are facing clearly shows how important teachers are in our society, and many teachers have made enormous efforts lately. Schools have gone through a never so small digital revolution, and teachers have gone far, because teachers know how important it is for children to go to school and kindergarten, they know how important it is for children to be part of the community. They've been worried about the kids who don't have it so well at home, who need a lot of follow-up, and who have it extra hard at this time. The school day of the teachers has, in the SV's opinion, been too marked by a need for reporting and documentation. A good school requires that qualified teachers and other adults are given time and confidence to follow up on each individual student, and to organise the teaching so that it is best suited to the individual. For SV, reducing the scope of reporting and evidence at national level is an important part of our school policy. The Directorate-General for Education, Teachers, Researchers and those developing the national tests agree that the national tests cannot be used to measure the quality of teaching. Despite this, student results are used from among others. national tests for the responsibility of the principal and teachers. Then the one class that I had from the 1st to the 4th. Class 4 was in grade 4, I should admit that I used large parts of the spring to prepare the samples that would come in class 5 in the autumn. I knew on a never-ending panic that these samples would be published in the local language. Everyone knew who it was who had these students the last four years before the test. Although this is just my individual experience, I am not in doubt that the publication and ranking of results from national tests increases the school's desire to be able to show good results compared to other schools, and that this in turn affects the educational work and priorities of each school. We need to put an end to the unfortunate ranking of schools and municipalities, and national samples should be sampled.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1150	It's in school that we get education and opportunity for a better future. There's a lot of kids doing a class trip and discovering new talents by themselves. It's at school that children, hopefully, get constructive feedback along the way, so they can compare themselves to others, so that they can get ready in the field, which is important in order to increase their ability to get into the study they want later in life. This assumes that there is something national to compare with, and that it happens regularly, because there is a real struggle about the study places. This document 8 proposes sampling. This will allow schools to compare learning outcomes less frequently. It will also deprive the best schools of the opportunity to maintain a high level over time. At the same time, those schools that score low will lose the opportunity to gain such insight, and thus lose the opportunity to learn from the best. The left is not against teachers having fewer administrative tasks in the form of reporting and documentation requirements. We also agree that no more screening and testing should be carried out than necessary, but this must be done in ways other than reducing the number of national samples. The intention of monitoring and national testing is that there should be one of several tools for school development. This benefits teachers, students, management and school owners. The main goal is to create a better school. The left is safe on the national tests because they are designed to allow teachers to use the results to follow up the students in their work, with in-flight assessment and adapted training. In addition, it has developed its own teaching materials on which schools and individual teachers can rely in this work. The proportion of national samples carried out is high, approximately 93-96 pst. This shows that national tests work well in practice. Schools need different tools to drive quality development. Going from national samples to sample samples can lead to greater differences between schools and classrooms, and the benefits of national samples disappear if they are converted into samples. The information provided by national tests benefits teachers, school owners and students. It is an important tool to measure pupils’ skills at individual level, so that students can get help and organisation within a shorter period of time than the sample can provide. Let's not take that from the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1163	The debate on national tests in primary school welcomes the Christian People's Party. We share the intention of the proposers to look at the use of both screening and national samples today. We also believe that no more screening and national tests should be carried out than necessary and that the intention of these tests should always be clear. That is why we in the Christian People's Party are pleased with a debate that can provide room for both clarifications and clarifications that we believe could be important and necessary for both students, employees and school owners. The intention of today’s national school owner tests is to contribute to good school development locally. For teachers, it is about getting closer to the follow-up and adaptation of the individual student and student groups. Overall, the results of these, if properly used, can contribute to the achievement of one of the school’s most important tasks: that all students are seen and followed up. Another important intention and clarification is that surveys and national tests should be a tool for the development of schools for the benefit of teachers, students, management and school owners, with the clear aim of creating a better school. It's going to be a tool to look for what the student can do, and not what the student can't do. In our opinion, replacing national samples by sample samples is not the solution. They will not be able to say anything about the student’s development over time, nor will they be doing locally in schools that contribute to better or increased learning outcomes among students. For us in the Christian People's Party, the use of national samples is also about more fundamental questions about what the school should be, because everything cannot be measured in quantitative quantities. In Norwegian school, it is also about education, values and attitudes, the ability to cooperate, respect for fellow people and much more. These are values which cannot be measured in a national test or other survey results, but which are nevertheless a central part of the content of the school and also those which are perhaps the most sought-after in the workplace, in friendship and in other social relationships. We should therefore rightly be critical of excessive testing, where the focus is on everything that can be measured. It can quickly become a stumbling block for the qualitylift this government has emphasized, through more focus on the whole human being, values and lifelong life. The Christian People's Party believes that the school of the future should have fewer national tests and, above all, many enough and competent teachers, who can provide students with good education adapted to the individual. However, if the tests are used correctly, they can be an appropriate tool for teachers, school owners and politicians to cope with quality development in school. However, we must not forget that they do not measure everything that is important. I would like to thank the proposers for putting this important debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1180	The national reading, billing and English tests are important tools for creating quality development, transparency and dialogue at all levels of Norwegian school. The proposers will convert the national samples into samples, where only a limited sample of the students will carry out the tests, as we have done, for example. in the PISA studies. It is important that we constantly develop the quality of all the tools used by the school, but I believe that the proposal to convert national samples into sample samples will reduce both the benefit and the relevance of the national samples. Today, when carrying out these tests as full-scale tests, they provide information tailored to the needs of teachers, school leaders, school owners and national authorities. If we change to sample samples, they will mainly provide information at national level. Teachers will therefore lose the opportunity to use national in-flight examinations, school leaders will lose the opportunity to use the tests to develop school quality, and school owners will no longer be able to use the tests for quality development and municipal governance in the same way as they do today. Quality in school is about much more than what is measured through tests and surveys. However, national tests provide a good basis for good dialogue on how children and young people develop reading, billing and English skills. The results of the tests must also be seen in the context of other information that says something about the quality of school. I think dialogue is central to creating a better school, and transparency about the results is a prerequisite for having a good dialogue. Last November we established 40 new curricula for primary and secondary education. This will be the largest change in school content since the 2006 Knowledge Summit. When we make such major changes to the content of the school, we also need to assess whether there is a need for changes in the tools that measure quality and performance. We have just concluded a comprehensive consultation of proposals for new provisions for assessment, examination and examination schemes in the light of the renewal of the profession, and in the light of the recordings, we will facilitate the proper association of examinations and assessment schemes with the curriculum and support the objectives of professional renewal. The Education Directorate is in the process of identifying the need for changes to the soil site and national samples. I have asked for these assessments to be included in the overall review we are going to have of the national quality assessment system, which we are going to do in cooperation with the parties. Unfortunately, this review, which Stortinget has asked for, has been delayed, as both I and the parties have given priority to dealing with the situation in the country and the schools are now in. However, I would like to invite the parties to a discussion about the quality assessment system in the light of the trade renewal as soon as it is practicable. The government has worked with the parties to reduce unnecessary school time use. When we review the national quality assessment system, I would like to emphasise that we find the right balance between the need for information and the reporting requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1198	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1203	One performs an annual survey of 180,000 students in Norwegian school — three full years of schooling. This is a huge amount of time, money and resources spent on it, and yet the Education Directorate's summary is in an analysis of the eighth stage after 2019: "There is no change in the average scale in reading, billing and English from we started to measure development over time until 2019." We measure the status quo in a way, and we use enormous amounts of power on it. The willingness to consider things differently and also to release some of the time currently spent at school and among teachers to carry out these national tests is very small. Does the government really think it can defend itself to test three whole years' coal every year when we see that it almost has no function and also does not lead to any change?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1210	The fact that the results are relatively stable at national level and at an average level, I believe, is an argument that we should have full scale samples and an argument against having samples, as the representative has suggested. It is true that there are no major fluctuations from year to year or between the different hills, but these tests provide very important information both at individual level, at class level, at municipal level and at school level, and that is the whole main point. Of course, it is interesting for the authorities to know how we are in Norwegian school in reading, billing and English. We'll get that information, for example. The PISA study, so if there's something we're going to take away from the national tests, it's actually this information to national authorities. However, the information that teachers receive in order to follow up students or to follow up their class, for example, is lost, and thus an important aspect of the national tests is also lost if the representative is proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1217	The teachers' organisations themselves do not agree with the Council of State in that respect. They are very critical at the time when the cancers used on national samples do not result in any particular exclusion. Now we're in a situation where we've had closed schools for several weeks, and especially for students who need adapted training, there's going to be a lot of lost time to be taken back. Teachers will need time to be able to follow the students up extra closely for the next six months to avoid them losing something permanently on their schooling. Could it be relevant for the government not to spend as much time and effort on national tests the next year as it has done, so cut it out for a year, and rather use the resources and time of the teachers to actually follow up the children who have now returned to school after closed schools for several weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1224	I have to say, I have a little bit of a hard time understanding the perspective here. If there's a time we really need to monitor the students, it's now, after the schools have been closed for six weeks, and even longer for the oldest students. I think it's very important that the schools right now sit down and look at how the students are doing. I am fully aware that most teachers are able to do this in a good way and have many suitable tools to do so, but there is no doubt that a quality-proof, national system that is used throughout the country, and made by researchers who have a high level of competence in this, is a very good guide for all teachers to use. I also react to this with the time spent. Now I don't remember just how long a national sample lasts, whether it's 60 or 90 minutes, but it's relatively limited time. The representative Gudmundsen was also involved in that during his speech. During a school student's long life in Norwegian school, we spend a small amount of time on these national tests, which is a good tool to know how to give the adapted education to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1239	I'm a little surprised that the Council of State doesn't see that issue. The National Association of Schools has pointed out that we have now been in a situation where at least some of the students, especially those who need adapted training, may have lost some of their school closures. They have said that you need extra resources, and that you should preferably have a separate school action package for the next six months in order to actually be able to follow up those students who need it most. At the same time, we put our teachers, who have a lot of tasks to do in common, in a situation where they will follow up those students who may now have lost something and need extra follow-up, while at the same time spending time and effort on national tests the next year. It surprises me that the Council of State does not see that we are about to read Norwegian schools and Norwegian teachers with tasks, and that this is actually an opportunity to relieve the schools during the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1244	What must be the starting point for good, adapted training is that teachers are monitoring their students. It is very difficult to provide adapted training if you do not know how the students know. Although there are many different mapping tools, they are also of very variable quality. There is no doubt that the mapping tools available to us here, both through the lowest-level screening tests and the national tests for the fifth, eighth and ninth stages, are very good tools for teachers to assess what action is to be taken. There are also very many teachers who are positive for national tests, and research has shown us very clearly that the teachers who know the most about how to use national tests are also those who have the greatest benefits and are most positive to them. And those who have leaders and leadership groups who are good at following this up are very positive to national tests and see that it provides a very good starting point for adapted training.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1251	I am pleased with the signals from the Council of State that a work will be started on the quality assessment system. It is important for the parties to be involved in this cooperation, I am pleased with that too. At present, there is considerable uncertainty about the proper functioning of national tests and several adverse reactions were identified in the consultation round. This does not mean that we in SV believe that today's tests are useless, or that they absolutely do not contribute to the development of the school, but we believe that another device can provide us with better tools to follow up each student and further develop the school. It is high time to discuss how we can improve the national tests and the quality development system as a whole. Will the State Council take this discussion now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1258	I myself was present at the oral hearing that was organized here at the Stortinget. What was striking in that hearing was that all the heaviest competences we have in basic skills, both accounting, reading and writing, were very clear that the national tests are an incredibly important tool that we need in Norwegian school to ensure the quality of all children. But I'm not refusing to look at how we can further develop this tool. I also said in my post that this is a work that the government has started. The Granavolden platform also says that we need to further develop the quality tools we have in Norwegian school. Among other things, we must: adapt them to professional renewal. It's very important. Obviously, it's not cut in stone just when it's best to do these tests, and if we need to try out other areas. It took place at the hearing, among others. called for national tests in writing. So, of course, I'm open to having a debate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1263	Several of the teachers I'm in contact with experience that other tests are more accurate, and that they need more and better diagnostic tools than today's mandatory national tests. They believe that it is urgent to develop tests that are tailored to serve as good educational tools for teachers, and that teachers and schools themselves could have used when needed. More and more teachers have asked for trust, and as I was inside my post, the teachers have really shown themselves to be worthy of trust over the past few weeks. Governments have also stood up in a very demanding time for Norwegian school. Did not Norwegian teachers deserve the government to show them that trust now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1271	I fully agree with the representative Fagerås that the teachers have really shown themselves to be worthy of trust, and I really believe that it is the confidence of the teachers, the school leaders and the school owners we base our policies on by the government. With the promise of knowledge, we had a strong simplification of curricula, but it was also important to have some tools to monitor development and have a good dialogue on quality development. Through the renewal of the profession, the curriculum has been further reduced, and it gives a significantly greater freedom for the individual teacher and school. Not least, we also have full freedom of method in Norwegian school. I think it's important to clarify what the national tests are. The national samples are not a diagnostic tool. You're going to have to do your own tests. This was also clarified in the consultation of those with special pedagogical competence. These tests are very good for the general competence of all children, but if these tests clarify the special needs of children, diagnostic tools are clearly needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1278	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speech of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1285	National tests are a very important tool to improve the quality of Norwegian schools, school owners, school leaders and teachers. And I wish that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre would have been interested in discussing how to use these tools in a good way in all schools in all municipalities instead of discussing how to keep secret and explain results at school level. Let me be very clear: no one claims that national samples measure everything. It's nothing that can measure everything in Norwegian school. National tests, however, map students’ reading understanding, skills in science, English and mathematics. In the hearing, it became very clear that it is not possible to chew or cheat to the point of reading — rather on the contrary. So I don't have a problem with the schools working with literacy or preparing students' skills in science or English. In contrast to what the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre claim, reading, math, English and natural sciences are not a narrow part of the school's broad societal mission. Rather the opposite: Reading is a basic skill to permeate all subjects. We have numbers that show that there is a direct link between how to do it on national tests in fifth grade, and who can complete high school. If there is no transparency about results at school level, a school may, year after year, send away students who have not achieved their main right, and local politicians may waive responsibility and leave the teachers and the principals behind. Then there are also major differences between classrooms and between schools. Not least, we also lose the opportunity to learn from those who succeed. Let me underline that, that's what's the point. A good school is a good team game. It's not right, as Arnstad's representative says, that it's been the status quo. On the contrary, many municipalities have worked very well with quality development over several years, used information about students' learning actively, discussed the teaching of a good professional community and were able to help more students. Nord-Osterdal is a very good example of that. They have not got better results because they have been lucky with the student composition year after year. They have had better results because they have used results in quality development. I think it is a bit surrealistic that the Workers' Party is unable to answer whether they are in favour of or against national tests, or at least whether they are in favour of the principle that there should be transparency about results at school level. Once again, it is impossible to know what the Workers' Party believes about central school policy issues, once again they turn their heads after the wind. Putting down a selection after the election because they are unable to fill the so-called trust reform with a single concrete proposal before the election, I think it's quite hollow. That means you ride two horses at once. I hope that the Workers' Party can also see the value of having knowledge of the school, and that we can stand together to pursue good quality development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1298	National tests are part of the national quality assessment system, as has been said here several times, and it has gradually become very extensive and mature for revision. In addition to the national tests, others are included – an international study in which Norway participates, there are character-supporting tests, the mandatory screening tests and the voluntary screening tests, examination results and national supervision. And in addition, a number of municipalities have introduced their own screening tests and systems. The centre party is for openness and information, but has long warned against target management and the extent of testing in the school, and as the representative Fagerås said: time and trust. It impresses us when parents and teachers tell us how the goal management and the test regime affect teaching, not least how it affects the student’s self-image. What has made me do this work and by following the debate is how both the media, schoolteachers and sometimes some teachers overestimate what can be read from the results. Every year, the same thing happens: both regional and national media clear up gaps and rank municipalities as if they were NM in school – and the same in local media, where a ranking comes even closer to the individuals behind the results, the students and the teachers. And when the tests themselves are tailor-made for comparison between schools, combined with a requirement of openness, the road is open to public ranking. When local view refers to the results of the schools in the municipality and neighbouring municipalities, it automatically creates an idea of which schools are good, or correspondingly less good. As these ratings are presented in the media, the impression is that national tests measure the quality of education at each school and in each municipality. This happens despite the fact that most schoolworkers are some of the people who do national tests that do not measure quality. It is clear that this affects those who work at the school in good and bad, both teachers and principals, but not least it affects students in good and bad, who, through the media and the focus on the exercise in front, feel that their performance is suspended on a public drying line. In smaller schools, many of which we have, with relatively few elephants, this becomes rapidly transparent. When it says in local terms that your class is the worst class in the state, I don't think it creates either motivation or mastering for the student. This creates unnecessary pressure and stress, and the Center Party believes that publishing the samples only at home. Converting national samples to selection samples will degrade for these very unfortunate side effects. A statistics are sufficient instead of national ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1309	We cannot close our eyes, as the majority in this room now does, when research and evaluation show that many teachers do not think that the tests are good enough tools to follow up the students. This debate should be based on two general questions: What kind of information do national and local authorities need to develop the school further? And what kind of tools do teachers need to provide students with the best possible education? So today's national tests have to fulfil two purposes at once. They shall provide management information at national and municipal level, which allows comparison of results between municipalities and between schools, and shall also provide teachers with a tool to help each student to progress. There is a difference between providing professional feedback to individual students and providing overall information on average performance levels, which can be used to compare schools and municipalities. I do not want to accept that the premise that it is possible to compare the results across schools and municipalities is the main reason why the tests are of limited value to the teachers. The standardisation required by the comparison results in teachers getting much less and more uncertain information about the students they need the most information about, namely those who cut different things from the average. When the representative Tybring-Gjedde spoke about secrecy as something negative, I would refer to other Nordic countries, which have put down a 'need-to-know' principle for their tests, i.e. made the information available to those who are going to use it. But in Norway, it is free to use the tests to rank schools and municipalities. Such rankings and comparisons give the national tests the final objective of the quality of education at each school in each municipality. All of us who work with school agree that education quality is something much more complex – aren't we? Many professionals warn against rankings and competition between schools based on national tests. Such use of the tests not only inhibits the development of Norwegian schools but also weakens the value of the tests as quality development tools and as relevant governance information to policy-makers. If the samples had been converted into samples, we would mitigate these very unfortunate side effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1324	I think we have to admit that unless we keep all the information about Norwegian school secret, what we leave public could be abused. This does not mean that the examination has been arranged to give a complete picture of the knowledge that students have. It has not been said on the part of the undersigned that national tests are a complete tool that gives a complete picture of the situation at each school, in each class or for that matter for each student. The point here is that the sum of the tools we have in Norwegian school, and the debate and insight that we as a society can get through dissent, through analysis, by playing in the research environment: that's what helps us to do that we have development in Norwegian school – and that's what I want for my children, is that we have development in Norwegian school. The world is developing, Norway needs to develop too. That means that we're always going to go further and have greater ambitions for our children, and then I think it's quite obvious that we're going to have a word change that helps to figure out how to get there. When I listen to the debate here in the Chamber so far, it seems that the government has done nothing to reduce the number of time thieves or reduce the bureaucracy in Norwegian school. So it's like we've taken a number of steps. We have removed a mandatory screening test, we have reduced reporting requirements, and what has happened as a result? It has been met with criticism from the opposition. I have been through debates here earlier in the Chamber asking to increase reporting requirements that have been reduced, because it is believed that important information is lost – without anyone pointing out whether to cut other reporting requirements or to remove other tests. I think that's a little bit of the dilemma we're in here now: when you come up with criticism, but to a little bit of an alternative, it gets really pretty hollow. I want to say that the most important thing we do now for Norwegian school is that we follow up the innovation in a good way, and that we – of course – follow up the national quality assessment system and get a good review of it, so that we get a framework around it that keeps the balance between sufficient information up to the national tools that we need to implement in order to have enough knowledge of the school. I believe that the Council of State here today has signaled very well that you want to follow up on that work, which is also a point in the Granavolden platform. But what is a bit striking in this debate is that it is very difficult to grasp what the Workers' Party thinks about the future of national tests, and it would have been interesting to know – so you also know what is red-green policy in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1337	The reason why I asked for the word again is that I just don't know myself completely in the reality description that part of the opposition parties come with, especially the Center Party. To describe Norwegian school as a kind of test regime and as strongly influenced by target management — it is not my picture of Norwegian school at all. I have been following the Norwegian school debate very closely since I myself took teacher training in the early 2000s. I have also visited a number of schools in a number of municipalities, and I really do not know this picture. Of course, I do not exclude that there are individual cases where national tests are used completely incorrectly, but that is not the picture of Norwegian school. I thought I'd say a little bit about what national tests are actually used for. At national level, national samples include: led to some major bets, including: quite a lot of efforts at reading, for which there has obviously been a great need, and for which there is also a need that we still have. It has also led to real science, assessment quality and a number of areas in which Norwegian schools have developed in a truly positive direction over the last 20 years. Individual teachers can also use the results of national tests to assess a number of professional issues, including: whether the class has the skills of accounting and reading that they need. For example, you need: more focus on measurement and geometry, yes, then you can focus on it, then you have a basis for conducting customised training. Here you can see whether individual livers are struggling with certain sub-areas, e.g. whether there are text types in reading a student strives with, or whether one is motivated by some text types. We showed some of these test sets in the hearing, and it turned out that these are tests that are really close to what the curriculum wants you to work with, among other things. using authentic texts, something textbooks use very little. Then, of course, school leaders can use the results to assess how the school does it in reading, billing and English, and how the school's results have evolved over time. In the fall, among other things, I was visiting Bangsund school in Namsos. They were very proud, they wanted to tell me that now they had heard that the results of the national tests in reading came. They were so happy, because they had had a systematic bet on reading over several years, and now they knew that those tests were going to give very good results. It also made them have arguments for continuing that bet, to continue the bet on, among other things. school library and own reading guides at that school. What I think the opposition here is about is that we should not acquire knowledge about the school, not at the student level, not at the class level, not at the municipality level, not at the national level. I have to say that I think is very strange, all the time the knowledge we've acquired in recent years has given us very useful information to develop Norwegian school further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1354	In the debate, it seems that we in the committee should perhaps have had a reading test on the setting. It is quite clear that the representatives from the Right have not done their homework and read the setting well enough. The working party is for national samples. We're too transparent, and it had to be a red-green government to change the ranking system that the Right, when they were in government, introduced. But it's strange that you can't see the context of this debate, where we want to listen to the experts, listen to the teachers and have a thorough review of the test and measurement system, and then you'll at the same time pre-conclusion on the outcome after such a review. I think I hear, fortunately, the Council of State say that the system we have today is not perfect. But what's special about today's debate is that the right is riding old cappists, and running a debate with skyscrapers. What became clear to me in this debate today is that it has had some consequences that the Right has had so great skyscrapers in this discussion and has simply been the act of a party. I think it's a pleasure to hear State Council Melby today. It clearly shows that the change of government council in the Ministry of Knowledge has had something to say about the government's approach to this matter. Finally, it becomes clear that, as the Stortinget has asked, an overall work is being done on both the NKVS and the exam, which the Right has fought against. Luckily, this is happening with a Left Council. Not least, it is gratifying that the Council of State announces that the parties will now join – a clear line change in relation to the Right Drive when they had the Council of State, where the parties were not allowed to participate in this work. We've always said from the opposition and the Workers' Party that you should have done this before. This is a work that you should have done in parallel with the trade renewal. As the teachers have also said, these things are closely related. And when the innovation is about to be introduced into school from the fall, one should have looked at the National Quality Assessment System, and the exam before that, so that this could have worked together. But it is now very happy that it seems that you should go through it and do that work, and not least that the parties should be involved in it. Then I expect the discussion to continue with the Right, with their skylights, but the world goes on in the Ministry of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1365	There are a few of the claims in this debate that have to be commented on. The representative Tybring-Gjedde shows that the Center Party does not think that mathematics, Norwegian, English and natural sciences are important subjects. Obviously, we think it is important subjects, but one does not have to agree with the Right when it comes to national tests in order to believe that they are important subjects. The representative Gudmundsen says that those who do not want national tests do not want development in Norwegian school. Unfortunately, we want development in Norwegian school, we just think that the national tests are given an over-enlarged function in the management of Norwegian school, for which there is no basis. We believe that what the government is doing is giving national tests the status of a quality marker, despite the fact that very many professional bodies believe that the results of national tests are no fascist over the quality of education or the quality of each school. No, we don't want to do anything secret. Our option is not to conclude national tests, but to reduce their scope in such a way as to meet the information needs of national authorities, i.e. through sample samples. With regard to the information needs of each school, I am happy to hear about teachers who have had an aha experience when the results of the national tests come. I think the teachers have a pretty good overview of the situation in the class, which students score high, medium or low. Teachers demand more tools to tailor their efforts to individual livers. By reducing the scope of national tests, one could actually free up time and resources to meet what teachers actually need and demand. I think the results of national tests are being used in a way that is not justified. Now they are to be included as an indicator in the calculation of the school contribution indicators and their use, and are to be included in the assessment of a lower school quality limit, the use of guidance corps and a follow-up scheme for poor-performing municipalities. Yes, but then one uses national tests — far beyond that, there is a basis for doing so. So the tests, if they only give a time frame, and only measure some of the students' knowledge and skills, should be used in practice to put schools and teachers under administration, and the Centre Party considers this to be unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1378	I have to say I am a little surprised at the debate, because I have visited several workers' party and centre party-driven municipalities that use national tests in a good way to drive quality development in their schools. I mentioned North-Easterdal instead. There are several municipalities that have been part of a project called Quality Competence, which have just used screening tests and information from them actively in teaching – not because it was an aha experience for teachers, but because it allows you to improve over time, for example. The student's understanding of reading. It may well be that the Center Party believes it is important subject – Norwegian, natural sciences and math. But the challenge is that their argument is that too much time is spent on it, that national tests are controlling. I believe, on the contrary, that it can be a tool for raising students' skills. There is a need not only for national information to guide national samples. The main purpose of national tests is to be able to use them to further develop the quality of schools. We have moved resources of competence and decentralised them down to counties and municipalities. If you are going to turn national samples into sample samples, you really want to deprive the municipalities of knowledge about how they are doing with their students, what they need to work with, and what quality they need to develop. If I understood the Labour Party correctly, they're for national tests, they're for transparency, but they haven't pre-concluded that they can't be for national tests and not be for transparency after they've got a sample and talked to the parties after the election. It's a very confusing attitude to national tests. It may be appropriate to review the national quality assessment system. That's fine, but you have to answer if you're basically in order to have information about the results of the students at school and municipality level. When the Education new interviewer Tvedt Solberg asked how many students would participate in national tests, that is, what we are discussing today – there should be samples or samples to be carried out – the representative replied that the Workers' Party had not concluded and was still in the mindbox. I believe there is a big difference between this and wanting to review the quality assessment system. I think it's smart to look at how to use national samples in a better way more places. Obviously, teachers are more positive the more active they are using it, but I don't think you should take away the national test function for information about some students and some schools. This is where the Workers' Party is standing in a spagate that I think is very unfortunate, because they're going to cooperate with two parties that want to remove national samples and the function they have today. That is what I wish you had been told, at least before the election. I actually think the voters deserve that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1393	It is sometimes difficult to take the criticism from the Right seriously in this particular case – simply because they have, in several such cases, put themselves on a debate style that is about saying that other parties have an unclear position, have not decided and do not know what to mean, when the opposite is the case, and when they have been answered several times. It's also a little boring/unreasonable debate technique to accuse a party of a position they don't have, and to sabotage different positions. If you want to promote criticism of someone, you should criticise those who have that point of view, and not everyone else. It has also been said from the pulpit here today that the Labour Party is not against national tests. Nor are we in favour of any proposal in this case to remove national samples or to convert them into sample samples. We are not too secret of the result either. So the Labour Party is to have good information about the school at both national and local level, but not more than necessary. What we want is a debate on just developing the national quality assessment system. It may include national tests and how to make them more learning-supporting and improve the tool they are – as a help to teachers in teaching to support students. I just have to remind Right that there had to be a red-green government to change the system of national tests in order to avoid a clean ranking of schools and to create peace around national tests. After Kristin Clement and Right's experiment with national tests, there were strong protests among teachers and rivers, and it was boycotted by national tests. In 2005, the OECD even scrapped national samples and put them on ice because they could lead to a spiral of decline for schools with problems. That's what they fixed up. Since 2013 and up to 2020, the Right has managed the Ministry of Knowledge – for seven years – without having enough time to do with reporting, documentation requirements and time thieves. Time thieves continue to live well after seven years with the Right in the State Council chair. If it is necessary to review the situation of schools and teachers, it is both to listen to teachers and to remove time thieves and also to listen to students, teacher students and research communities to make changes to national tests and to the national quality assessment system. I think it is a pity that the government has not done what the teachers asked for, and as the Workers' Party and the opposition proposed in the Stortinget, namely to have a comprehensive review of the national quality assessment system before implementing the trade renewal, so that the two things actually fit together and gave teachers better working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1407	I would like to thank you for the debate. I want to clear up a little bit. There is no doubt that when one claims from the pulpit that the Right bases other positions for example. The political position of the Labour Party, you do the same to us, because there is no doubt that Jan Tore Sanner, when he was Minister of Knowledge, has been inside this room and said that a natural follow-up to the renewal of the trade union is, of course, to look at the national quality assessment system. It's been said by us all along, but these things have to happen in the right order of course. That is also what has been done by the government, and I think the Council of State Guri Melby is following this up in a very exemplary way. That has been mapped out in the debate so far today. Then there's also something about the story. Once upon a time, it took a promise of knowledge, a reform such as the promise of knowledge, in Norwegian school, to change the way we approached the knowledge policy in Norway. You actually had a very schoolbook-driven day-to-day, where you didn't have a very good and deep understanding of how things were going in the individual schools. It was precisely the reform and development of national tests that gave us this tool. At the time, the then State Council, Clamet, was very clear that these tests had to be further developed, something that was also used for research. Then there was a change of government, as we all know, and I know that the red-green government followed this up and had this case for treatment, among other things. in the Storting, where the Right also stated that it was right to develop these samples, so that they became a better tool. That's really the core of what we're discussing here today: the desire that we have the best tools for Norwegian school, so that we politicians have the best starting point when we're going to allocate resources and lay laws and frameworks for how Norwegian school can stretch and get better. But then we have to have both these tools and this knowledge, so that society, we, the school owners, the teachers and not least the parents and the individual students can see the same picture and participate in the same debate with the same premises. I think that is a very important principle. I believe that the majority today is firm – I am pleased about that. And then, of course, we can take the details about the further follow-up of the quality assessment system in the hall when the work has progressed further. I look forward to all of us helping to get the best possible toolbox for the school, because it deserves our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1418	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. Before we go to the handling of case No. 9, the President will state that we have some technical problems that need to be corrected. I guess there's something about the sound. We have to take a tiny little break in a couple of minutes, so we'll have to fix it, before we start dealing with case no. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1446	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1451	We are now considering two Document 8 proposals, from representatives of the Centre Party and the SV respectively. In addition, this case includes the statement made by the Health Minister for Stortinget on 15 January of this year. In summary, the Centre Party proposes in Document 8:28 S for 2019-2020 that the State should take over the air ambulance service as soon as possible and that it should become an integral part of its other ambulance and emergency services. In summary, SV in Document 8:30 S for 2019-2020 proposes that the State should take over the service of an ambulance as soon as possible, that the State acquire an approved air carrier operating an ambulance, that the State terminate the contract with Babcock, which is currently operating, and that Babcock take its share of the additional costs of the ambulance flight service. On 15 January, the Minister of Health presented the situation in the ambulance service. The Committee decided to examine these three matters together, since they have so many similarities. This matter should have been dealt with in Stortinget a long time ago, but was exposed as a result of the corona virus, which has been understood by all parties. Air ambulances are an important part of the emergency medical chain, and especially important to be able to provide good emergency medical services in those parts of our country that have great distances to hospitals. In parts of the country, aeroplanes and helicopters are the only current means of transport in emergency conditions. The time factor is crucial for the outcome of treatment for too many patients. Lack of availability of air ambulances can lead to the ultimate loss of life. It is regrettable that the transition between old and new operator has not gone as well as it should and should have. During the transitional period, they were unable to deliver the standard and quality to our citizens. There are many reasons why the transition has not gone so well. An expert group has been set up to look at the future organisation of the air ambulance service. It is natural that they evaluate parts of what happened at the operator change as part of their basis for making a recommendation on the future operating mode. The Expert Group shall be completed by the end of 2020. They shall consider different models for the operational operation of the air ambulance service, such as the current model with tenders, the public service model and the model with the operation of non-profit actors. The advantages, disadvantages and risks of the different models shall be described, but the group is free to recommend a model. The expert team shall look at both aeroplanes and helicopters. The outcome can therefore have a significant impact on the ideal Norwegian Air ambulance Foundation, as well as on commercial operators. We in the Right would therefore call on the expert group to assess in particular how a Norwegian organisation of the air ambulance service would affect non-profit actors such as Norsk Luftambulance. For more than 40 years, Norwegian Air Ambulance has been an exceptionally important contributor to the innovation and development of emergency preparedness, prehospital services and air operations, which also assist defence, rescue helicopters and police helicopters. A large part of this development has taken place precisely because the foundation is simultaneously the operator of the helicopter ambulance service. When assessing the state operation of the air ambulance, the expert group should also consider whether the defence should operate the service, as they operate the rescue helicopter service. I think it will be very unfortunate with two different forms of government operating that offer employees different salaries, different pensions, different employment and leisure arrangements, etc. We need to be aware that today's tendering system allows patients to offer new and modern aircraft and helicopters, unlike what has been the practice in the State rescue helicopter service, which operates the nearly 50-year-old Sea King helicopters. In comparison with the air ambulance tendering system, the acquisition project of the State to replace Sea King has taken 13 years. The Central Party proposes that the air ambulance service should become an integral part of the healthcare industry’s other ambulance and emergency services. If I understand the proposal correctly, each healthcare company will operate its own airline, which I think will be unfortunate in a lot of areas. Not least, such a proposal underestimates the complexity and requirements of operating an air carrier, because we must not forget that the requirements of the Air Safety Authority apply equally, regardless of whether the operator is private or public. It will be very bureaucratic and cost-effective for each health business to operate its own carrier. Increased costs are taken from the same health budget and therefore harm patients. Today's tendering system has absolute potential for improvement. The experience gained from the last tenders must help to improve the quality of the next tender and significantly improve the transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1484	The size is currently examining several proposals related to the recent crisis in the air ambulance service, including the Minister of Health's presentation to the Stortinget on 15 January. The reason why we're doing this now is the special situation the whole country is in, but the matter has to go through the Storting. This Christmas winter was the preparedness of the Air Ambulance so weakened that Health Nord chose to set a crisis loss. We have known for a long time about the personnel problems associated with the transition to a new company and the lack of training of new pilots. At the top came the technical problems with new planes. The Labour Party clearly believes that the government has not taken these challenges sufficiently seriously. During the debate on the throne in October 2019, the Prime Minister stated that there is ‘better preparedness in the air ambulance service now than it was in the past because we have strengthened the air ambulance’. The Minister of Health has also repeatedly rejected the fact that it was a crisis. There have been several events that have weakened people's confidence in service. The personnel situation and technical deficiencies have led to a generally weakened standby and to almost half of the aeroplanes not operating during some periods. There have been engine problems, challenges related to navigation equipment, lack of back-watching system and recruitment problems for new operators. This has led to bases being issued on a regular basis, even though it is now a little late. The opposition to the Storting has repeatedly expressed concerns about the specific personnel situation, both for pilots and technicians, and about the ability to operate from all bases during takeover. On its own initiative, health surveillance has started system monitoring of the air ambulance service. The government has not initiated an evaluation or review of patient safety while the emergency malfunction of the air ambulance service has been ongoing. Health professionals in North Norway and the county doctor in Troms and Finnmark have primarily addressed and notified of a risk to patient safety. The reporting system has not worked satisfactorily, it can be said, and both the State Council and the Prime Minister have stated several times in Stortinget that the situation in the air ambulance service has not had an impact on patients. Extra measures have been put in place in the form of helicopters and jet aeroplanes. The helicopter in Kirkenes is now determined to be maintained on a permanent basis. It's very good, but there's still a need to secure enough personnel, so we don't get one with regular interviews because of staff shortages. With the corona epidemic, the transportation of personnel to and from bases also poses some challenges. The use of the Defense helicopter in Kirkenes has been an important support, and it has saved lives. We know that. The working party is now primarily concerned with maintaining safety and ensuring the service on a sustainable basis. In today's situation, people stay at home to avoid infection, and the service operates in a special state, as in the whole country. Now that the more acute situation for this part of the service is under control, the next step should be to ensure that the tendering regime, which is not functioning, is properly liquidated based on knowledge of risks. In 2018, the majority required an investigation into a state acquisition or continued non-profit operation. The group that is now working, where the Council of State has not included the trade unions or personnel from operational service in the sample, is working on this process. In the Working Party, we're critical of the composition of that sample. A state acquisition has been clear that we want for the future. It can take a lot of forms, and we need a proper investigation of that. With that, I would like to promote the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1503	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1508	When these air ambulance preparedness issues were discussed in the Health and Care Committee before Christmas, we were in the midst of a difficult situation. The situation was handled and taken seriously, including by the Minister of Health. Measures were put in place to strengthen preparedness, and the service is currently functioning as expected. There have been challenges with the preparedness of the Ambulance Aviation Service both before and after the operator change in 2019. The varying preparedness has led to uncertainty in the population, and that is very regrettable. The only interest of the Progress Party in this matter is to ensure good air ambulance preparedness for the population. A relevant ex post discussion of the weakened preparedness in 2019 will be about juss: Who was responsible, who complied, and who broke the contract in this process? And not least, how should we prevent this situation from happening again? A discussion that is not relevant is about the state operation of ambulance aeroplanes. The Progress Party sees no need to build a state-owned company for aircraft and helicopters. The state has no experience with that. Such a transition will be extremely time consuming and will definitely create new risks and uncertainties in the ambulance service. There is simply no reason to believe that the public will succeed in such a task. Therefore, the Progress Party is not going to support any proposals that are about public services to be provided more than today and that are better for the private sector. The central party's criticism of the current operator of the air ambulance is hollow. The fact that the current operator, Babcock, experienced technical challenges with its new aircraft in December 2019 is not something for which the company can be charged. Four planes were put on the ground with the same fault indication. It lasted 12 days, but during this period, extra resources were put in place to maintain preparedness. During Christmas, the company experienced acute sick leave. The replacement staff was in place the next day. Nor is this something for which you can load the operator. So it's not like if the state were the owner, they would have been the guardian of aviation technology challenges and medical reports. Why this should be used as an argument for the state to take over the operation of air ambulance aeroplanes is completely incomprehensible to me. In this case, there have been many different actors who have a political interest in the failure of Babcock and who have done exactly what they can to prevent this. It is a pity because it should be in everyone's interest to ensure that the security and preparedness of our citizens are the best possible. In the hearing of the Health and Care Committee, it was found that LAT HF experienced that the former operator, Air Transport AS, had not followed up the contractual intentions to contribute to a smooth transition to Babcock, which was to take over the contract. Air Transport AS was obliged to cooperate with the new operator in order to achieve a seamless transition, but it is not the experience with which you are left today. Babcock was denied access to take over one and one base, as they had wanted, and a gradual transition. Instead, they had to take over seven bases only 16 hours before the start of the contract. So in 16 hours they were going to rig for equipment, set up technical services and ensure that 91 employees were trained to fly Babcock's own aircraft. It is obvious that this led to start-up problems for the new operator, start-up problems that were not self-inflicted. This has LAT HF expressed their desire to ensure better next time. And it is very critical that the former operator, Air Transport AS, has exposed people in Norway to unnecessary risks by not contributing to a smooth transition to a new operator. In the course of this process, the Progress Party has clearly demonstrated that the situation needs to be closely monitored and that action has to be taken to ensure the security of preparedness of those living and living in Finnmark. The progress team believes that the experience around this process shows that there is a need to have a permanent ambulance helicopter stationed in Kirkenes and a jet plane stationed in Tromsø. We have long signaled that we will make concrete proposals on this in the National Health and Hospital Plan. There is a process that was otherwise postponed due to the covid-19 situation, but has received a new date for treatment in Stortinget on 12 May. It may seem that the government has listened and will seize. So once again, to substantiate the argument as to why the state should not establish state-owned airline for aircraft and helicopters, this is something that the state has no experience with. Since the establishment of national air ambulance services — in 1988, under the then Harlem Brundtland administration — the service has been operated by private operators. The center party seems to be convinced that if it had only been public owned, all the services provided would automatically be good. Such an entry point is not a team, so the Progress Party insists that establishing a state-owned airline is not something we are going to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1531	First, a comment on the previous speaker: it is not the former operator who has exposed the Norwegian population to a health risk. It is the scandalous public supply process that has led to it. The centre party believes that the provision and deployment of the basic preparedness and infrastructure of society as the air ambulance service is so risky that it is not justified to continue in this way. Thus, during the last outsourcing from healthcare professionals, the assignment was given to an enterprise that in practice only existed on paper, which lacks its own established organisation, own pilots, own technical staff and own aircraft at the time of the conclusion of the contract. The application to transfer the contract from the Swedish Babcock company to the Norwegian subsidiary was sent as late as 30 May 2019, and the transfer of the contract took place as late as 28 June 2019, just two days before the change of operator. The council has previously stated that there was neither or is anything to suggest that Babcock would not be able to meet the obligations they had set out in their own offer. It is alarming that the government failed in so many warnings to detect the clear signals of the widespread failure of the preparedness to which we have witnessed. On the contrary, it appeared that the Council of State was satisfied with the risk assessments it carried out. The self-promotion process is strongly criticised, among other things. in order not to require a transfer of personnel, not to facilitate effective competition and not to have carried out a vulnerability and risk analysis. In addition, the director of Health Nord was criticized for instability, and she also withdrew later from the position. The supply from Babcock was assessed as satisfactory in terms of quality despite the fact that they could not demonstrate previous experience and operation. They scrambled the worst on standby and delivered an offer with fewer pilots and fewer spare aircraft than their competitors. The supply was at 47 million. kr below what was added as air transport per year. At the centre was the pay and working conditions for those added. Director of LAT HF, Øyvind Juell, stated in the Alta Post in February 2018: ‘Tender competitions contribute to innovation in many areas, including pay and working conditions for employees.’ When a host is awarded a contract after delivery of the worst on standby, no one should be surprised that a person experiences poor preparedness, as we have done. The emergency selection warned early in 2015, when they submitted their report, that there is a risk that the operator switching to the air ambulance service will break with the good interaction between the operator and health care providers over many years when entering into new contracts. The report further states that the air ambulance service is at risk and that interaction is a prerequisite for the safe implementation of the mission. The distribution also pointed out that it is important to ensure good public control of critical societal functions and that it is important to minimise economic and operational risks by outsourcing air ambulances. What we've experienced in the last few years is quite the opposite. We haven't minimized economic and operational risk, but we've done the opposite. Today, the centre party proposes, together with the Labour Party, that: ‘The Government is asking the Government to prepare for the public operation of the air ambulance services as soon as possible, so that it becomes an integral part of the other ambulance services and emergency medical emergency services, and to return to Stortinget on its own initiative.’ We also, together with the SV and the Labour Party, make the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to provide an appropriate overview of the economic, preparedness and health consequences and deviations resulting from the tendering process of the Air ambulance Air Traffic Service and the 2019 operator exchange.’;» For it is still uncertain whether Babcock will pay the costs of the emergency failure caused by the health service. We also propose, together with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, to ask the government to ensure that a back-up system for pilots is set up immediately, which was actually contractual, and we ask that the mandate of the expert group be extended to clarify how a public takeover of the air ambulance service should be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1556	Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen had reintroduced the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1561	The crisis in the north would never happen. It was supposed to be safe public operation. When you first chose to commercialise the offer further, you would never have liked these requirements, or with a lack of business transfer requirements. And when it first happened, you would never have chosen offers based on price and not quality. This service has been in an ongoing crisis. The Minister of Health is responsible. The government is responsible. This debate has been a long one. It was the last big debate for me before I was admitted to a blood poisoning hospital. I was lucky. My ambulance was not in a tendering process, and there was no fault on the machine, so the ambulance could run. I don't know if I would have lived if I had had blood poisoning in Finnmark when the crisis was at worst. There has been uncertainty in North Norway since the start of the ambulance chaos. We cannot risk jeopardizing vulnerable and vital services. This is not a suitable area for competition and tenders. It requires responsible governance and stability. The government should ensure the state operation of the air ambulance service. It was a serious error not to ensure business transfer. It put the whole service on the line. But I'm very happy that the pilots have won the court. There was a crushing sentence against Babcock and the pilots. Babcock hasn't delivered. They have not complied with the obligations of the contract. Babcock has to pay for what they haven't followed up. Every month we lose skilled, good people in the air ambulance service to other jobs. We have to act now. The government should prepare a proposal to ensure the state operation of the air ambulance service. We should terminate the contract with Babcock, and they should contribute aircraft and personnel. It's a refund for all the problems they haven't followed up. The crisis in the north would never happen. It was supposed to be safe public operation. When you first chose to commercialise the offer further, it would never have been easy with these requirements. The Minister of Health is responsible. The government is responsible. The air ambulance service is not suitable for competition and tenders. It requires responsible governance and stability. We have to take the air ambulance service back to the state. The security of people in the north is threatened. Had this happened in the East, I think the crisis had been solved a long time ago. I want to change a word in proposal No. 6, from the ‘air ambulance service’ to the ‘air ambulance service’. I am promoting the proposals from the SV. SV will vote subsidiaryly for proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1584	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1589	Air ambulance services are an important part of social protection, especially in our country where there are large distances. It is absolutely vital for life and health. An irresponsible change of operator to Babcock has made it necessary for Stortinget to re-approve the matter in this Chamber once and for all. There has been a generally weakened preparedness, in some periods almost half of the planes have been out of service. This is serious, and that is why we have repeatedly had to put the government in charge and ask them to take responsibility for the situation. We have had a commercial company here that has not provided vital services at the level they are paid to deliver. It has weakened the safety of the population for life and health. It was necessary to introduce quite large additional measures to prevent the service from collapsing. We have not yet received information from the government about the costs incurred by the community for these necessary additional measures, but it was clearly right to do so. That bill must come on the table and it must come soon. This was – unfortunately – an alert crisis. I would like to remind you of what the Emergency Committee warned about as early as 2015, namely that ‘an operator exchange on the conclusion of new contracts breaks down a good interaction between the operator and healthcare provider over several years’. Their recommendation was to ensure that the planning and development of the air ambulance service is included as an integral part of the healthcare industry’s other ambulance and emergency services. These clear advices were then put in a drawer by Bent Höie, and he let the process of tender go its quirky time, just as planned. Not only that: it was also the player who cut the lowest on quality, who won the bid. Then it should not surprise anyone that it just failed in the field of preparedness. Our view is that health care is so important that it cannot be left to commercial, profit-based companies. The security of life and health of the population shall not be a performance project for a few but a common state responsibility. It's here the distinction between the commercial players and the public and the ideal, on the one hand, goes, the profit motive. We don't think the profit motive has anything to do with a service that's as vital to the lives and health of the population as the air ambulance service is proven. The process also shows how inappropriate health services are for the price competition of the tender, which means that those who deliver the cheapest at the time of the tender are those who receive the contract. It also shows how expensive it is to choose the cheapest in the first round, when we see that the operator is not able to deliver as intended, and the state, the community and the population have to take the extra bill that is due to the cheapest but not the best offer. We cannot compromise when it comes to people's security of life and health. Then we need to learn from the mistakes that have now been made, and learn from the fact that we are insourcing this service in the state health service, where most of the other ambulance services as of today are. So here we can listen to those who wear the shoes, and it's not us on the Stortinget or the Council of State, but it's for example. The Association of Doctors, the Association of Nurses, the Association of Pilots and the Trade Union. Those who have the professionals in their associations have clear advice to the government, and that is to go in for the public operation of the air ambulance service. I hope that Bent Höie and Right can, for once, put away the desktop theory of the excellence of tendering and take over the realities and experiences of the real world, put away the prestige and, for once, put what is right, first, to listen to the employees and start a necessary and gradual phase-in of the air ambulance in the public health system. It will be a victory for patients, for the people of the north, and for all those who want a safe service for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1613	The ambulance airliner and the disturbance around the emergency started a little over two years ago. There have certainly been some major challenges in maintaining the required level of preparedness. I have therefore engaged myself in this matter all the way. However, over the last few months the service has stabilised. The figures from the first quarter of 2020 showed that Babcock delivered 95,5 pst. preparedness in the country as a whole. In March, the numbers showed 96,5 p.m., and including Babcock's additional aircraft, the standby was up in 96,9 p.m. In other words, this was a service that, at the entrance of the coronary apathy, had a very high preparedness. Of course, the Korona situation caused some concern in this service, as it has done in all parts of society. However, the service has been shown to be stable even through the extraordinary weeks we have been through. So far in April, until Sunday 26 April, Babcock's ambulance aircraft have been ready for 98.6 p.m. The air ambulance service has, in my opinion, met this demanding situation in a good way, both by maintaining preparedness and by switching. They have found good solutions for the transport of infected patients both in the established service and through agreements on additional resources. Air ambulance services have, as you know, rented a Super Puma helicopter from Air Transport AS. This is stationed in Tromsø at 24-hour standby. The helicopter is dedicated to corona transports, with infectious envelopes and its own infected team from the University Hospital Nord-Norway. This covers the whole of North Norway if necessary. The air ambulance service has also concluded an agreement with Onderøe to prepare a Dash 8 short-haul flight for the transport of up to two vector cages and associated teams. The five rescue helicopters operated by the 330 squadron have also been prepared to be able to carry such detonators. We have also chosen to continue the defence assistance in East Finland until 15 July this year. However, I have asked the health regions to ensure that the air ambulance service has a civil helicopter in place in the Kirkenes by 15 July to replace the Defense helicopter. This is important in order to provide the defence with predictability in order to solve its primary tasks. At the same time, we are taking seriously local concerns about the overall ambulance capacity in eastern Finland related to the Korona outbreak. The mission of a civil helicopter in Kirkenes is not limited in time. It may be appropriate to re-examine the matter if new assessments suggest a different solution. With regard to the Committee's consideration of the two proposals for representatives and my presentation in the Stortinget on 15 January, I have to say that there are many good comments on the basis of the recommendations. As regards the future organisation of the air ambulance service, it is reasonable to await the conclusions of the established expert group. It is natural for the Committee to be concerned with the economic consequences of preparedness reduction, both in the past and in the present service provider. Similarly, the financial management of the lease-in of additional resources also applies. I know that the air ambulance service is working on setting up agreements, but this is the subject of negotiations and can, of course, end up in the legal system. This could therefore take some time. In the case of the lease-in of additional resources, inter alia: after my mission in the joint enterprise meeting with the health regions on 3 January, I have been aware that the exceptional situation in the air ambulance service should not go beyond the other service provision in the specialist health service, either in the North Health Service or in the other health regions. The government will return to the management of this part of the economy in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1630	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1635	On 6 March of this year, Nord-Trom’s court ruled that Babcock’s acquisition of the ambulance flight contract and 91 pilots from the previous operator was an activity transfer. The size has criticised the Minister of Health for not securing key personnel by demanding a transfer of business in the tender we are talking about. The contracting entity’s air ambulance service, HF, wrote at the time that they wanted to know about employees’ remuneration and employment, and considered the EEA Agreement to be an obstacle to requiring a transfer of business. It wasn't. It's got Nord-Trom's thingright fixed. A lot of uncertainty for patients, health professionals and pilots could have been avoided. What is the opinion of the State Council today of the HF Air Ambulance Service?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1640	I'm very pleased with this line, because it gives me the opportunity to clear up a manifest misunderstanding. Nord-Trom's district court has not ruled on the possibility of requiring a transfer of business in the course of the tendering process. What was the issue of Nord-Trom's District Court was about the agreement itself, i.e. the agreement that one had concluded with the pilots, had a content that meant that it had to be considered a business transfer. So this was a matter between Babcock and the employees' associations. That was what Nord-Troom's right of way was about, and not what the representative suggests to me in his question, namely whether the HF's assessment prior to the tender could be made, namely whether the State could claim a transfer of business. There are two completely different questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1645	Then I think I have to repeat my question. For my question, what the Minister of Health thinks about the HF Air ambulance Service’s assessments on innovation related to pay and working conditions. What Nord-Troom's right of way has correctly pointed out is that this, this contract, was a business transfer. That's what you've been trying to do, and it's right, as the Health Minister says, that there's a relationship between the pilots and the new operator. But the arguments of the HF Air ambulance service were that this was not possible in a contract notice, and that one wants to think creatively about pay and employee relationships. What are the health ministers thinking about it today? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1650	The answer to this is that the decision in Nord-Troms District Court does not alter the assessments made in advance of the tender, which were also made by several operators, who had a fully justified basis for doubting whether there was a basis for requiring an activity transfer in the tender itself. The fact that the pilots, after Babcock had won the contract, negotiated – with Babcock – agreements that resulted in the content of those contracts being transferred to an enterprise is exactly the way our labour market should be. The type of issues relating to pay and working conditions is precisely a relationship between the parties and not a contractual relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1655	The Health Minister said in his speech a little about how the coronary epidemic has been managed by the Air Ambulance Service. It's my impression, as the Council of State also describes it, that here the service has shown great creativity and developed solutions along the way. It is still the case that very much of the staff that the service is using are commuters. I would like the Minister of Health to give some consideration to whether he expects an increase in the mission and change in the operation of the service as one can get in the situation that the infection spreads more to the northern part of the country. For the time being, there is little infection especially in Finnmark and Nordland. Could the Minister of Health share some thoughts about it, and attach it to the availability of personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1660	That's a big question. Some of the answers to that question I gave in my post, about the increased preparedness that is established, both with the extra helicopter in Tromsø, the continuation of the defence helicopter and the agreement with Onkøe. And so is the fact that the state has purchased air services in Norway, both for the benefit of the general population, but especially for patients and health care employees in Northern Norway who need air services to travel between airports. So the state's purchase of air travel is also part of that preparedness. Companies themselves need to consider how to deliver good preparedness in a situation where they have commuters, so this is a composite image.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1667	When Babcock was to take over the air ambulance service contract, they had to take over 7 bases only 16 hours before the start of the contract. Then, in 16 hours, they were to rig equipment, set up technical services and ensure that 91 employees were trained to be able to fly Babcock's new aircraft. I believe it is relevant to clarify how that situation could arise, so that future contracts can be avoided. I therefore wonder how the Council of State believes this has been done. Is it simply a breach of the contract documents, or is it the former operator, Air Transport, that has broken the contractual intentions of a seamless and smooth transition to a new operator, Babcock?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1672	As the representative understands, the contract is clear on this relationship that an operator shall contribute to a smooth transition to a new operator. All participants in this market know that when a winner of a tender, one must also be able to be prepared for the loss of a tender. Then you should be involved and contribute to the good functioning of it. This is probably one of the points that I expect the expert committee to look at, that one, if they recommend a model with further tenders, ensures even better contractually that it is actually followed up by one who loses a contract. Because it is clear that this, as the representative was involved in his main post, distorts the transition, and a more flexible transition over a longer period of time could make this better and be better for preparedness, especially in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1679	During the consultation of the Health and Care Committee on this matter, the HF Air ambulance service was very clear that they perceived that the contract was clear that there would be a seamless and smooth transition between the new and old operator. With the answer now given by the Minister of Health, does this mean that there are still discussions about the contractual relationship between the HF Air ambulance service and air transport? Does the HF continue to insist that air transport was obliged to ensure the smooth transition that Babcock unfortunately did not get and that led to the start-up problems that we all know about?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1685	Yes, as I was in my post, the economic consequences of the emergency situation, in relation to both the previous and the current service provider, are still a question on which there are negotiations and discussions, and these are also issues that could end up in the legal system. This will include, inter alia: could contain the matters raised by the representative here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1690	When I hear the last line exchange, I have to say I have rarely heard a corresponding veil ever here in the pulpit. The fact is that it was a Swedish company that got the contract, and then it was an application to transfer that contract to a Norwegian company on 30 May 2019. It was transferred on 26 June 2019 and the operator exchange was due on 1 July 2019. The Norwegian company was in the case of a paper company at the time the contract was concluded. My simple question is: When did the Council of State become aware that it was a Swedish company that was awarded the contract, but that it was a Norwegian company that was to provide the service?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1695	I am not quite able to link the relevance of the representative's question to the previous reply exchange, but we have had these questions in previous rounds as well. It has been clear that the company was going to establish itself as a Norwegian company, but they were doing well with their preparations a long time before this. One of the benefits we have had in this situation is that this company is part of an international company with significant resources. It has attracted them in this situation, so that it has helped to improve preparedness in a difficult situation. It has been one of the advantages that this operator won the tender.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1700	The cord shift is with the change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1707	There was a very special rotation of this debate when he was largely concerned with the fact that it was the former company that has not adhered to the contract – when we discussed for almost two years that it was the contract with the new company that was a warning disaster. And in the setting it is not only the Progress Party that comes with this criticism; there is even the Christian People's Party and the Right on a note that they wrote that they have noticed that air transport has not followed up the contract's intentions to contribute to a smooth transition to the airline, and that the closing operator was obliged to cooperate with the new operator in order to achieve a seamless transition, and that the majority remember that air transport did not seem to have contributed to this. There are rather harsh words in a public setting about a company, and it's not least to turn the whole thing upside down. One of us is speaking from the Stortinget Chair here – and stamping it as one of us formerly drives almost as the very reason that one of us has had a crisis situation in the health care system in the country. Loss of service competence in supply was a warning to the emergency selection. No claims were made for the transfer of assets, and then one with them added their pay and pension conditions. It's a natural consequence that pilots and technicians consider trying to get away from the service when this was not done. This did one knowingly because one was going to compete with them in addition to their pay, employment and pension conditions. I think it is both unimportant, incalculable and unacceptable from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party to put such things in the configuration and to place responsibility for this failure in the procurement process on an old operator and owe them not to cooperate – when we know that the bidding process has been strongly criticised from end to end, and that one from the plurality of the page allowed for the operator's exchange to take place with them to add their pay and employment conditions as the only decisive element of competition. It's Babcock who didn't deliver on the contract. They received approval to operate in Norway two days before the operator change occurred and it is completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1721	What we're experiencing here now is a storywriting I, as I said, have never experienced before. I expect the people of North Norway to notice what the Council of State said. He said that Babcock has met a demanding service in a good way. It says everything about what has been the Council of State understanding the situation all along. This has been a scandalous tendering process. I noticed that the case rapporteur had a humble approach to the matter. I'm grateful for that. This has given a terrible preparedness; it is a tragic matter. This is theoretical right-wing policy at its worst. Here, a mission was given to HF's head, Øyvind Juell, to really get new ideas. A business transfer was not to be realised, a business transfer that had ensured that the complex organisation that had provided a good service was to be continued. No, one should have a new organization. The interesting thing is that the new organisation that got the contract was a Swedish company, and the Swedish company has never performed a single service in Norway, because it was a new company, as the representative Toppe said, which was introduced on 1 July 2019 – a Norwegian company that applied for the transfer of the contract on 30 May 2019. It was not strange that this went wrong. It is said here that air transport is involved and that there was a failure in the contract documents. No, there was no failure in the contract documents. That's how the contract documents were, that it was a company that got it, and it was a Swedish company. The council has not answered my question when he realized that it was the Swedish company that got the contract, and that it was then a Norwegian company that was established a few days before this was to be commissioned, which was to perform the service. I challenge the Council of State once again to answer that question: When did the Council of State become aware that the contract conditions were such in advance, and that the authorities approved a change in that way? The council says that the company should establish itself as a Norwegian company. It was a Swedish company that was closed and established as a Norwegian company. Finally, in the contract, Babcock had undertaken to establish a good order, with four pilots in reverse 24 hours a day. The Council of State has explained in various ways that it was in progress, and the HR Air ambulance Service, at the hearing of the Committee, says that it was not established at all. There are so many things to address here, and it shows that the evaluation committee is getting a good job, but here it has to do a thorough job, based on the fact in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1740	I can say that I agree with Lundtägen that there are so many elements to address here. I want to go back to my introduction, where I said that in this case there have been many different actors who have had a political interest in Babcock not succeeding, and have done what they can, almost anything, just to prevent it. It's a shame, because it should be in everyone's interest to make sure that the security and preparedness of our citizens are as good as possible. It has been difficult in this debate to understand what the objectives of the Central Party in its submissions are. Some articles are about criticising the fact that Babcock has been registered as a Swedish company – as if it were relevant in any way. It is unclear whether the Senterpartiet would really want air transport to have been able to continue to provide the ambulance service – then in private, of course. Many of the central party representatives have held this debate, have been hot and hot to air transport. Of course, they still cannot accept that air transport has also made mistakes and has not made a smooth transition to a new operator. Or is the Central Party's goal that the state should run this too? I'm going to stick to the suggestions the Center Party has made, even if the arguments break in every direction. The centre party seems to be convinced – through what they say in writing, correctly – that if this company had only been owned by the public, everything would have been good. Let me just give you some examples that the state or the government is not a guarantee that things are going well. We have seen it in Trondheim – 26 000 offences in the care of the elderly under public law. If the centre party got involved in that matter, they might have been asked to privatize everything. It would have been a pleasure. In addition, there have been thousands of crimes in Oslo, also under public control, not to mention the Nav scandal in 2019. There are errors no matter who does a service. What can be pointed out in this case is that Babcock has faced major aviation technology challenges and challenges with sickly registered employees. How does the Central Party think that the state could have avoided it? What evidence does the Central Party have to claim that if the State had owned this company, everything would get better? Finally, there would have been an advantage for future debates about the centre party could stick to one argument instead of cracking in all directions. It is quite difficult to follow what the Central Party wants in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1755	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1760	We do not have many different purposes in this debate. We have one purpose, and that's that we want safe air ambulance services in Norway, and we want to make sure that these aren't being put under pressure by a policy that has supply and competition as its goal and not as a means. For this reason, we suggest that a now must have a state takeover of the air ambulance service, and that any cooperation with non-profits be established through long-term contracts. There is competition and supply in itself that is not consistent with basic health preparedness in the country. It's about this. We've done the right thing in the setting, and we're very disagreeable with the Progress Party in this case. I am also disappointed in the Right and the Progress Party, which is no longer clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1765	The reason why this has not worked out well is that the company that was to perform the service did not have an organisation that dealt with the challenges they had. So simple is the matter. And that company was not the company that got the contract in the first place. That company had too few pilots and had one too vulnerable organization, as reality showed. There has been no party political desire to succeed or fail here. The lots have related to the contracts concluded between the public, at the HF Air ambulance, and Babcock. The fact that a Swedish company got the contract is highly relevant, because it was the Swedish company that competed with air transport. It was obviously not the idea that the Swedish company should be operating, and it is an important information that one must bring with it. Air transport did not have – as far as I am aware – a particular desire to continue this operation. It was not particularly lucrative for their business, but they saw that if one were to continue that business from one operator to the next, there was a great advantage to the business transfer. However, if one had carried out a business transfer, the costs of the new company had been increased, because then they had to take over the pay and work conditions of the former company, which the former company had been forced to publish to the new company. When the Center Party here goes in order for this to be a public operation, it's precisely from the experience we're now in. Air ambulance services are very complicated, and a thing not to build an organization without thinking in the long term. When it is so complex and so much need for long-term management, it is a great advantage that such a preparedness organisation is publicly run. Today, the HF Air ambulance has a difficult administration to ensure the tendering process. I would suggest that most of the people could benefit from being the drivers of an organization. It could have been made cheaper with a public organization of it all. The interesting thing about this is that, for example, is in the contract that it is to be established backwards. It's in the contract. The opposition is proposing today that a party stand by the obligation to look after the contract, and it is quite interesting to note that the government parties with the support of the Progress Party are voting against the implementation of the back-watching requirements under the contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1776	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1790	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1799	Case No. 1–4 is the second processing of laws and applies to legislative acts 82 to 85. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. Case No. 5 was a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1815	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for different models of non-commercial housing, both in the ownership and rental sectors, and to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for the necessary legislative changes and appropriations to establish such schemes.’ An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Socialist Left. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1832	The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1846	My voice was not registered!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1851	The result is that 78 representatives voted in favour of the vote and 9 representatives voted in favour of the Socialist Left. - That's how the suspension is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1863	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Toril Eidsheim on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Masud Gharakhani on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Masud Gharahkhani on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 5 and 6, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 7-9, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 10 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The financial envelope agrees to reduce allowances for depositors, members of the government and prime minister by 20 per cent with effect from 1 May 2020 to 31 December 2020.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1904	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1909	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1914	The result is that 87 representatives voted against the proposal and one representative voted in favour of the proposal. That does not mean that the proposal has been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7–9, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose that the ceiling on total remuneration for national employees, including any supplements and pensions, should not be higher than the arrangements applicable to the Prime Minister at all times.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘Reimbursement of prime ministers, state councils and depositors’ representatives shall not be increased until a new system of government directors’ remuneration ceilings is in place.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government does not ask for an increase in the salary or remuneration of government secretaries and political advisors in the government apparatus until a new system of government directors’ salaries is in place.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1945	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce a wage ceiling for leaders in the state of 15 G and to freeze wages and salaries for current managers with wages and salaries above this level.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asking the government to set up a management wage commission for government directors’ salaries, senior management’s salaries in state-owned companies and companies in which the government is a majority shareholder, as well as the salaries of politicians at national and local level. The Commission shall look at the government directors’ salaries, bonus schemes and remuneration in the context and analyse why wage developments at the top level have been made subject to a foothold, despite, inter alia, previously adopted guidelines. Furthermore, the Commission shall make a thorough assessment of the real social considerations in the determination of wages and salaries and what cannot be justified by this. The Commission shall have strong representation from the parties. The salary of political and administrative leaders in the State with a salary of 9,8 G or more is nominated in accordance with the conclusions of the Executive Commission in the autumn of 2020.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1970	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to set up a management wage commission for government directors’ salaries, senior management’s salaries in state-owned companies and companies in which the government is a majority shareholder, as well as the salaries of politicians at national and local level. The Commission shall look at the government directors’ salaries, bonus schemes and remunerations in the context and analyse why wage developments at the top level have continued, despite, inter alia, previously adopted guidelines. Furthermore, the Commission shall make a thorough assessment of the real social considerations in the determination of wages and salaries and what cannot be justified by this. The Commission shall have strong representation from the parties. The salary of Prime Minister, Government Councils and Depositary Representatives shall be suspended in a nominal manner until the conclusions of the Executive Commission have been presented.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e1989	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a practice whereby, as a general rule, managers of the State and of entire state companies who resign from their positions, whether voluntary or involuntary, do not retain their senior salary if they are relocated to lower positions.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2006	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to ensure that the responsible State Council reports annually to the Storting on the development of wage management within its area of competence. Government councils responsible for state-owned jointly-owned companies shall report to the Stortinget on how they have promoted the government's principles of leadership wage moderation. What has been done to ensure an equal pay profile shall also be reported.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2023	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Biggest calls on the Presidency of the United Kingdom to set up a selection to assess common principles for the remuneration of policy-makers at all levels of government. The sample shall also evaluate the scheme of the Grand Duchy’s Wage Commission. The sample is given a broad composition where KS is also represented. Until the case is brought before the Stortinget, the compensation is frozen for large-scale representatives and members of the Government at the present level.’;» The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2037	I would suggest that the representatives of the Left vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2042	It is then clear that the Left too will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2069	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2088	The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2093	That's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2112	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party The president pointed out that the Labour Party was not part of the proposal No. 1, as stated in the position, and that this was corrected by the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg during the debate. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out national samples as sample samples.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2143	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the presentation of the results of the national tests provides more precise and correct information than is the case today’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2167	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the overall reporting and documentation requirements in schools are reduced.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2191	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Ingvild Kjerkol from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 6 and 7, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, In proposal No 6 is replaced by the word ‘air ambulance service’. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked immediately to prepare and come back to Stortinget with a proposal to ensure the state operation of the air ambulance service and to allow the State to acquire companies with associated and relevant approval, privileges and competence for the operation of ambulance aircraft in Norway and to commence the initial phase-in of the service. Priority is given to services in North Norway during the phase-in phase.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the immediate start of a guided winding-up of the contract with Babcock to secure an agreement whereby Babcock contributes the necessary aircraft and personnel until the State operates the air ambulance in its entirety and where Babcock takes its share of the cost of the breach of the contract to the State.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2229	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to prepare for the public operation of the air ambulance services as soon as possible, so that it becomes an integral part of the other ambulance services and emergency medical emergency services, and to return to Stortinget on its own initiative.’ The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2263	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to include in the proposal for revised national budget 2020 the costs of the additional measures taken by health care establishments in the ambulance aircraft case.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the mandate of the expert group is extended to investigate how a public takeover of the air ambulance service can be carried out.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an appropriate overview of the economic, preparedness and health consequences and deviations resulting from the tendering process of the Air ambulance Air Traffic Service and the 2019 operator exchange.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the immediate establishment of a reverse watch regime for pilots eligible to be picked up in the event of sickness and absence of an air ambulance flight service.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-28.ana.ud141e2424	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
