ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e78	The President will propose, on behalf of the Presidency, that the gallery be closed at today's meeting of infectious diseases. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Right-wing Group to the representative of Aase Simonsen from 11 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Leif Erik Egaas, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e106	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e111	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Kjerkol, Tore Hagebakken, Tuva Moflag, Hege Haukeland Liadal and myself, I have the pleasure of submitting a proposal for a representative that addicts deserve better treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e116	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e121	It is then good to be able to present a proposal by the representatives of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Solfrid Lerbreck and myself on measures to prevent or restrict the establishment in Norway of new air carriers which do not comply with Norwegian labour law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e126	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e131	Red promotes a proposal for a new crisis package for workers. We would like to see the proposal dealt with urgently according to section 39(d) of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e139	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e144	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Nicholas Wilkinson, Karin Andersen and myself on more involvement in child protection, written by the child-restraint children themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e149	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e169	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e185	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e201	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e217	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e224	The representative proposal we are going to debate today is promoted by the representatives of Great Britain, Hofstad Helleland, Ørmen Johnsen, Pettersen, Wold, Heimdal, Almeland and Gleditsch Lossius. The case deals with the criminal prosecution of those who earn money in sports as a result of doping, and demands for changes in international sport. The Committee shares the view of the proposers that Norway should show its way in strengthening the integrity and anti-doping of sport. Sport at national and international level must be based on values such as fair play, human rights, equality and democracy. Proposals mainly promote three proposals aimed at strengthening Norwegian efforts to combat doping in sport and to facilitate the prosecution of those who choose to enrich themselves in this respect. They want an assessment of how information on sports and support equipment being penalised for doping crime can also be made available to anti-doping organisations. They want the government to assess new provisions of the penal code in order to be able to punish those who earn money on sports performance as a result of doping and the possibility of withdrawal. Finally, they wish to examine the criteria to be met for State support for international sporting events to be organised in Norway. The majority of the Committee considers that the financial gain generated by organised doping is not sufficiently affected by today’s fraud regulation. In criminal law, police and prosecution authorities today have to prove that there is error and loss/risk of loss as well as unjustified profit. The conditions of error and loss are both irrelevant to criminality in organised doping and financial gain in sport. For this reason, the majority of the Committee considers that a whole new provision of the penal code is necessary which directly affects financial gain in the context of participation in organised sport where it has been done doping. The majority of the Committee emphasises that it must be sufficient for such persons to be penalised to find that, in the context of participation in organised sport, a financial advantage has been obtained despite the performance-enhancing breach of the rules on doping. The acts of backers, contributors and organisers could be at least as punishable as those of the perpetrator. It should also be punishable even if the offender cannot be punished under that provision. Therefore, criminality should mean that, as a contribution to doping itself, to keeping doping hidden or to negotiating economic benefits, key acts of participation can be charged as self-criminals when someone has achieved financial gain in connection with the participation of a baptized person in organised sport. Unfortunately, the Labour Party believes that the proposal does not go far enough in proposing measures that should actually be able to make a change that really addresses the root of this problem. The Labour Party has listened to the wishes of sport itself. They want a transparent system that is as up-to-date as possible at all times. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants to implement the WADA ban list in the Norwegian legislation. We believe that this will lead to the most predictable and durable regulator possible. In this way, we will not have to revise the legislation every time new areas of doping emerge. This will also enable us from day one to persecute blood-doping yokers, as we have seen Austria managed last winter. The present proposal will not automatically be able to embrace this major problem. It may need to be investigated and designed specifically in retrospect. This also applies to all other forms of doping. It must therefore be proactive at all times and follow all new types of doping methods. This is a major weakness in the proposal as it lies and is settled. With the Workers' Party's proposal, we will be able to rely on the organisation that is the most advanced in this area in the world, and we will have a law that is equipped to deal with such innovations in cheating and fantasy as soon as they are known and implemented at WADA. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good and lengthy work on this matter and to address the proposals made by the Labour Party together with the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e245	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e250	When Max Hauke was taken by the Austrian police last year, I think we all got a wake. We know, of course, what a huge problem doping is, but looking at it on video as inconspicuous and shameless as it was, made me realize at least a couple of things related to doping. One is how extensive and systematic it has been implemented. The second is how devastating it is for anyone who wants a clean organized sport. The third is that the Norwegian legislation has some weaknesses. I don't think Norwegian police could do the same thing as Austrian police. It's a big problem. Doping destroys absolutely all pleasure in sports – it is quite obvious. It's fundamentally unfair – it's also obvious. But one side of the problem that is not highlighted enough is the economic consequences it has for absolutely everyone involved – sponsors, organizers, rightholders and not least all those who try, every single, benevolent day, to win and earn their money in a legitimate and fair way. They are the victims in contact with the organized doping. The representative proposal from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left responds to a call from the sports to take doping on the very highest seriousness. It's time this room called doping for what it is: financial crime. We know that there is a lot of work left on this legislation, and we need to look at the design. There may be disagreements about whether we should mention individual organisations or whether we should give the Ministry of Justice and Defence broad powers to design the most effective law. But what I would like to thank you for is that the majority in this Chamber – led by the rapporteur as well – has managed to ensure that this decision is today unanimous and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e263	Will the representative Peter Frölich address the proposals that have been put forward by the Right with the Progress Party and the Left in the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e268	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e273	The representative Peter Frölich has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e278	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for promoting a case which is all the reason to address in Stortinget, and thank the case-rapporteur for a good presentation. Then I would like to add that we have recently had conversations with the Sports Association, which has addressed the questions that there is disagreement in the setting. In particular, the possibility for the police to investigate the use of doping in sport, such that when doping is used in sport, not only does the sport launch sanctions, it starts investigating it, but the police are also involved in that process and have jurisdiction in the penal code to do so. This is what is contained in the minority proposal from the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, where it is set up to ask the government to consider how to resolve it so that both the police and the sports organisations can move in from their respective positions and manage the use of doping in competitions in sport. The second point where there is disagreement is whether to base the WADA ban list. As the anti-doping convention Norway has joined, WADA is linked, and it is those who have the international competence and are the common international body to which we relate, what the Sports Association says seems convincing to us: that we should base WADA’s ban list on work in Norway — including legal work. When you have the list to deal with, you do not – as the rapporteur was about to do – consider new forms of doping from time to time. Blood doping is mentioned as a current example. It says in the setting that we promote the setting together with the Working Party and SV. It also means that we support the three proposals which the Labour Party and the SV are behind, i.e. the proposals No. 4, 5 and 6 in the setting. I was informed that it was a technical error from our side that made it not included in the setting. But these are our conclusions after the contact we have had with the Sports Association, which clearly recommends that we support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e287	International top sport is a billion-dollar industry, and sportsmen and their achievements are big business. Not only the performers themselves, but also supporters, clubs, associations and sponsors make money on the performance of sportsmen. Trustworthiness and trust are essential for sport to be a movement of people. Therefore, it is also important to identify the flows of money to the actors around the practitioners and to focus on transparency, democracy and governance. Not all international specialisations and sports organisations have governance and democratic structures as we are accustomed to from democratic organisations. International sport has repeatedly been criticised for the way they organise their work. The lack of independence, transparency and organisation, which does not provide practitioners with the legal certainty they should have, is critical. The Ministry of Culture, the Norwegian Sports Association and Antidoping Norway have expressed in a joint declaration of 2018 that they will contribute to the development of independent national anti-doping organisations that ensure that intelligence, investigation, control and prosecution at national or international level are made independent of the sports organisations and the authorities. They further stress that: ‘any person suspected of breach of the anti-doping law shall be assured of a thorough and objective investigation and a judicial procedure for independent judicial bodies following the principles of fair trial, with transparent and sound treatment at all stages of the process’. We have to recognise that economic gain is a key driver for the use of doping, both outside the organised sport and in top-notch sport. The use of doping already has a significant impact on the practitioner when it is discovered. This proposal tries to do something about the structures around the performer, which are not being hit today. It is about being able to prosecute, for example. support apparatus and others who test practitioners who are doping and who are making money on it but who are currently largely avoiding any consequences for them. Responsibilities and consequences are largely about the individual performer today and should not be so. This proposal, adopted today, will reduce the pressure on practitioners and will change the structural, not individual, challenges. We believe that those who earn money for using doping should be punishable, and that the money should be withheld. The economic gain of organised doping is not affected enough by today’s fraud clause in the penal code. Therefore, a new provision of the penal code must also be considered. If we are to succeed in this, we must ensure that information on sportsmen and support apparatus punished for doping crime can also be made available to anti-doping organisations. Doping shall not pay for anyone, whether for practitioners or for others who has earned money in sports.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e307	Of course, I fully agree with the call for a doping-free sport. The use of doping agents is not only harmful to the individual sportsman who uses doping but also has social consequences. There is also reason to stress that anti-doping organisations are doing a very important job. The use of doping is comprehensively regulated by criminal and pharmaceutical laws. The involvement in criminal offences is also a criminal offence in the first place. Therefore, a trainer or supporter of a sportsman providing advice and assistance on the use of doping drugs could also be penalised. Furthermore, it follows from the general rules on withdrawal in the criminal law that, where there is a causal link between the dividends received and a criminal offence, the dividend shall be withheld. These rules on doping were introduced quite recently. It will be both complicated and resource-intensive to determine whether there is a need for further criminalisation that results in economic gains due to doping. The same applies to the design of such a criminal order, including the specific actions to be taken. Therefore, we do not recommend this now, but will also follow developments and see how the rules for this work and, if necessary, make changes in the long term. As regards the issue of providing information in criminal cases as a result of doping, we have rules that information from closed criminal cases can be made available to the anti-doping organisations. I believe that those rules are initially sufficient. Going further in providing the police with a notification obligation raises both legal and practical issues. A notification obligation to a private body will, regardless of its extent, involve a change in principle. In particular, for ongoing cases, heavy consideration is given to a notification obligation, including: the purpose of avoiding harm to the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e323	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e328	It does not now appear that the Workers' Party's proposal to implement the WADA ban list goes through the Norwegian legislation. How, then, will the Council of State ensure that the Norwegian legislation is always as up-to-date and predictable as we wish?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e333	I really think that the rules that are designed in a way that gives flexibility also provide a good starting point for making changes substantive. I think these rules give us that. So you don't have to list up, you need to have concepts related to use, turnover, advice, profit, etc., and then it's adequate for the situation that had to occur at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e338	In what way or when does the Council of State see that, for example, this example of blood doping will be updated in the Norwegian legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e343	It is for the prosecution authorities to investigate and assess whether an act is covered by the rules of criminal law. But it is clear that the use, possession and benefit of this kind of action today is punishable. It's a rather new piece of legislation, so we're probably lacking experience with it, but here the police and prosecution authorities have to give their hard priority to what issues they're investigating, how they're doing it, and what charges they're going to promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e350	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e357	There's reason to be a little happy today. In fact, the fact that an aggregate increase is behind proposals that help Norway to show its way in strengthening the integrity of sport and anti-doping work makes me a little proud. Sport based on fair play, human rights, equality and democracy is at its best, and the representative proposal that underlies the issue we are debating today, we promoted in the wake of the precisely doping scandal of the Ski World Cup in Austria in 2019, which has been discussed by many. With the proposals adopted today, Norway will go ahead and put pressure on other authorities, which are largely only leaning back and feel that this is something sport needs to deal with itself. Doping is, as has been said, organized crime. It is the power structures and organised crime that stand behind us, we have to live, and the police have to get tools to pursue the case all the way – from the one who sits and takes the shot or is doping, to all those who are behind it. Of course, we find sportsmen who baptize themselves on their own free will, but we also need to understand that many sportsmen are being pressured into baptism. It can be of parents, trainers or environments around. It's not like this is just something the practitioners are doing themselves, there's a lot of money and prestige in getting a pallet position, and if you get desperate enough, there's a lot of people who unfortunately choose to go to the step of doping. By putting in place strict criteria that need to be met in order to receive state support for international championships in Norway, we will not only send a signal but actively demonstrate that Norway is contributing to a change in international sport. Of course, requirements for independent anti-doping work must be central, but an investigation of criteria must also look at elements such as good governance, democratic values, the legal certainty of practitioners and equality, in order to mention something. There are shades of inequality in the proposals from the government parties and the Progress Party on the one hand and the Workers' Party and SV on the other. However, I want the government to have the greatest possible leeway in the assessments they are about to make to follow up what the Storting decides today. There may well be moments in which both the proposers and the Committee have translated into their work. The biggest threat to international sport is that we do nothing – that we do not take a settlement with doping. Today, audiences and supporters are all too often held for fools, and it helps the Storting to put an end to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e374	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e391	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e398	I would first like to thank the Committee for its cooperation in the examination of the proposal for a representative from Mr Vedum, Mr Arnstad, Mr Navarsete, Mr Klinge and Mr Nordlund to set up a total emergency committee. The representatives have two proposals to ask the government to set up a public selection to review the national and local preparedness in Norway, and to show how one can make the best use of the overall community resources to prepare for different crisis situations. The selection shall propose ways of strengthening national and local preparedness across different sectors. In addition, they ask the government to ensure that the composition of the selection is anchored in Size. Norway shall at all times be prohibited from dealing with crises, serious events and threats. In the last seven years, defence, social security and preparedness have been at the height of the government party. Different legislation has been targeted, and considerable resources have been provided to strengthen key operational response capacities. The wire mesh is built out and covers close to 100 pst. of the population. Sixteen new rescue helicopters have been ordered. The first one is in use, and the rest will be in place in 2022. In 2019, a national cybersecurity centre was opened, with over 40 public and private enterprises working together to uncover and manage data attacks. In 2018, new security laws were also signed. Since 2013, the police have been strengthened with over 3,100 new annual works. Three new police helicopters are in place, and the new National Police Emergency Response Centre is now operational. The interaction between the naudetates has been strengthened by several exercises and the co-location of police and fire emergency response centres in several places. Civil-military cooperation and total defence have been systematically developed over the years for, among others. to meet our commitments as NATO ally. Civil defence has been invested in new equipment, and a new population alert system is under development. Our community and the world around us are in constant change. This also affects the threat picture we are in at all times. We have many levels of preparedness, with many professional and volunteer actors involved, to deal with a large range of events that can or will most likely occur. This preparedness is continuously developed and improved when we identify gaps and vulnerabilities, but in this we should also bear in mind that many of the causes behind the threats are cross-border and global. Terrorism, climate change, pandemics and technological vulnerabilities require close and loyal intergovernmental cooperation in order to detect, prevent and resolve them. We are examining a similar proposal from the same representatives in 2018. At the time, we made a decision in Stortinget to take up the question of setting up a total preparedness commission when the evaluation after the Great NATO Exercise was held in 2018, and after the overall defence programme had ended. A follow-up to the post-NATO evaluation exercise is now being carried out, and the overall defence programme will continue this year. We are now in the midst of the greatest crisis that has happened to us and the world around us in modern times. All aspects of society are affected. It is a demanding time for people of all ages, for work and for central social actors. It's now full focus on managing the covid-19 pandemic and his followers. An own Commission has been set up to monitor and assess all aspects of the management of this crisis, an evaluation planned to be presented in the spring of 2021. We believe that the knowledge that the evaluations provide us with related exercises, events and changes of promise must be part of the basis for a possible overall review of preparedness. We are open to reconsider the issue on a later occasion, but at that time we should give priority to the resources to resolve the major crisis we are facing, and await the important assessments that are under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e417	Ensuring life and health is the country's most important task. There has been no lack of key preparedness plans and strategies since the Vulnerability Committee in 2000 and especially since the Gjørv Commission after what happened in 2011. What is still missing is proper, comprehensive coordination that makes all actors ready when and if major crises occur again. It has, for example, not lacking warnings or plans for a pandemic, but was Norway sufficiently clear when the pandemic actually hit us? Today, we are more prepared at national level to face crises, in particular terrorism, but there are still gaps, especially local ones, both in terms of coordination and in terms of alertness to other threats and crises. No one believes that we can be completely safe in a free society, but we can reduce vulnerability and pursue a policy of total preparedness that sees risks and vulnerabilities and response resources in the context. We still have weaknesses in preparedness that should be addressed better than today. Government parties say that they will wait for a better knowledge base before concluding, where appropriate, on a total preparedness commission. It's too defensive. We know that we have some weaknesses that have not been adequately addressed. Firstly, close preparedness is not high enough priority. The resources set aside for preparedness in the municipalities do not match the obligations of the municipalities. After the police reform, the police are less present locally. There is more pressure on the municipal fire department in sharp situations. Civil defence, which is an important part of close preparedness, has been under-prioritized over many years, including: practice in today’s situation less than that defined as critical needs. Secondly, poor cooperation between public services weakens our preparedness. Poor ability to interact was a central part of the criticism of the 22nd July Commission, and the co-operation problems have not yet been resolved. You like to plan how to deal with crises, but they're not well coordinated enough, and it's not practiced together, both centrally and locally. When a crisis strikes, having a plan in the drawer does not help. Then you have to go shopping. Thirdly, target and performance management creates new challenges for preparedness. The wholeness of preparedness is undermined by the fact that governance consists of many detailed objectives that are often not priorities. Fourth, fragmentation and fragmentation create new challenges for preparedness. Outsourced tasks create more complex governance chains and increased vulnerability in a crisis situation, for example: related to commercial support from private actors to the military in a war situation. There is little research into how these disadvantages of privatisation are perceived and whether they compensate for the benefits. The conclusion is that today we have vulnerability due to the way work is organised and that the actors involved need to be better involved in the design of a national strategy. The sum of the challenges we face means, for the Labour Party, that there is a clear need for a total preparedness Commission to create a national strategy addressing the challenges we see, precisely because such a Commission will be built on a common sense of reality, which is absolutely crucial in a crisis situation. The role of the different actors is involved in a comprehensive preparedness committee. They can then get to know each other's challenge and not least put in place a national strategy that allows us to meet the challenges we see. There is no crisis that is equal to. The challenge for a society like Norway is that we are very well prepared for the previous crisis, but it is the next crises we have to be well prepared for. With the challenges we face in local preparedness, vulnerability, lack of coordination between public actors and the new threats we face, we believe that a comprehensive response commission should already be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e436	Preparedness is at the heart of a country’s activity. It is absolutely essential that the state can provide citizens with a preparedness that enables us to deal with crises and situations against war and war. Preparedness in itself is a matter that I perceive the government with varying parties at all times have been committed to, put in the high seat, and have been dedicated to providing new solutions to and financing, and doing important steps that the previous government was not at all near. This is whether we are talking about the fight against terrorism, about race, about floods, about cyberattacks or about pandemics – a composite picture of potential crises. We're in the middle of one, which can hit us as a nation. Then we have to have a readiness to arm the country, which means that we have clear tools to deploy and manage a situation for the benefit of most people. But then there's something about timing. I very much agree that we need such a commission. I totally agree with the Center Party on that. I should like to suggest it, when it's natural to do so, because it's clear that we need a commission that sees the whole picture, that you not only deliver on each sector, but that you see the big picture. I'm all for it. But it's a strange timing to suggest it when we're in the middle of today's maybe the greatest crisis, a pandemic, which has otherwise been a notified crisis for a long time. It would be natural to draw conclusions from it and see how we as a society were able to handle covid-19. Only then are the assumptions present to be able to put down such a commission. This is very premature, and I wish you had perhaps waited a little while to deal with this matter, until we had another picture around covid-19. So it's a little special to hear the Workers' Party standing here on this pulpit and criticising the right hand side as to emergency work. That's something that's been given high priority by our Justice Ministers when the Progress Party put in government. I feel that both the Workers' Party and the Centre have been directly counter-powered in order to put in place perhaps the most important of the preparedness efforts made by this government with the Progress Party in government, and this is about the National Emergency Centre of the Police. It was a fight to get it done. I was the Council of State myself then, and the reluctances and short-term thinking that were the basis of a campaign to stop a project that in retrospect turns out to be absolutely amazing, it is shameful to look back on. If the Centre Party had got what they wanted, the Workers' Party had got what they wanted, we would have stood without a national emergency centre and with a completely different condition to be able to deal with terror on Norwegian soil – for that matter, SV was also involved. It's okay to think a little bit about what you've contributed to, and how you operate yourself in the debate. If you want a long-term emergency building, you really should think about how you work yourself. But overall, it is important to see Norwegian preparedness in the context, it is important that we put down such a commission. Let's do that, but let's wait until we get out of the pandemic, let's wait until we've drawn the conclusions of the other challenges we've faced, and then based on it be able to think completely and make complete suggestions on how we, as a nation, can deal with crises even better in the time that comes. So I'd like to be with the Center Party to propose it in Stortinget when we get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e447	It was a strange show we saw recently, where the representative Amundsen said he would be happy to be on the proposal of the Central Party if the timing had been better. We made a similar proposal in 2017, three years ago, as there was no pandemic that could be the reason for not supporting it. So I think that Amundsen can take a little round with himself and think that he is much more reluctant to the proposal than he might admit here. We're in the middle of a pandemic, a pandemic that has shown that as a society we weren't good enough forbidden. It's a pandemic for which society doesn't have a height, despite professional recordings over several years that have pointed out that a pandemic could be a realistic scenario. The last major commission that looked at vulnerability in society as a whole was the Vulnerability Committee, the rent of Kåre Willoch in 2000. It is now more than 20 years since that report was completed. Since then there have been enormous changes, both nationally and internationally. That's why, in the Central Party, we are disappointed that the government party and the Progress Party do not see the value of putting down a total preparedness commission, as we suggest in this case. Unfortunately, over the course of these years, we have experienced several serious events that have challenged national preparedness, among other things. 22 July 2011, forest fire summer in 2018 and no pandemic in 2020. In addition, a number of events still have good results using a solid portion of luck, such as: the event with the large cruise ship that lost engine power in Hustadvika in 2019. This shows a width in which our society can come out of it, but also what preparedness actors must be able to handle when special events occur. It's been a lot of work, but it's been a lot of work. in the field of justice in the last seven years. The size has, among other things, purchased from new and larger rescue helicopters. The police have an emergency centre in Austland, and the country has an emergency network, etc. What we do not know is how well these actions are linked, whether resources are used in a good way overall, or whether adjustments or changes are needed. When we think about preparedness, many people like to think about the police, the defense, the ambulances and the firemen. These are clearly very important, but at the same time they are the municipalities that are often the central player for people to be safe both in small and large events. It is the municipality that has to secure electricity, water and various necessary services for all of us, in different ages and in different stages of life. Local authorities must therefore have the capacity, knowledge and not least funding to carry out all the tasks that the State adds to them. The police are the central actor when something goes wrong. In recent years, the government has implemented a so-called near-police reform that has removed the police from municipalities throughout the country. We don't know what the impact of this on total preparedness is, but we know that local knowledge, proximity and rapid action can be decisive to succeed in curtailing damage. Of course, a comprehensive preparedness Commission must also assess how the near-police reform and other centralising reforms have affected the overall preparedness capacity of our society. The pandemic has shown us that the country does not have medicine, medical equipment or capacity in hospitals to deal with a situation like the one we saw in e.g. Italy in March. I am aware that a Korona Commission is currently working to assess how the pandemic was handled, and how the state was banned and not. That's good. Without drawing any initial conclusions, there is evidence that neither the preparation nor the planning have been good enough. Pandemic is an example of a crisis that can hit us. Climate change is a major theme for the moment. Our need for power, water and food and the increased digitisation of both services and communication between people make us vulnerable. Norway is not isolated from the world, and digital attacks from states and other actors are taking place on new platforms. For example, the Storting itself was the victim of a major break-in of computer systems in the past in the fall. A message of social security was submitted a few weeks ago. This message can be accessed from among others: until the government wants to move away from shelter. This is a violation of the preparedness that the country has had for the people since the war. The centre party does not yet have a position on the government's bill of deposit, but we believe that there must be a thorough assessment of the need for shelter where the starting point must be that people throughout the country should be safe. The conclusion of the Centre Party is clear: there is a need for a total preparedness Commission. It's better to do a thorough job that looks at well-being than ever to have to put down new selections when things go wrong, especially when part of these things can be avoided if we get better at thinking whole-heartedly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e472	We are living in a very exciting time, and this year has shown a huge need for society to have crisis plans. There has been a crisis now that is perhaps the most serious since World War II. We've seen enormous consequences of it both for business and for most people. We've had to resort to supplementary laws, we've had to make crisis packages, but we've also been exposed to significant failure in our society through this pandemic. Now the debate is about whether Norway had a good enough readiness to meet the Corona outbreak: did we have enough infectious and intensive facilities, and did we have sufficient legislation? All of this is part of a standby fence. I think, quite unlike the Progress Party, that this is a very good time to promote a proposal for a total preparedness commission precisely because it is very relevant, people are concerned about it right now, and there are many of the institutions of society that are just thinking about these conditions. SV of course supports the whole heart of the Workers' Party and the Center Party in this and supports these plans. I will not draw the arguments of the representatives of Klinge and Henriksen, because I think they argue very well. I just want to come up with an additional reflection on preparedness, because this pandemic has also revealed something quite different. It is that the risk of being hit by war, terror or pandemic is actually quite small – there is quite little risk. Far higher is the risk of being subjected to domestic violence or abuse. So the question is, do we need a new understanding of the concept of preparedness? Is the concept of preparedness with which we operate today sufficient to deal with the various crises that may arise? The Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, for example, has launched a term they call "care-care-care-care-care-related approach to families in crisis. When we read about the word «ready», whether it is with the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, in the proposal of the Centre Party here, or in municipalities, emergency centres, etc. the word ‘ready’ is understood as a preparation for an external threat — war, fire, terror, natural disaster, pandemic, etc. - Of course it's absolutely necessary. But this alert link doesn't include the place where danger is most likely to occur, i.e. in people's homes most. Where we feel safest, in fact, is the most dangerous place for many, especially for women and children, and our concept of preparedness does not cover this area. So we have a rather traditional understanding of what's a threat to you and me. It's about creating a threat to prepare us for threats from the outside – an enemy, a natural disaster or a virus – but not threats that are inside. Paradoxically, this failure of the emergency term has been revealed by the corona closure. We have seen that the shut-down has led to many being shut down inside the home with people who can actually be dangerous to them. At the same time, we also see that the police have to use resources to be infectious police and then perhaps to a lesser extent can exercise the protection someone needs at home — in other words, where people are most insecure and where it is most dangerous to people, we have seen a new kind of problem through this pandemic. So my challenge is, and this is also going to the Center Party: by focusing solely on preparedness as one set of an external threat, we are actually hiding in the social debate in Norway what's most dangerous for you and me. I believe that in the debate on preparedness now we need to think a little bit new, and we need to think about how we can expand the concept of preparedness. When we evaluate the pandemic in the next one, it's definitely going to come up again that we're also going to look at a total preparedness in Norway. Then SV shall ensure that the concept of preparedness is extended to be different from the external threats.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e491	The societal security and preparedness challenges are very complex. We live in a world of international tensions and challenges related to climate change, and as a society we are highly dependent on technology. The changes happen quickly, and we're very vulnerable. This is about military crises, terrorism and destabilization. It's about the digital space, it's about food and water supply, it's about health protection and climate change, about migration and financial security. It's about how governments, public agencies, businesses, organisations, volunteering and individuals have different roles, but have to work together. It is about interaction between all those who have to contribute when crises arise. Preparedness is about being in advance, about being prepared and about being ready. I would like to stress that the work on social security and preparedness has been and is a high priority area for the government. There are now evaluations of both crises we've been through and of what we're in the middle of. This must form an important part of the knowledge base for an overall review of preparedness. We therefore believe that when these evaluations are available, the issue of an overall response Commission should be re-examined later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e500	The representatives of Slagsvold Vedum, Arnstad, Navarsete, Klinge and Nordlund stress that the preparedness challenges facing Norway are diverse and complex. The proposers point to challenges related, inter alia, to: terrorism, health preparedness, digital security, migration, security of supply, climate change, national ownership and civil protection. They believe that a comprehensive preparedness Commission is necessary to demonstrate how the overall resources of society can best be used to provide a good preparedness for different crisis situations. I share the opinion of the proposers on the preparedness challenges, but I do not share their view that it is right to set up a comprehensive response committee at this stage. The government regularly promotes documents that provide important insight into our overall preparedness. On 16 October this year, the government promoted its second social security report, Report. Article 5 for 2020-2021, Social security in an uncertain world. The previous message was Meld. St. 10 for 2016–2017, Risk in a Secure Society. The notifications assess the status of key response areas, such as: national security, digital security, climate change, total defence and civil-military cooperation, and local and regional preparedness. In June this year, the government promoted Report. St. 29 for 2019–2020, Police Notice – a police force for the future. It describes the situation of the police today and the development of preparedness following the attacks on the government quarter and the Utøya on 22 July. The Government has also decided to develop a national cross-sectoral counter-terrorism strategy in 2021. It will be an important contribution to the strategic work against terrorism. We are in the middle of the greatest crisis since World War II. The Covid-19 pandemic and the disease prevention measures have had a major impact on all parts of society. We must also expect that this pandemic will last for a while. The government has therefore reduced the Corona Commission in order to have a thorough evaluation of how the wider societal implications of the pandemic have been managed and followed up by the authorities. I therefore believe that the Commission will address several of the issues raised by the proposers. Therefore, I also believe that the time is not right now to carry out a review of the entire emergency response, as a response commission will involve. The question of the establishment of any comprehensive preparedness Commission should be re-examined after the Corona Commission has delivered its report and the follow-up procedure has been clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e530	I wonder where the resistance to putting down such a total emergency commission that we're talking about today really comes from. Today, governments and government parties say that they will wait for a better knowledge base after the evaluation by the Corona Commission. When this matter was discussed last in Stortinget, the government and government parties said that they would wait until the work on the major reforms was done. It could take a long time. What we know is that the idea of a comprehensive response commission has received broad support from voluntary rescue services, the Norwegian Bureau of Officers and a wide range of other actors. There are always new challenges to prepare for. When does the Council of State think it makes sense to have a commission that could involve the various social actors who actually have such an important responsibility in terms of preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e540	It is not that we necessarily disagree that the work should be done – that is the time. We are now in an historic crisis. It requires all of us. In parallel, we have created a commission to evaluate how this is handled. I said at the end of my post that I believe that after the Corona Commission has submitted its work, after we have decided how it should be followed up, we can decide whether to set up a commission like what is proposed here. I think I must stress that such a commission does not live in a vacuum. It requires a lot of resources. Now, of course, we have to serve the Korona Commission on the part of the department. We have to meet them, we have to talk to them, we have to document, we have to work with them – so they have the best basis. It's the same people who are now dealing with a crisis, the same people who are driving society further, and it's the same people you're now going to have to serve another commission. We can't have it that way. We must now use all our energy to deal with the crisis we are in the middle of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e549	I note that the government and the Progress Party believe that we cannot put down a total preparedness commission because we are now in a crisis, but that a commission has been put down to assess the actual crisis we are actually in. When evaluating a crisis and taking lessons, you have to do it quickly and not wait too long after the crisis has occurred. When we see the challenges of interoperability, when we know that there are different actors in society who are going to solve the vulnerabilities we are facing, it is very important that they are not only coordinated, but also involved in an overall national strategy. In the Social Security Communication, the government places more responsibility on the local actors. With regard to the four principles of work on social security and crisis management, the government, under the principle of responsibility, states that the responsible body must decide on what is acceptable risk. It is a very clear signal that local and regional actors need to take more responsibility both before and during a crisis situation. Would it not then be sensible to ensure that there is a total emergency response commission that will listen to the experiences and needs of local and regional actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e556	Firstly, we have not at all waited for the crisis to come to an end. The government was early out there and seized to put down a commission that could just consider crisis management along the way, and that can do so when the pandemic, hopefully, is not too long. But we have to do things in the right order, and right now we have to deal with the most demanding situation our society has been in since the war. I'm a little surprised if the representative is not aware of local responsibility for social security. I have been a local politician for 14 years, and social security was very high on the agenda in the municipality where I was active, and it required us because the crisis occurs in municipalities. The crisis affects people and residents in a municipality, and it affects the business of a municipality. If there's something the municipalities are getting to feel, it's just the handling of the coronary crisis. So the message only confirms what is status, that the municipalities are important in the social security work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e563	As the Council of State is well aware, we have a response resource in Norway that often gets a little in the background, which may not be among those who are the most obvious and speak their own language in the media, and who may not get the attention they deserve. I'm talking about the Civil Defense. The civil defense is assisting a lot of other agencies. It's the police. They assist in health whenever necessary. They assist in many different areas when needed. The problem is that it has made a resource as important as the Civil Defense has not been raised financially over time in the same way as others, and it makes us have a great lag on the material and resource sides. My question to the Council of State is: Will she contribute to lifting civil defence as a response function in Norway, and then listen to the proposals made by the Progress Party in our alternative state budget, where we will actually strengthen civil defence by 150 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e570	First, I would like to thank the representative for bringing forward the important work done by Civil Protection and, as we have really seen, something important in the crisis we are facing. Civil defence has been a very important resource, as well as both home security and police. They have cooperated very well, together, among others. related to the border crossings. Civil defence has been given a proper place in the social security message. Answer to whether I will listen to the Advancement Party: My hope is that we will create a budget with the Advancement Party, and a strengthening of civil defence is of course very welcome. Now we've been able to promise them something in the last few years, but it's absolutely right that there's a maintenance run that we have to take seriously. If that can happen through the budget negotiations, I shall be very happy about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e577	I'm recording that the Council of State seems to be too complicated to launch a total preparedness commission under a pandemic, but a centralising court reform is quite in place. We in the Center Party also submitted a proposal on total preparedness in 2017, and then it was not pandemic. Does the Council of State think that it was more appropriate to make a proposal for a total emergency commission then, three years ago, than it is now? And could we have been better off on the pandemic if such a commission had been set down in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e584	The representative invites me to evaluate whether we could be better prepared. We're in the midst of a crisis, and there's someone other than me to evaluate how well prepared we've been. If we take a look at the countries around us, I would say that the number of people infected, sick, admitted and died in Norway is much better than in other countries. That's very good, but I always think we can get better, and I think we've certainly done things that we'd do in another way. If a commission wanted to change that, I'm not able to answer it. I have not said that it is complicated to put down a commission. You can do that, it's not complicated. I'm just saying that it's labor-intensive, and that you have to do things in the right order. Right now we have a commission that is really working in depth on the most difficult situation this nation has been in since the war. That Commission should be able to deliver its work. We should go through that work, and we should decide how to follow up that work. In view of that, we should make a decision, not now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e591	I mentioned in my main post instead that I perceive that our concept of preparedness is too narrow. It focuses on external threats and does not capture enough of the situations that may be most dangerous to us, namely situations at home. I have two questions: can the Minister of Justice be open to assessing the concept of preparedness, so that it also affects the kind of threats that are perhaps the most comprehensive, namely the threats that are involved, for example. domestic violence? And similarly, how does the Minister of Justice think we were prepared to deal with the changes that took place in the thousands of homes in view of the closure of society? We have received reports of several attacks and more violence in the thousands of homes. Were we prepared to handle it under the corona pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e596	Finally, this representative also invites me to make an evaluation. I'm not going to do that right now. We're still in the middle of a crisis. What I can say is that we were very aware of vulnerable children, vulnerable families and the situation they were in. It was a job we took seriously in several departments, where we followed up both municipalities and statesmen on this. If that was good enough, someone else will be allowed to evaluate. As for the content of the concept of preparedness, I'm not a stranger to discuss it. It's not essentially the content of the term that's important, but what we're doing. There is no doubt that what happens within the four walls of the home can be very, very serious, and that the place that should be safest for children and partners, perhaps the most unsafe. It's important to be ready, and we have. Among other things, we have action plans and efforts to combat violence in close relationships and child abuse, and this is being worked on continuously. But here we can never be good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e603	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e610	I believe that everyone here and everyone in Norway has a great understanding that we are now in a major crisis and that the government is focused on it. That's good, and it's reassuring. The size has also supported the government in the work it has done to speed up action. I find it difficult to see that setting down a total emergency commission would weaken the work done to meet the pandemic right now. First, what I wanted to say was that when the party's representative argues that the party is in favour of a total emergency commission, but against that, because of the 'timination', as the representative Amundsen said, we disagree with that justification. So they're against a total preparedness commission right now, because we're in a crisis. When is it important to gain experience from a crisis? It's actually by looking at it already when you're in a crisis. That's why the government put down a Corona Commission. But then it's also that it's important to look at the breadth of the challenges. If the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the Swedish Labour Party had had an impact, we would have had a total preparedness commission before we were in this crisis. It is important to look at the breadth of the challenges. When the representative Per-Willy Amundsen of the Progress Party says that I criticized the right-hand side in my post, it is interesting. I took up the vulnerability, which is recognised, for example. in local preparedness, interoperability challenges, and I did not mention the Right Party, the Advance Party or the Government in one word. But it's interesting that the representative Amundsen makes a statement about the need for better preparedness as an attack on himself and his own party. It is not only legitimate, but necessary that we discuss the weaknesses we have in today's preparedness and discuss those challenges openly. I think it's not just interesting, but actually a little sad that the Progress Party chooses to make it a party political discussion and rather dismiss the concern I raised in my post, rather than discussing it. The government itself says in the Social Security Communication that there are major challenges with e.g.: the civil protection measures. On page 116 we can read the following: ‘Summary of civil protection measures is generally inadequate and out-of-date and measures will not be able to adequately protect the population.’ The government must have the honour to have the honest address of that problem, but it does not have all the solutions. Who is going to solve the civil protection measures and the needs we have there? There are a wide range of actors who should be involved in creating a national strategy to address one of the major challenges identified by the Commission, which has not been resolved, namely interoperability and coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e629	This is a very good suggestion. As both Martin Henriksen and Jenny Klinge were involved, it was also three years ago. Obviously, I have to admit, the timing three years ago was the best, but then the resistance was as big as it is now. What I understand is that the government party doesn't want to put down this commission, and then there's a little bit of different arguments from time to time. It's a real thing to the extent that it's a real thing. I think it's going to take a new government with the red-green parties to get us to put down such a total preparedness commission. I fully agree with Martin Henriksen that this debate is not primarily about party political attacks, but I am forced to clarify a little when the representative and former Minister of Justice Amundsen claim that the Labour Party and the Red-Green parties were not for the National Emergency Centre. It was the Stoltenberg II government that started planning it. The government of the day shall have praise and honor for the implementation and establishment of the National Emergency Centre. I don't think I have to give so much more credit for it, because the last time I did it, it was with a reading across the country from the Prime Minister, where she said that the leader of the Justice Committee had pointed out that the national preparedness had improved. Yes, the National Emergency Response Centre is very good, we support it, and it's very important. But what the representative, Amundsen, says is the most important thing, is not right. The previous Commission that looked at the preparedness, including: The Yard Commission, very clearly pointed out what was the most important response resource in Norway, and it says very clearly: it's the ordinary police. And that's where the Progress Party has a little bit to answer for. They can sit with so many ministers of justice that we soon don't think who it was, or how many there were. So the legacy of the Progress Party in the Ministry of Justice when it comes to the local police is rather bad. Then, as Martin Henriksen says, there are a number of actors who are calling for a total preparedness commission. The last time in the Committee on Budgetary Control, there was more input into it from the actors named Henriksen. It's a shame we don't get multiple numbers for it today, because if the Progress Party really is for such a total preparedness commission, I think one should vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e638	When we talk about the ability to combat terrorism on Norwegian soil, it is clear that the National Emergency Response Centre is a vitally important resource, but it is quite right that the previous speaker says: the police out there are so important. This is why the Emergency Response Centre is also important, as it gives you the opportunity to train response personnel, so that you can be better able to handle events on Norwegian soil. In this way, the National Emergency Centre is not a resource in the East, as the Central Party calls it, but it is actually a resource for the whole country. The training going on or going on there will be crucial for the police out there in the whole country to be able to deal with terrorism and other events. I do not disagree with some of the issues that are being raised. It's very important to strengthen the police. Therefore, the Progress Party does so in its alternative state budget. We want to strengthen the police by 500 million. SEK: 100 million. kr to combat gang and youth crime and 400 million. kr to strengthen the police force out there. Then we're talking about near-police, the police near most people. So let's take another grip. We're proposing 150 million. kr to strengthen civil protection, which is also a very important resource for managing various crises. With completely different signs, there is a resource that can be inserted in very many situations. I'm listening to the Workers' Party's selective history description. If you have so poor memory that you don't know that during this government period you have had a party political debate on Norwegian preparedness, you haven't followed much in the hour – because you really have. We've discussed it on an ongoing basis. Then it is a little sad to hear that the Workers' Party does not remember that they contributed to creating uncertainty about the Emergency Centre. They tried to deliver in their government period, the previous period. They couldn't do that, what happened. This government cleared up, got Taraldrud in place, got the Police National Emergency Centre in place. But the Workers' Party held a public seminar where they discussed whether or not they supported it. It is a fact – local representatives against the party leadership in the Workers Party – that is a fact. Neither did the Left contribute very much with his present state council, which did what he could to destroy the government's important project. So the same party withdrew from the police reform, which is also very important for building power out there. So the Workers' Party has a broken history and little credibility when we talk about readiness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e651	It has been a long time since Norway last had a total review of preparedness — over 20 years. The centre party therefore believes it is time for a new one. The community has changed considerably since then. In this country, we have experienced acts of terrorism. Technological developments have led to digital attacks. We see how a pandemic can suddenly hit. The security situation in our neighbourhoods has deteriorated, and the long-term defence plan, which was re-submitted now, points to the fact that negative developments will continue. The awareness of vulnerability is high in many parts of society, and the coronary crisis has made weaknesses in national preparedness more visible. Just as the terrorist attack on 22 July 2011 has made us more aware of vulnerability to terrorism, covid-19 has made us more aware of vulnerability in the face of a global pandemic. Norway is a long-distance country with large sea areas, valuable natural resources, a small population and a neighbouring power. The Norwegian coast has a military strategic location that leads us to be more exposed to conflicts. Norway must have a national defence that enables it to tackle a wide range of threats, tackle military crises and provide support to civil society when they occur. The Norwegian food value chain is characterised by many, scattered producers and few, major distribution and purchasing actors. It's vulnerable. We produce less and less of the food we eat, and a very worrying consequence is that we have become more and more dependent on the international market in an international image that is becoming increasingly incomprehensible. People travel more than before, and the possibility of bringing diseases across borders is increasing. The coronavirus pandemic has made it apparent that scarce hospital capacity, lack of medicines and unsafe supplies of infectious and test equipment make Norway vulnerable — a vulnerability that can cost us as a country a lot of money, but is also costly for the individual. More floods, extreme weather, migration and race are the consequences of climate change. So adapting our society is necessary whether or not we can stop rising temperatures. In the last five years, Prime Minister Erna Solberg, Right, supported by the Progress Party and the other government partners in different contexts, have received 16 different proposals from the Centre Party to increase preparedness and ensure national control of societal critical functions in Norway, but all have been downgraded. I look at the setting that the wait-and-see attitude still prevails among these parties. I hope it's not going to be fatal. You can never get enough information, and you'll always be able to find an excuse for postponing such a total review. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e666	It's interesting to hear the debate, because our view of total preparedness is quite consistent. People are busy with it, and this is something we want to do something about. So the question is, is it tricked with a commission, and when is it tricked with a commission? My conclusion about how long we wait is: how many crises will we meet where we could have benefited from having seen down a commission a long time ago? That's why there's nothing to wait with. I have a comment to make to the representative Per-Willy Amundsen when it comes to the National Emergency Response Centre. I totally agree with Amundsen that there is an incredible need for this training at the National Police Emergency Response Centre throughout the country, so that one can become even better and good at interacting with national troops. What I was wondering about is whether the Progress Party, together with the Government Party, has a good plan to ensure that policemen from all over the country can use the Emergency Centre for this purpose and train most and most effectively in line with what is planned. There is no doubt that the cost to the police districts of sending police officers from Finnmark, More and Romesdal and Nord-Trøndelag is quite different from that of the police districts that are close to the central Austland or that have different access to communication to the central Austland. We in the Central Party are deeply concerned that this missing plan, which the government and the Progress Party have when it comes to ensuring that policemen throughout the country actually benefit from this centre in a good way, should go beyond total preparedness. One is totally dependent on having as capable policemen as possible, as well trained policemen as possible, spread throughout the country. So I'd like to encourage these parties to tackle this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e677	Martin Henriksen has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e683	First, I would like to thank the representative Per-Willy Amundsen for responding to the challenges that no one has given him, but not responding to the challenges that have actually been posed in the course of the debate. The important thing is to debate how to meet future challenges. That's what we're doing here today. That's also why the Workers' Party wants a total emergency commission. Several of the reasons why a comprehensive preparedness commission is wise are found in the government’s social security communication, including: where the government writes about the major priority challenges in the years to come and that there is a need to assess the dimension of the civil protection crisis spectrum. It's a big challenge. The government is also saying here that there is no solution to it today, but it is obvious that it is the kind of challenges that need to be discussed widely with civil society actors, together with the public, where the different actors have a role, are involved in exactly those issues, and where one knows each other's challenges and realities, so that one gets a national strategy that addresses that kind of challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e692	Societal preparedness is one of the most important things we have to secure our citizens. The need for preparedness is present in many different situations and with many different scenarios, both civil and military. It's almost 20 years since we had a complete review of the preparedness. Over the same 20 years, the development of society has been on record, and the Central Party clearly believes that there is a great need for a comprehensive response commission. As I said, the need for preparedness comes in many different ways. These could be terrorist incidents, military threats, natural disasters, ICT crises – such as the United States. The recent invasion of Stortinget – power failure, contaminated drinking water and the need for food preparation. The centre party has proposed a comprehensive response Commission over a period of time. The Stortinget last considered a proposal that we promoted in 2017. In that proposal health was also a major issue. Preparing for health crises, including: antibiotic resistance and pandemics were quite specifically mentioned as having to go through an overall preparedness Commission. Then we can look at what has happened since we promoted that proposal, and since the size of the government parties at the head voted down the proposal to investigate preparedness, among other things. for health. Since 1510, there have been 18 pandemics in Norway that are known. The time period has varied. It has been approx. 10 to 40 years between them. In the 20th century there have been four. It was the Spanish disease in 1918, the Asiatic disease in 1957, the Hong Kong disease in 1968, and the Russian flu in 1977. Then it is a little over 40 years before our time – so it is not quite unlikely that a new pandemic would occur. If you look at the risk analysis that DSB made and updated in 2018, you will find the following: «In view of the historical frequency of influenza pandemics, the likelihood that Norway will again be affected by an influenza pandemic is assessed to be high». In the 2018 risk assessment there is even an imaginary scenario where it states: ‘A new influenza virus that is primarily infected by drip infection and with 1 to 2 days incubation time is detected in Thailand in mid-December. The virus spreads rapidly, and the influenza pandemic reaches Norway in mid-January. The pandemic reaches its peak after six weeks and lasts for four months. Vaccine is not available in Norway during the flu pandemic and antivirals are not effective.’ It was a thoughtful scenario that DSB wrote in 2018, and now we are standing here – in the midst of a health crisis that is not so very different. Maybe we could have been better prepared if we had a total preparedness commission. I believe it is important and timely to get in place, and I think it is a pity that the government parties and the Progress Party are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e718	Thank you for a good and important debate. The representative Klinge asked a very good question that I could probably comment on in my post, but then I do. The new emergency centre, which unfortunately we did not open last Friday because of the Corona situation, but which is now in operation, is itself a great strength for the whole country. The fact that the crews of our national response teams work together, know each other, train together with completely top facilities, will strengthen preparedness across the country. There must be no doubt about it. Of course, events happen in the districts. It is claimed that the police are less present than before. They are not at all – they are more present than before. They're moving on to more events than before, and those events are pulling police personnel in the districts. So it's very important that community response personnel also get to use the center, get to know the emergency team, with the bombing team, with hostage dealers, that they practice together, and that they get that basis when something happens. That's why it's set at 26 million. to this end in the next year's budget. Whether you're in Finnmark, More and Romesdal or in Agder, our intervention forces are going to go to the emergency centre and train there. Twenty-six million. half of the response personnel will be able to train every year, and this is an important contribution to strengthening preparedness across the country. So I want to say that it's happened a lot. Nothing has happened since the Vulnerability Committee 20 years ago or the Gjørv Commission after the incident in 2011. A lot has happened. We have delivered two social security messages, and we have delivered a police message. We have provided two long-term plans for the defence and a major communication on ICT security. There are annual counter-terrorism exercises in place, we have set up a national cybersecurity centre, and we have strengthened the national response force by over 60 pst. in staff since 2013. We've increased the proportion of police personnel, and we've put in new boats, new helicopters, new cars, and all this helps us to have a strong preparedness across the country. From next year's budget, I want to highlight the importance of having a new fire and rescue school built in Teldensund. Two thirds of the municipalities do not have full-time employees in the fire service. Now 160 students are given the opportunity to take this important education without already having a job in a fire department. It will strengthen preparedness throughout the country, and that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e737	I am not going to contribute to this debate much longer, and thank you to the Council of State for a brilliant closure. But I would like to thank the Committee and the representatives for a good debate. It's noticing with all the clarity that social security and preparedness are important for everyone regardless of the party we belong to, and that's a good thing anyway. Often we are able to cope with major crises. It's a quality at Stortinget. But in this I have to be allowed to say that I am, please, a little surprised that one says that we are not in agreement, that we are trying to train a total emergency committee. That's definitely not what we said. We've said we're open to evaluate it. I'm still surprised, and perhaps the most surprising thing about the Workers' Party in particular, which thinks this is the right time to spend a lot of resources, because that will require it. There are a lot of areas that need to be included in a global preparedness review – that we are going to use our resources on this when we are in the midst of the greatest crisis we have seen in modern times. I would like to have an explanation for that, but I should not ask for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e744	Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e750	I'll be brief. I feel the need to respond to some incomprehensible attack from the Workers' Party. There is reason to understand why the Workers' Party is so concerned only with looking forward and not looking backwards, because – as I have just pointed out – it is not such that the Workers' Party has so much to boast about during this period of government, all the time it has been a little less constructive. But then it's also important for the Progress Party to say, like what the Right says, that it's not like we reject such a commission. I want such a commission at a later stage. But what we're through now, what we're experiencing now in 2020, the covid-19 situation, is going to be analyzed and researched for a long time in the future, and then we should have the most knowledge in place before we draw the long lines of Norwegian preparedness, also on the pandemic side. It's obviously important to wait here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e759	I wonder what the government parties really think is the right time, because we've suggested this before, and then they said the same thing, no, we're not against it, but it's not right now. If I don't remember completely wrong, it was because it was thought that the police reform had to get settled because it was the biggest change in the history of the police, and that was the reason. Then we got a pandemic, and we could never have foreseen that, but it happens now. Every year, there are other disasters. We've had drought, we've had landslides, we've had ICT crises – there's a lot of them. It's always going to happen. So I wonder, when is it the Right Party and the Government Party realize that we can do that? Can we wait until the day we're in paradise and nothing happens? Then I think there'll never be any of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e764	What we said in 2018, when we dealt with this matter last, was that we could assess it when the evaluation of the great NATO exercise was completed – I don't think I should say the word, because I never get it – and when the total defence programme was completed in 2020. As I said in my first post, a follow-up to the evaluation of the NATO exercise is now being carried out, and the overall defence programme will be completed by 2020. It's not finished yet. But the most important reason is that we cannot use our resources and capabilities in such a comprehensive Commission work as this will mean when we are in the midst of the biggest crisis in Norway in modern times. We didn't think this was the right time to take it up, but we're not at all against considering it when it's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e771	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e788	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who may sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e795	I'm going to present the Committee's view and process on this, and then in a later article I'm going to say a little bit about how my party views this. [[Rapporteur: Mr van den Broek]] It is the Central Party which is the proposer, and they then put forward a proposal which reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an external evaluation of the Court of Justice [[DA]] The background to this is that this has emerged as a response to the role of the DA in the structural reform of the courts in Norway, and then questions have been asked about the role of the DA in cooperation with the Court of Justice Commission. The proposer considers that an evaluation must examine the extent to which the policy position of the DA has affected the priorities of the management body and the framework that should apply to the DA as a legal actor. The Judicial Committee notes that the proposer refers to the establishment of the DA as a central administrative body of the Norwegian courts in 2001. The Courts shall be independent and the Administrative Board of the Court of Justice shall have no power to intervene in the work of the courts. It is also referred to that the DA has not been evaluated in nearly 20 years. The Committee sees that the proposers ask for the evaluation to look at the organisation of the DA and how the DA performs its role as administration, including the balance between different roles related to governance and support, legal policy and development. Then the proposal also asks for a mix of roles between the DA and the Commission, and the proposer states that a possible mix of roles can be problematic and weaken the confidence of DA as a management body. Then, of course, the proposer says that the evaluation must be carried out by an independent actor, and that is quite obvious. On the other hand, the government says that they refer to that court commission and point out that several of these tasks are to be covered by the work of the Commission. I would like to thank the Committee for its fine work. It hasn't been a very demanding job, because the positions are very clear here. The centre party is on its own, there are no other parties supporting the proposal. SV has made a separate proposal on this, and I will explain that in a separate article.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e817	The Workers' Party supports the intention both in the proposal from the Centre Party and from the SV that administrative bodies should be evaluated. What we still think is the most important thing to do now, is what the red-green parties do together in Document 8:36 S for 2019-2020, about quiet rental and structure. I think it's now most important to make changes to the court law that clears up and tightens up until what we're experiencing is the germ, and perhaps also the background for, the proposal from the Center Party here today. If we adopted the amendments contained in Document 8:36, it would be much clearer about the mandate and authority of the Court of Justice than it is today. It is now most important for the Labour Party to ensure that we continue to have a decentralised court structure in the country and qualitatively strong, good courts. Here we think it is important to ensure that changes in the court structure are addressed in Stortinget, as we are doing with the proposition that is being discussed in the committee. We also believe that one should tighten the law when it relates to DA's ability to decide common lease – we think it should be a quiet lease as a general rule. We also believe it is important that the Storting takes a real discussion about what is in the scope of ‘voluntary aggregation’. The Labour Party will refer to the unity we gained together with the Senterpartiet, SV and the Progress Party in May in the spring, where we went out together and said we would vote against the government's proposal for judicial reform. We hope that this will be part of the current process and look forward to the debate on the whole of the reform of the judiciary, the structure, the use of urban leadership and the role of the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e826	I would say that one of the very best measures of the first Stoltenberg government in 2000 was the creation of the DA. DA was given a highly professional and independent management of the courts, which also had an arm's length distance from departments and could have a freer role up against Stortinget – a basic good idea. One thing must be quite clear, and that is that when the DA was created, a mandate was given. A mandate was given with both the right and the obligation to believe and make professional recommendations on political issues, and that is difficult. It's very, very difficult in that field. We all know that professional recordings do not always have good growth conditions in Stortinget, so it requires a court administration to go into such a minefield. But it also requires our politicians – that we manage to keep our tongues straight in our mouths, that we respect the professionalism and integrity of the judiciary when they think things, and that we do not cross a line. For many years, the administration of the Court of Justice has meant a lot that has gone all the way across the viewpoint of my own party, and we have received criticism. In recent months, much of the opinion of the Court of Justice has crossed the opposition’s viewpoint, especially that of the Centre Party. Then it's very special to answer that criticism with an evaluation. It can be seen as a systematic attempt to draw the DA's legitimacy and independence into doubt. We are not against an evaluation. All administrative bodies must be evaluated at some point, and so must the various governmental powers. We've done that with e.g. the Court of Justice. However, proposing an evaluation so directly in relation to a single issue where there is major political disagreement is very problematic. We could call it an evaluation, but I think it's perceived as a criminal evaluation, or even an audit. Then we can reflect a little bit on what signal it sends. We can ask the Judge's Association, which immediately began to draw parallels to Poland. Those aren't my words, but I think it makes a little bit of an impression when the Norwegian Judicial Association draws that parallel. We can ask the court administration itself, which I think is sitting with a feeling that their room for expressing themselves and thinking things is being put under pressure by this. So we can think, what signal does it send to other organs, which might see what happens when the court administration does its job? Will they also be put under scrutiny and met with evaluation or investigation commissions if they strongly believe in political issues? We have to think about the dampening effect this has on the debate. I know that the Center Party may have a need for a marker in this question, and when the DA speaks against their view, it's natural that they want to answer it. But to answer in this way is a record bomb, and I am therefore very, very happy that the rest of the Storting says clearly no to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e843	Like the previous speaker, I have to say that it seems strange in what way, in what context and with what timing the Central Party has chosen to promote this proposal which is under consideration today. It appears to be a bit of a criminal practice against a professional body that has only come up with what is professional judgement, which the Central Party perceives to be on a collision course with its political stance, which then generates a proposal like this. At least it's close to thinking like that, that it's the motivation that's behind it. In that case, if it's right, it's an expression of an almost authoritarian mindset, because it means stopping opinions that you don't like yourself, rather than having a politically open debate, and you can't distinguish between what is professional advice and what is political position. There are a lot of reasons to listen to professional advice, but it's not like professional advice trumps politics. That's why we have a big deal, that's why we have – let's say – a greater degree of democracy than they might have in our neighbouring country of Sweden, where professional bodies have been given an extreme opportunity to overrun politicians, in a completely different way than in Norway. Norway is a people's government. But what becomes a little special in this matter is also that while the Centre Party is promoting this proposal, while the Centre Party is helping to create an unlucky situation in the border between politics and professionalism, they are accusing the same body in public via various media – ‘as we speak’, I kept saying, to say it in terms of neuronism – through the local media for what are assumptions, yes, I would like to say conspirative thinking about what the same body, the Court administration, intends to do. And then, of course, I'm talking about the extension of this discussion, which goes into the court structure. When you don't take the word either what the proposition says, what the government signals, and what comes out of the court administration itself, it's very strange. Even other political parties are accused of having a hidden agenda – in a matter of which there may be political disagreement. The Progress Party has not drawn its conclusions, it has not decided what to think, but the premises for debate that the Centre Party operates and creates around the entire court structure via various local media are direct disinformation. That is not a good, fruitful starting point for a political debate. I wish you wouldn't contribute to what we see in other parts of the world, giving your opponents opinions that they don't recognize at all, and that contribute to creating a polarized debate that is by no means real. That's what they call fake news. The result today is, of course, that this proposal is being voted down, and that is good. So I fully agree with what the representative Frülich says, that doesn't mean to rule out, that doesn't mean we're not going to have a possible evaluation at another time, but then based on the right intentions. We also have a lot to think about from the positions, the proposals that have come from the Court Commission, where I think we need to look at the whole of Norwegian courts, because we are facing some challenges that are far more than court structure and division in circles. It's about the rule of law and the future of the rule of law and how we choose to organize. And that is perhaps the debate we should be more concerned with than having a discussion that – I was saying – is about punishing a professional body with which one is politically disagreeable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e854	It is certainly not parliamentary to say that what comes out of the mouth of another representative is tragic. I choose to say it anyway, because what came out of the mouth of the last speaker, was just that. To carry out evaluations of public and government bodies is not uncommon. On the contrary, it is a natural and necessary part of making public bodies and agencies function optimally and in line with the expectations of the mandate. As an example, an evaluation was carried out by the Police Directorate, POD, a few years after it was established in 2001. On the other hand, the court administration, which was created at about the same time, has never been the subject of an evaluation. It should therefore be possible to have a unanimous increase in support of a proposal to evaluate this Central Administrative Board of General Courts and Earthquakes. The courts themselves are independent of the magistrate, and the judiciary has no authority in this area. Thus, an evaluation of the Court’s administration does not in any way undermine the independence of the courts. But this is clearly the day when the government party and the Progress Party talk about bad timing – they can't be involved in this proposal because of the 'timing'. It is entirely possible to be in favour of all the judicial authorities, and yet go in to evaluate them as administrative bodies. It is also fully possible to be critical of parts of the administration of the Court of Justice, while at the same time being for a neutral and fully independent evaluation of that administrative body. That's what we've done in the Center Party here. We are in favour of an external — I stress external — evaluation that will look at all aspects of the Court of Justice in order to assess whether they have acted on the basis of their intention and whether they have exercised their mandate in a satisfactory manner in all courts. The members of the Judicial Committee from the Right, the Left and the Progress Party have some strange considerations about this proposal from us in the Central Party. They think that our proposal is motivated by the fact that the court administration has come up with professional advice and recommendations that have crossed our line of view. I refer here to their comments, where they say: ‘Signals which this sends may, in the worst case, act as a inhibitor or as a activator of the staff and board of the Court of Justice, and there is a development against which these members will strongly warn.’ This is customs talk, in good Norwegian. It is alarming if the reason why these three parties cannot support the evaluation of the Court of Justice administration is that in the Central Party we have been so free that we have suggested that this governing body may have had a political agenda and that we have criticised some of their views. The Government Party and the Advance Party should rather welcome the proposal and consider such an evaluation of DA as the perfect opportunity to prove that they have never done anything of what we in the Central Party have suggested. This applies, for example: to promote a massive centralisation of courts by not allowing smaller courts to participate in developments to the same extent as the larger courts. What I'm asking is what the government party and the Progress Party are afraid that such an evaluation will show. There has been great distrust of the Court of Justice from many different courts, both in hearings and in hearings on 4 November, which paints a very serious picture of the priorities and the functioning of this administrative body. Then one might wonder if the Progress Party and the Government Party think that the audio recordings and the actors in the listening ring have been instructed in some way. This should, of course, make the Government Party and the Progress Party curious as to whether there is a reason for the mistrust and criticism that come from what should be a governing body, not a political body. Instead, these parties act as totally uncritical themselves and perform an external evaluation. For my part, it would be quite fine if this evaluation summarized that the court administration has done everything they should, but this will not find out the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party. It is with history that we are now discussing a proposal from the government to new judicial reform, but without the Court administration having ensured that the previous reform has been evaluated. The previous judicial reform was adopted in 2001. Thus, an evaluation of this has not been carried out, other than that carried out by the DA on its own, and without involving more than a few courts. Doing evaluations of public and government bodies is not uncommon, as I said at the outset. On the contrary, it is quite common to evaluate, and there is absolutely no reason to consider a proposal to carry out an evaluation as a declaration of war or as an expression of an authoritarian disposition, as the representative Amundsen calls it, nor when there is any reason to criticize anything in the process. If we get a public sector where it's impossible to get multiples to evaluate entities and bodies that someone finds reason to criticize, it'll be hopeless. It should be a natural and necessary part of public activity. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e886	The representative then drew up the proposal to which she referred. The President reminds the representative that 'customs speaking' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e893	The Court administration was established 20 years ago, and their task is to include and be a driver, initiator and co-operator in terms of development measures in the courts, both digital development, development of business objectives and organisational development. An important part of the mandate of the Court of Justice administration is also to communicate views and needs towards corruption and government. This means that they have both the right and the duty to provide professional advice on how the courts should be conducted. Assessing whether changes should be made to the current legal order of the courts is part of the mandate of the Court of Justice, see paragraph 1. NOU 2020: 11, Third State Power — The Courts as amended, presented on 30 September. The Commission here considers that the existing system of central court administration is well-functioning and recommends maintaining the main features of the system. We record that the Centre Party seems to be opposed to all kinds of changes in Norwegian courts, and the Left is concerned that they seem to assign the administration to have a political agenda rather than to make professional judgements and provide professional advice. It is detrimental to trust in public authorities and, ultimately, a problem for democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e902	Initially, I want to make it clear that the government agrees that it is important to evaluate the functioning of public enterprises. There was also some background to the government asking an independent court commission in 2017 to consider whether changes should be made to the current administrative arrangements of the courts. The judicial administration was established in due time to ensure that the judicial activities take place at the necessary distance from the executive. The Court of Justice is not an ordinary administrative body but is managed by a board of strong judges. It is their job to be the initiator and the driving force behind development measures in just the courts. It is their right and duty to reason on matters relating to the courts. We politicians depend on professional advice to make informed and correct decisions. The Court of Justice therefore considers that the existing system of central court administration is functioning well, and recommends that the system be maintained and further developed. The minority of the Committee considers that the work of the Court of Justice Commission cannot be used as an adequate evaluation due to a mix of roles between the Commission and the Court of Justice. The Court of Justice Commission was set up to investigate the organisation and independence of the courts for the future. I believe that the central administration of the courts was legally represented in this selection. The Commission was composed of persons with knowledge and competence who made it appropriate to assess the issues raised in the draft representative. So I do not think it is necessary to start a new external evaluation of the Court of Justice administration. The representative’s proposal appears partly to be prompted by the views of the Court of Justice administration on the need for changes in the judicial structure. I would like to warn against the signals we send if we are to evaluate public enterprises whenever they disagree with representatives of government or corruption. It is particularly effective in the case of the third state power. The essence of a State governed by law is that the courts shall not be subject to political control or control. Political disagreement as the input to an evaluation could weaken the decision-making base of the decision-making authorities. It knows best where the shoe prints, which has it on it. The Court’s investigation is now being consulted, and in the light of this, we are due to carry out a proper assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e919	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e925	I want to remind you that if the Center Party had evaluated DA or other bodies every time we disagree with them, we wouldn't have had so much more to do than that. In this case, it's not the theme. In general, I found that both the Council of State and other representatives were exaggerating something quite unlikely in the mention of the matter. I have a question for the Council of State relating to her own party interests in the Judicial Committee as a reason to reject an evaluation of DA. They indicate that we have had some critical comments and asked questions, and they categorically refuse to carry out an evaluation even if we have agreed that it will of course be carried out by an external and neutral party. Does the Council of State consider that there is a need to evaluate the government body that no batch or other actor finds reason to question any of the government bodies involved? Is this going to be government practice for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e932	I think I can answer no to such a question without further delay – it was of a general nature. I don't think you can ever think about that. I've answered what the government's view is. We therefore believe that public enterprises should be reviewed, and we believe that we have reviewed the administration of the Court of Justice. This is done differently in the case of the Court of Justice than in the case of other establishments. This is not a normal management activity. The Court of Justice is our third state power. It is equal to the Storting and the Government, and it is not subject to our control or control. Therefore, it is important to maintain this independence. Then, of course, it was for us to put down a commission where the court administration was also represented.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e941	I wonder if the Council of State thinks it's a violation of the independence of the courts to have an external and neutral evaluation of DA?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e946	Basically, I think I can answer no to that question as well. It depends on what you mean by ‘external’. If the representative Klinge believes that an evaluation group of people who have nothing to do with the courts at all, I'm going to find it very strange. I always think that knowledge and insight give a better review than not having it. But when I have answered questions today, it is because I believe we do not need this. I think we've got a court commission's assessment of the situation. We know what the courts mean, what the Judiciary's opinion is, how many people involved in the Court of Justice think. I don't think there's a need for a new review of this, whether you call it external or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e953	I wonder if the Council of State believes that the Court of Justice has been put together in such a way that there is reason to believe that sour writers, judges and others in the courts around the country know that they themselves are represented, and that the Court Commission has carried out an evaluation of the administration of the Court of Justice on which they can feel safe? Is it done in such a way that all the conclusions are clear? Or could there be reason to actually have an external and neutral evaluation of such a body, which has existed for so long?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e958	I don't know what the word 'external' means in this context. I believe that in such an evaluation you should not have had any representatives of the Court of Justice at all. I would think that was very strange. I think the Commission had a good composition. It was composed of representatives of both large and small districts and law enforcement, from north to south, geographically and in size. So, of course, you can look at the Commission's composition rather than looking at the result. We are now there to discuss the outcome of the Commission's work. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is There we have had one hearing, we have promoted one case for Stortinget, and we now have a new hearing, where we will get input from all parts of the country and from everyone who wants to participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e965	This proposal raises a number of critical questions relating to the administration of the Court of Justice – the administrative organ to be noted, so that no one is in doubt that there is an administrative body that we are talking about, not the courts. A criticism also raised by the Stortinget, by several government councils in Erna Solberg and also by the members of the Judicial Committee, is the widespread use of joint leadership. It's also said, I don't think of who, but at least of two FrP state councils in today's government, that this should only be useful in a special case. Does the Council of State think that the administration of the Court of Justice is using joint lease only in a very specific case?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e972	The administration of the Court of Justice is an administrative body, but it is not an ordinary administrative body. It is a body with its own board, which is independent, and has both the right and the duty to believe and to set up the job as they believe the courts are best served with. Then, of course, the sovereigns of bigots and parties are entitled to disagree with the decisions taken by the Court of Justice, and you have both the right and the opportunity to address matters here in this Chamber. I do not think you have gone beyond your mandate here, but there will be disagreement depending on how you view this. I believe that the changes that have been made have been necessary. I think they give good results. So here the eyes are looking, and here you might disagree with the judgements made by the board and the court administration in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e979	Just so I get clarity in the answer to my question: does the Council of State mean that what has been said by at least two ministers of justice in Erna Solberg's government about the use of joint rental, that it should only be used in a very specific case, that it is the administration of the Court of Justice today? Do I understand that the answer from the Council of State is yes to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e984	I don't think it says it in very special cases – I think it says it in very special cases. I believe that the administration of the Court of Justice has adhered to their mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e989	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e997	I think the representative Klinge gave a good description of the view of the Center Party. This is about getting an external and independent evaluation of the court administration, and I think it is surprising that this is interpreted in the absolute worst sense by the government parties. I wonder what you really are afraid of should come up with in a possible evaluation, and I think that if you think that the Court administration is working optimally today, you should rather support an evaluation that will show just that. Then I want to comment on some of the things that have come out. I would also like to thank the Council of State for what I experienced as a matter of fact. It's anything but factual, what I feel characterizes the debate on the courts in general. Already during this debate, the representative Frölich mentioned that some have drawn a parallel between the debate style of the Central Party and that of Poland and Hungary. I don't like that way of debating. Over the past week, I've been accused of lying. I have been accused of disinformation. Right-wing representatives have sent out a large article in the media comparing the Central Party with some political leadership in the United States in the last four years. And to the representative, Schytz: Her first reaction to the proposal for a representative that we are now discussing was that she interpreted it as an attack on individuals and threats, and she wrote in an introduction to the debate that the Central Party is taking the first step towards a totalitarian state. It's not possible to hold on like that! This I think we have to put away. It is extremely difficult to debate anything about the courts in a factual way, because I feel that factual arguments based on facts are being met with that type of rhetoric. It doesn't bring anything good at all. The representative Frölich said in his statement that the Court of Justice had a clear mandate to make professional input and recommendations. That's right. What is the problem is that they have taken a number of steps that also advance many of the professional recommendations, for example. common management, that they have had clear opinions on how the Court Commission should be put together to be reform-oriented, that there is no representation from smaller courts One last thing: this is interpreted as an attack on the court administration in the light of the court structure debate. I just remind you that it is the Right who has put forward a constitutional proposal that the Court of Justice administration should be independent – in the light of the same debate. It's a stronger signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1012	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1017	SV has its own proposal in this matter. It's put forward, and I'll now explain it. It is definitely one of Storting’s most important tasks to ensure that the Norwegian court has confidence and that it is independent. This is a crucial task for us, and we have succeeded in doing so in Norway – absolutely. If we look at developments in many other countries, we see that the independent court and the rule of law are under pressure. Poland has been referred to here, and we see in the United States, for example, how courts and the Supreme Court are getting an increasingly political role. DA is a very central actor precisely in securing the independent court. It is at the heart of the fact that the rule of law should not be under political control, and we must then have administrative bodies that are able to contribute in this perspective. Therefore, it is also important for SV to evaluate the DA, but perhaps not on the premises set up by the Center Party. Then I regret what has come to the representative Emilie Enger Mehl, etc. Of course, it is awful if there are such accusations in this case. But at the same time, I would warn against an evaluation of the DA being linked to or limited to a suspicion of whether the DA has had a political role related to the reorganisation of the courts. This will mean ordering an evaluation, but the conclusion is really clear in advance, and this is a very bad starting point for an evaluation. I think an evaluation is important, but then you have to have a neutral and questionable starting point. I hear that the representatives of the Central Party reject that they do not have it, but they must also take responsibility for what impression they give in this case, and they do not give the impression that they have a neutral and questionable starting point. SV thinks we should evaluate DA, but it should be in a much larger and perhaps more visionary perspective. I am concerned that we are evaluating the DA with the aim of ensuring a further independent legal state. Questions that can then be evaluated are: How has DA contributed to ensuring and making visible the independence of the courts? How has DA played its role as a legal actor? So it's fully possible to evaluate DA, and I think we should, but we're going to have an open and questionable approach to this, based on the central task of the Storting, and that's to ensure an independent legal state in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1032	The representative Petter Eide then drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1037	I'm just going to keep going where I left off. There will be a debate on the independence of the Court of Justice administration because of the constitutional proposal that has been put forward by the Right. I'm not sure if the Right itself is behind it, it might be right about now. I believe, in any case, that there is an important debate, because one thing that I experience is drowning very much in this discussion about the administration of the Court of Justice and the courts, etc., is that there is a clear difference between the independence of the courts that is linked to the judiciary and any independence that the administration of the Court of Justice might have. I feel that not everyone is quite clear when we discuss it. So there's a lot of representatives here that I really think can answer for. Is it such that the representative Schytz believes that the Senter party has taken the first step towards a totalitarian state with the proposal that we are now discussing? I think it is quite a serious accusation that can be answered. Is it such that the Council of State Monica Mæland or the Justice Spokesman Peter Frölich is behind the Right-wing politicians Anna Molberg and Kari-Anne Jønnes, who writes that we are starting to look like ‘a certain political leadership in the United States’ in recent years? And why would that be? I'd like to hear more about it if they actually mean it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1046	It really gave me a good opportunity to elaborate on why we are in a very difficult and problematic debate about the courts. It feels a little bit like running around and shutting down fires after a pyromaniac, because there's little uprisings going on all over the country, based on very, very misleading representations of what's actually going on in the court sector. I'm sorry if any of the descriptions don't hit, but it's actually a little bit difficult to find the striking descriptions of what's really going on. It's left a feeling that courts are being laid down all over the country. What impression do you have if you hear that the court is laid down? Well, it's the hook on the door, disembarkation, empty premises, no activity. That's what the impression is that people are left with. But the reality is that you might as well say that Bergen is being laid down, and in the same second, Hordaland appears objectively. It's a difference of essence; it's a shade that's important to get there. The impression is totally absent from the small fires that are now burning around the country. There are also claims that have gone a lot, much longer. Claims have been made that 4,000-5000 district jobs disappear as a result of this proposal. In politics it must be allowed to make claims, but at some point it falls outside the definition and transitions into completely spectacular imagination. 4 000 to 5 000 district jobs — at least it should be a VG heading. But that's not true. If there's any other proof of this, it's possible to use the pulpit to substantiate the claims. I think it is a little important that we remain in agreement with the debate here. I'm not going to join in and fire anything more under the characteristics that have come, but let's take the professional recordings that DA has made, seriously, don't let's meet them with threats of evaluation and investigation. If you disagree, you disagree, it's fair. They've experienced that before -- actually, I think they've experienced it a majority of the times they've had proposals that have been for debate in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1055	The representative Enger Mehl referred to a debate that I had several places earlier this year, where I wrote that if we threaten professionals to remain silent because they disagree with us politicians, we move towards a totalitarian state. I'm standing by. I think that this case has been very demanding in the sense that there have been accusations that the Court of Justice has a political agenda rather than providing professional advice, and that it has also given rise to a personal criticism by the Director of the Court of Justice. I find that very regrettable, and this kind of debate, in such an important matter, I do not think the matter deserves it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1060	Ladies and gentlemen, we now note that this debate may have drifted a little beyond what the proposal is about, but it is actually a bit of the essence of this matter. For the Workers' Party's part, the most important thing we do is this cottage, to deal with the court structure politically in Stortinget. So let's do that. This is where the Labour Party has given up the government party for the longest time. We are disunity in the matter, but still have a great hope that the Progress Party will stand by what they promised in May, and which will enable us to secure independent courts throughout the country. The debate that is going on, and the conflict that is now taking place between the Right Party and the Center Party out in the newspapers, is being very polarized, but it's a fact that if one merges the District Court in White Sea and the Notodden with the Ski, then one has laid down the Notodden and White Sea as independent courts. Then we're left with the question, what about the courts? Now we can read in the magazine of Rome that the Progress Party comes with guarantees of property rights, and the Right's members around the country say that now there will be even stronger courts around the districts. But in the proposition we're dealing with, it says there shouldn't be any minimum crew. So now I'm pretty sure I'm on the red-green page's description of what that reform will do to future things in Norway. At best, it might be that the sorrenprinter thought it was a good idea to keep manning a place. It's nice, it's, but we in the Labour Party think the Stortinget should take a greater responsibility for the future court structure when it comes to both staffing, janitors and urban leadership, and also the government invites in the proposition: to take a discussion about what is voluntary aggregation. There's these things we should do something about. Whether or not to evaluate the Court of Justice, I don't think it's that much to say. The most important thing now is to streamline the laws, so that we from Stortinget make it clear and clear what is the mandate and authority of the Court administration, and that the Stortinget takes a stand on what kind of future court structure one will have. There are many feelings in turn and great commitment to the cause. Of course, I urge everyone to conduct the debate in a factual way and not to claim that political opponents are driving false news because one is disunity in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1075	Some of the most important things that politicians do are to be truthful about the facts. So we can have different opinions about what arguments are valid and reasonable, but what I'm experiencing right now is massive shooting at us in the Center Party for as well as doing everything wrong, my all wrong and come with wrong facts. What is absolutely certain is that the evidence lies on those who make claims that according to the Center Party it is such that 4,000 – 5,000 jobs will be lost – as Peter Frülich said instead. The burden of proof lies on those who claim that all courts will continue to exist even if one joins legal circles, in line with what the government proposes. I'm easily surprised that lawyer Peter Frölich can stand here and say that the courts will be upheld when courts are going to merge. Because there's one thing that we hear clearly from sorenprinters around – even the Court Administration and the Judiciary Association, I think I'm gonna be able to get it out of my ears – is that one is going to go to court if one joins legal circles. I really wonder how the Right and the other parties are able to defend the claim that the rights of property and land change rights will be maintained when one actually combines from 60 to 23 things and from 34 to 19 land change rights. It's not possible to say, because what's going to be left is 23 things, the rest is going to be sub-divisions. Equally, it is with the land change rights - there are sub-divisions of those who are not maintained with the land change status. Then your courts are laid down, as simple as that. I'm not a lawyer, but I have a little bit of brain, and I think I'm using him enough to understand that it's about -- I'm not going to use the expression I used in the newspapers -- a good game with words from the government party and the Progress Party's side. It's about decorating reality so that people will believe in it, enough not to rebel against courts being laid down, but then their people with their beards in the mailbox on the day they've actually been in it bad. Then I have a comment on the 4,000 – 5000 jobs that we're supposed to have claimed will be lost. We haven't. We have said that 400–500 jobs are at stake if the government's proposals on the property rights are agreed and they are converted into subdivisions. Because what we have every reason to believe is that sub-divisions of property rights and land change rights are not going to have the same evolution in the years that are coming, as if they had been independent property rights and independent land change laws. Then it's not just their own jobs that get thinned out in the worst case. It's also about a lawyer's environment, police lawyers, etc. in the areas where the rights of objects disappeared. We in the Center Party actually stick to the facts, and we're getting very good reports from lawyers, troublemakers and the surrounding environment that should have a bearing on this. I wish that the Right could start listening to them more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1086	The Committee is far from discussing a completely different matter from the one we are dealing with today, but let me contribute in the middle of the discussion that is about something completely different – court structure – that comes to the Stortinget later, before Christmas. I think it's a little special that you come up with so many accusations about intentions, about – I kept saying – snitching and that kind of thing. I would say, like the chairman of the committee, that I wish we had a more tidy debate and did not contribute to attacking through 'proxy', attacking other political parties, yes, even the court administration, for having some sort of hidden agenda. If I interpret it as an extensive hand to the Progress Party of the Workers' Party and the other opposition parties in order for us to agree on that edge – because the Progress Party has not taken a stand on this matter – it will at least not help with the attacks that our people are being subjected to in local ways with accusations that we have a hidden agenda. It does not contribute to an informed debate; it does not contribute to talking about the real facts of the matter. Then you can discuss semantics from here to the moon. No one claims that all the district courts are being upheld, but the local courts are still going to exist. The local courts will continue to exist with staff, based on the government’s proposal. I also do not believe that there is evidence to make a kind of claim in this debate that this should be about empty premises. No, of course not. But once the Storting enters, as the government has now asked the Storing to do, and it draws the right circuit map -- when we first do it -- we don't do it because it's going to be redefined by someone else afterwards. When involving Stortinget, the country's top political body, to decide what the court structure in Norway will look like in the future, Stortinget does. Then, too, the assumption is that if you are willing to make changes, you have drawn up that map in Stortinget, and then underlying establishments cannot come back and redefine it. I believe that is a matter of course. It will, of course, take care of the Storting in any case when you deal with and decide on a matter like this. Let's go into the real circumstances of the matter, let's discuss it on the right premises and not accuse each other of having hidden agendas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1097	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1103	The full quote from Solvency Schytz's representative was: ‘If we threaten professionals to remain silent because they disagree with politicians, we move towards a totalitarian state.’ That's what she said right. The next sentence was: ‘The centre party shall now take the first step.’ My point is that an evaluation of the court administration is not a threat. It's a natural thing to do after 20 years, to see if it's worked after the intention, if they've exercised the mandate in a good way for all the courts. If you're going to follow Schytz's rhetoric, it was totalitarian to evaluate the Police Directorate, Nav and Diffi. This isn't about it at all. I am pleased that we have had a debate on the debate, really, and hope that it will be more positive in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1120	As the rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, it is also sometimes – not always, but sometimes – the task of trying to sum up a debate, but it may be a little difficult now. What we are now experiencing is that we have had a debate that may not be so much about an evaluation of DA, but so much about the reason for the need for an evaluation, namely the debate on court structure. There are strong fronts, and there have also been information that may not have been known to the Stortinget. It is so good that they also come forward. Many parties believe that the evaluation requested by the Central Party challenges the principle of an independent court. The center party thinks it's drawing it too far, and they want to ask for that kind of accusation. I understand – that the fronts can appear like this. It is important to say that it is absolutely essential for people's confidence in the rule of law that the Storting is able to stand together on the principles of an independent legal state. It may be absolutely essential that this is one of the most important areas in which the different parties of the Storing should actually be able to stand together to show people that the main principle in Norway is an independent rule of law, and we never challenge that principle. Why is it so important? Well, it's not understood out there. People don't know this. People don't know the principle of power distribution between magnificence, government and courts. I think all the members of the Judicial Committee have experienced that people who are dissatisfied with the decision of the courts in a case, turn to us and ask whether we can take it up in the Judicial Committee, in the Stortinget. We're still hearing this. In fact, people think that the Stortinget, perhaps also the Judicial Committee, is a kind of Supreme Court that can outsmart what the courts decide. People don't understand this distribution of power. That's why it's essential that we, as the aggregate, are very clear about these principles. And the kind of debate we've had today – from both sides, including my own – I mean to ruin some of the impressions we're going to give. The principles of an independent state of law, we're going to stand together, and we're never going to challenge that principle from this room. I also believe that the SV's proposal in this case can be read as a compromise in this particular case. We are asking for an evaluation of the Court of Justice administration, but the aim is then to evaluate the Court of Justice from the point of view of further developing the independent rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1133	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1150	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1157	In this document, SV has presented seven proposals aimed at ensuring the best interests of children in expulsion cases. What I would like to point out is that the proposal for a representative in many ways presupposes the proposal for changes to the foreign law that the government has been listening to until June of this year, to complement the use of expulsion and entry bans with other forms of reaction when it is given special consideration, such as: the best interests of the child. Ideally, perhaps these matters should be dealt with together. The proposals we are considering today are thus only supported by the SV proposer among the parties represented in the Committee. According to Article 3 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Constitution § 104, the best interests of the child shall be a fundamental consideration of all actions relating to children. But it is not that the best of children can and will not triumph over punishment and sanctions in the event of deliberate violations of Norwegian law by parents. In expulsion cases, in line with today’s legislation, the care of the best interests of children comes into play in assessing the proportionality of the punishment. In Section 70 of the Foreign Act, this is an expressive matter. This relevance is also relevant when determining the duration of the entry ban. Several points to a report by Redd Barna and NOAS on the best of children in expulsion cases. The foreign student has also developed a note on his/her own practice and on how children’s right to be heard is handled in a number of cases. The note reviews decisions and decisions in expulsion cases from July 2018 until June 2019. The main reasons for the expulsion of these cases are illegal suspension and/or avoidance from the implementation of legal decisions. The seriousness of the situation in these cases naturally varies a great deal, based on the duration of illegal suspension or illegal work and the extent of lying and misinformation. The decisions refer to normal loads such as weight, confusion, insecurity and sadness when a child is separated from a parent. This is not sufficient to make the view disproportionate to current practice and case-law. The Supreme Court has stated that it is reasonable that the immediate family is under stress, for example: mental and emotional, by expulsion. These are the reactions we have to expect and accept when we show up. If, in some cases, an expulsion is to be replaced by other sanctions, we, as mentioned earlier, come back to another matter in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1176	As has been pointed out by the rapporteur-in-Office, several of the hearing bodies have referred to a report by Mr Barna and Mr Noas on the best interests of the child in expulsion cases and points in it which form the basis for several of the proposals in the proposal for a representative we are now considering as a result of a previous request decision. The Labour Party believes that the government has spent a long time following this request decision to supplement the use of bans on expulsion and entry by a broader set of reaction forms where specific consideration is given to it, such as taking into account the best interests of children. We welcome the fact that this matter is presented without undue delay to the Stortinget with the thoroughness and the broad consultation the matter deserves. The report by NOAS and Redd Barna shows that there are very rare children who are given the opportunity to meet in person and explain themselves orally to UDI or UNE in matters that affect them. In the past, the government-appointed Graver Committee has highlighted the need to strengthen the legal certainty of UNE's appeal proceedings and recommended changes to the rules that strengthen the right of objection through the use of verbality and personal attendance. The foreign administration depends on trust, honesty of identity, documentation and information, and effective treatment, which is important for applicants, for example. asylum, but also trust in the whole administration of foreigners. It is important to ensure legal certainty in all processes because serious consequences for individuals cannot be achieved if legal certainty is not ensured, nor does it contribute to confidence in the management of foreigners and asylum policies. A number of actors have pointed out that there is a need for a review of the appeal procedure in the field of aliens, as the government itself has admitted. That is why the Labour Party is promoting the following proposals, which we have also promoted a number of times in the past: ‘The Government requests a review of the appeal procedure in the foreign field, with the expectation that this will enhance legal certainty, including the increased use of counter-proposal and orality in the appeal procedure.’ In doing so, I am promoting the proposal of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1192	The representative of Masud Gharahkhani has drawn up the proposal of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1197	The best interests of the child are a guiding principle and a fundamental consideration in all foreign management. That's good. There is also a great deal of agreement about that. The competences of children in foreign affairs have been considerably increased in recent years. It's been focused on over several years. In other words, we have good child-reliance skills in the foreign administration in Norway, and of course the best thing for the child in these cases is to be done. But, as you know, there is nowhere to refer to where it says that decisive emphasis should be placed on the child’s best in foreign affairs. It may seem that SV is, in fact, of the opinion that the legislation is too strict, and attacks the administration because they really believe that too many people are expelled after breaking Norwegian law. I would rather recommend going into the legislation instead of creating doubts about the administration doing what they are supposed to do. What is the background, and which many have pointed out, is a report from the NOAS and the Save Children. It's interesting enough with such reports, but there's reason to mention that in this report only ten cases have been taken out, and as NOAS itself writes in the report, it's a non-representative sample, but a very clever selection. The issues that NOAS is assisting in, may have been picked out because they see that there has been reason to look at them more closely. It's a non-representative sample that's in here. But it's interesting to look at the ten cases as well, because in nine of the ten cases mentioned, the administration has given a milder response than would normally have been done if there had not been a child inside the picture. In the last case, it is not stated specifically that a milder reaction has been made, but the reaction is just as mild as in the other cases. That is, it looks like in all ten cases NOAS and Redd Barna have looked at, and that are not representative of all cases, the best of the child has been taken into account. Then I can't see that there is a great reason to make changes to this that are in line with SV's proposal. The party to the progress also looks forward to the case being brought, the follow-up to the request decision No. 542, but it is assumed that there is no glamour in the legislation there, but rather that it is possible to use the follow-up and the bill that comes there to introduce responses where no reaction is made today because the best of the child is taken into account – that one does not go to expulsion for the best of the child. So there's no response. Such a case will give the opportunity to introduce a reaction in those cases where one cannot exhibit. We look forward to that matter, but we oppose the SV's proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1210	Children are hit hard when parents break rules. Children are particularly hard hit if they are separated from their parents. In spring, the NOAS and Save the Children presented the report on which this proposal is based. At the same time, there was a debate in which all the parties that have now been on the platform here were present, and everyone said that there were important points in this report. It is not a question of whether it should be strict or not, it is a question of basic legal certainty guarantees for children. That's what this is all about. The summary of the report shows that there is a lack of legal assistance for children. It's a legal security problem. There are failed investigations of the child's best interests. Children are rarely heard orally, and the report shows, among others: in 54 expulsion cases involving children, the UN child did not hear orally in any of them. There are standardised reasons for decisions, there are immigration regulatory considerations that trump the best of the child, the real duration of family split is not assessed, and there is an unfair discrimination against children born under UDI’s decision. Several have been involved in UNE as an institution. Yes, it has to be repaired, and there the Graver Committee has said how it should be done. There's really no need for further investigations. There is a need to implement what the Graver Committee pointed to in order to ensure legal certainty in these cases. The government says there is a big difference between cases with lone minors and these cases. No, this is about assessing the best interests of the child and putting the necessary emphasis on all matters. This report shows that there is not enough care in these cases, and it has also been emphasised in a judgment. There is a need for clearer regulation to help ensure that the specific individual assessments to be made in a decision are made. I don't understand why the majority doesn't want it: what's dangerous about making it visible and evaluating how it should be? There is a need for this regulation to come, and it is clear. Expert judgements are also necessary in these cases. There is no argument both by the government and the majority that expert judgement may lead to the child's guilt in the cases where a decision on expulsion is in any case taken. In child law cases, psychological experts are appointed to assess the child’s care situation and needs, including: the relationship with caregivers and the consequences of relationship breaches. In the expulsion cases where mother or father is at risk of being expelled, there are similar dramatic consequences for the child. There is clearly a need for an expert investigation. There is no reason to think that this should be worse for the child than not having an expert assessment of the child's best. Legal aid is fundamental. It is too bad in today's arrangements, and it is also because it is assumed that the person providing legal assistance should also provide the child with the same legal assistance as the adult receives. It is simply not possible to get it in these cases within the narrow time frame provided by the legal aid today. We also propose that matters relating to children be dealt with at the examination meeting with the right to personal presence of both the deportee and the child, and that all aspects relating to the general situation and the care situation of the child be adequately identified and adequately informed. In addition, it is necessary to make changes related to the children born after the expulsion decision is made and to assess their situation. I therefore take up the suggestions from SV, which is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1229	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposals from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1234	Initially, I would like to say that these are demanding issues, where there are many issues that need to be assessed against each other. It will be crucial on the part of the Storting, I believe, to ensure fundamental legal certainty and to ensure that special consideration is given to children in matters of expulsion from Norway. These are matters of vital importance in the lives of individuals. It is therefore absolutely central to the Centre Party that the legislation is based on thorough preparatory work, is well thought out and that the rules should be able to last over time. On the basis of the fact that today’s responses are too limited, the Stortinget government asked in March 2018 to come back with a proposal to complement the use of expulsion and entry bans with a broader set of response forms where specific consideration is given to it. This may be consideration for the best interests of the child. I allow myself to point out that the government has still not come to Stortinget with this yet. I note that there have been proposals for consultation up to this summer, and I therefore assume that the Storting can expect a case on this as soon as possible. That being said, the Central Party believes that the proposal we are considering today prejudges the investigation work, the proposal and the proposition to be presented by the Government to the Stortinget. Based on the work being done, we choose to wait until this proposal is available, before we finally take a position on the individual proposals that will be presented there, and not least on the proposals that I expect SV to present there. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important for the Centre Party to ensure the rights and opportunities of children to be heard, and that the best emphasis is placed on the child as a fundamental consideration in expulsion cases. I therefore welcome the fact that we get a thorough round of these issues when the government's proposal is to be dealt with in the Stortinget, and I assume: as soon as possible. This is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1245	In recent years, more and more attention has been paid to the best interests of children in expulsion cases. It's positive, and it's very important. We've become acquainted with a lot of stories through the media that put a necessary search light on these issues. At the same time, in recent years, Norwegian immigration policy has focused more on the best interests of the child. And the last thing I think is that the Left and Christian People's Party is going to have a lot of credit for. The Granavolden platform underlines that consideration of the child’s best interests should be given to expulsion cases. At the same time, other considerations can be burdensome, and that is why we have this debate, and that is why the discussion is so demanding. We must make sure that we have the legislation required to ensure that the proceedings in these cases are sufficient to clarify the child's situation. On the left, the members of the Committee from the Right and the Christian People's Party, who consider that a more detailed regulation is not appropriate on what considerations may be relevant for the assessment of the best interests of children or the emphasis to be placed on the different aspects. UDI and UNE should be aware of concrete and individual overall assessments today. We also eagerly await the government's efforts to explore alternatives to expulsion when specific circumstances warrant this, such as the child's best interests. As the Left assesses the case, the proposed representative will not change the outcome of expulsion proceedings where the best interests of the child are to be taken into account. That being said, it is important that all matters are dealt with in a thorough manner that is absolutely necessary. We have to look at the children's situation. With the legislation we now have, and not least with the follow-up we have had from the UDI in these matters, we expect the best attention to be given to the child. Of the things we've seen in the media lately, there have sometimes been cruel examples of outcomes that most do not meet the demand for children's best. We don't want such things, and as we see it, the legislation itself was not the problem here. When the Left now does not vote in favour of the proposal, that does not mean that we do not appreciate the rise of the debate. We believe it is important that we take these demanding and important debates at regular intervals. It gives focus to the matter, it contributes to increased consciousness, and it's absolutely necessary. I look forward, as I said, to the government presenting its work to explore alternatives to expulsion when specific circumstances warrant it, such as the consideration of the child's best interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1262	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for their increased focus on such an important issue as the best of the child. The proposers make a number of proposals which they believe should ensure better for children as independent rightholders, among others. by ensuring good assessments of the child’s best in foreign management. Norway has made children rightholders by ratifying the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and we must remember that when we deal with all matters relating to children. The Christian People's Party shares the intentions of the proposers. Today's legislation relating to the violation of the Foreign Affairs Act is very rigid and square, and this means that families have to be split up. As the law is designed today, the outcome of this will have major consequences for those involved. It's unfortunate. This isn't just about us being politicians, and we're like elected representatives here on the Stortinget; it's about us being adults, and about the responsibility that rests on us just because we're adults. It's about doing the right thing, because when we know that it hurts when families split up, we have to do something. It's about the responsibility that rests on us as a nation when we have choices to make children as rightholders. From this point of view, it is appropriate to ensure the rights and the ability of children to be heard and that the best interests of the child are taken into account as a fundamental consideration. It is right that we ensure that a consultation of children takes place within a safe framework and is carried out in a way that will protect the child. From this point of view, it is right to be responsive when the administrative response determined by the non-resident authorities is more perceived as a penalty than as an administrative decision, and it is therefore appropriate that the administration of the non-resident should be given the right tool to take decisions on non-resident reaction forms and bans and split parents and children. I am pleased that the Council of State briefs on the work of following up the request decision of the Christian People's Party, together with SV, promoted to investigate and promote any proposal to amend the Foreign Affairs Act that allows the Foreign Administration to supplement the use of expulsion and entry bans with a broader set of responses when specific circumstances allow it, as well as the child's best interests. This will ensure a fairer and fairer outcome of violations of the Foreign Affairs Act. The Christian People's Party has high expectations for the work of the Council of State on this request decision, and meets the proposition when it comes to the Stortinget. This government promised on the Granavolden platform that we would ensure that children are heard more orally when handling complaints in foreign affairs, and we also welcome the follow-up to this work. In the future, there will also be a number of issues from the government to ensure the child’s best. We are already seeing that UDI has done an important job by making an agreement with the legal faculty at the University of Tromsø to develop a digital legal counsellor on the child's best in matters of protection, strong human interests, family immigration and expulsion. We know that the Council of State will ask the UDI to assess whether there is any reason to clarify in the directorate’s circular that uncertainty related to a later case of residence may be a factor in assessing how the expulsion decision affects the child in each case. The Council of State has notified an investigation into the direct consultation of children in expulsion cases in order to clarify which measures would be appropriate for the best possible arrangements in this area. The Christian People’s Party expects this also to apply to the consultation of children both in connection with the first assessment in the UDI and in connection with the UN complaint procedure. We also know that the Council of State in these days is publishing a R & D mission on the consultation of children in expulsion cases, so that we can take care of the child with increased knowledge and create a safe framework for future changes as well. The Christian People's Party believes that this proposal for a representative is in front of the government's work to make changes and gain us increased knowledge in order to take care of the child's best in the foreign administration in the future. In this article, I clearly show the positions of the Christian People's Party in this matter, and we look forward to the discussion that is coming, and will therefore vote in line with the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1290	In the Granavolden platform, the government states that children in refugees are more vulnerable than adults. The best interests of the child must therefore be taken into account as a fundamental consideration in all foreign matters relating to children. Therefore, the government believes that it would be useful to assess the benefits and disadvantages of hearing children more directly in more expulsion cases than today. I want to start an investigation on this as notified. The Government also considers making proposals to strengthen the right to attend meetings in some categories of child-related expulsion cases. I will come back to this in a more general consultation note on the proceedings in the Foreign Affairs Department that the Ministry of Justice and Defence is working on, and I understand that the committee is waiting impatiently for. As regards the issue of strengthening the right to freedom of justice in the detention cases, I point out that there is a separate hearing on the investigation by the Legal Aid Committee, with a deadline for consultation on 23 November. The Ministry of Justice and Security has asked the Directorate of Foreign Affairs to look into situations with particularly vulnerable children in cases where there is also uncertainty about the possibility of future family reunification with the deported parent in Norway. Following a review of practices both from Norwegian courts and from the European Court of Human Rights, the UDI has reiterated that it is not considered appropriate to highlight uncertainties about future possibilities for family reunification in such cases in particular, as they consider it to have little autonomy and little practical significance in practice. I also refer to my comments on this in my letter to the Committee. I also point out that until 5 June of this year the Ministry had, at the hearing, a proposal on alternatives to expulsion. I notice that the committee is asking for the follow-up of this, and I can inform you that we are now in the final phase with a bill that will be presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1305	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1310	It is positive to hear that the government now has some of these proposals at the hearing and for evaluation, because it is necessary to strengthen both the child’s situation in these matters and the child’s interest, and it is also important to look at the family’s interest in these matters. The right to family is also a human right. What the Council of State now said was this with the length of the family split, that it must be able to assess in these cases, because the system is now, not only the years it is expelled. It will take a very long time to re-apply, and there is no guarantee whatsoever that you will get a family reunion, because there are very high income requirements and other strict criteria for such approval. Will the Council of State look at all sides of these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1317	As I said in my post, we have received feedback that the UDI believes that both the Court and the European Commission for Human Rights attribute this little or no importance, and that is because you invite to a speculation related to the future: 1) if you want to apply, 2) if you want to have the right to come back, and 3) if you want to actually go back. So there's quite a lot of people here being asked to assess in a concrete case. We've said we're going to go into this and evaluate it, but we have to use the resources on things we think we can do something about strengthening children's rights, not where there might be just a blow in the air, and this might be such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1322	It's not irrelevant to the child, because it's the child we're talking about now, whether the child can imagine that they're going to be torn apart from their parents for a very long time, many years. Five to seven years of age is half too many. But if we look at any of the other points that we have proposed, among other things. this with alternative reactions, as the Council of State now says is at the hearing and will be coming soon, is the issue of whether the government now sees that there is a need for changes to this legislation, or whether they will continue to argue that there is no need for regulatory changes, as SV and the Christian People's Party have thought it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1327	The hearing period was 5 June, and for reasons that everyone is sure to understand, there is a lot of work in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, so we are now working on what we can get a proposition. But that means that we believe that there is a basis for making changes. At the same time, I want to be very clear that we have to remember what this is all about. These are matters where parents have committed a serious violation of the rules, and it is unfortunately always such that children are affected by the parent's actions. We also do that when the Nordics are put in prison and deprived of the right to be with their children every day. But yes, we think that's the basis for making changes, and we're going to get that proposition as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1334	I have to say that I look forward to a matter of this, but also that changes are being made that actually take care of the child's best. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that children are hit very hard when their parents do something they should not, but there is, after all, a big difference between being able to visit a parent who is in prison and not being able to have contact with a parent who is abroad. Yes, even it has been argued by the foreign agencies that you can keep in touch with babies on Skype. There is a real need for changes that allow you to have alternative responses, such as: fines, such as: Prison, which means that the break between children and parents does not become viable in a way, because that is what the Council of State is now drawing up – that they may not even come back. Yes, I think most parents will be with their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1341	Just three things – not to be difficult. It's just the word "faith" that's a little bit difficult here. You're assuming that everyone thinks that you're doing it yourself, and that's not always the situation. There are issues where children do not have contact with their parents either, for different reasons. Every family and every child has it different. I think we have to base that on. So I don't think for children who feel that parents are imprisoned, it's a matter of time to travel and visit prison because it can be very, very difficult. But it's not the debate here. We have to respond to the consultation proposals we have had and come to the Stortinget. Then we will have to take the debate on the concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1350	If we are to take one of these proposals quite concretely, such as that the Storting had to force the government to agree to write down what was the child's best judgment in the long-term child case, we are now asking that it be done the same way in these cases, that is, that we have to document how the assessments have been made and that it should be stated in the decision so that it can be verified. What's the problem with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1355	The problem is that both corruption and government are actively dealing with individual cases, and that is not necessary. We do not need to detail here which specific assessment themes to consider. We must have confidence that this is done, and that not least there is an overall assessment of the fact that each case has to be assessed individually. So things will have similarities and inequalities. But that's the background. It's about trusting that our administration makes decisions based on the laws and regulations we've adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1361	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1368	The report on which this proposal for a representative is based is a very detailed report. I am quite surprised at the co-representatives who were present at the time of this report, who clearly signaled that there was a need here to review these matters and secure the points that this report documents, and that it was to be done. So the government says they have something going on. I hope that will be a step forward, but I'm unfortunately a little in doubt. With the last thing the council replied to me, I'm very worried, because it hasn't been possible to document how the best of children has been taken care of in the cases of the lonely children. That was not possible, because it was not in the decision. It was a standardised decision. We see the same thing in these cases. What we are asking for is to show in the decision how those assessments have been made. It is possible that the Council of State and the majority believe it is a type of bureaucracy, but on the SV side it is about caring for what everyone is going on in the pulpit and saying they are in favour, namely that the best interests of the child should be taken care of and that it should be assessed. That is what this proposal is about, and I am very surprised that we need to discuss it, when it is documented so thoroughly that in many cases it is not done. As I said, it's completely impossible to control when there's no place where it's done, or what you've been focusing on. How, then, should we complain about these matters? What are you going to complain about? The answer is that there has been an overall assessment, but it is extremely important because the development of regulatory policies and practices is developed according to practice. When we do not know what practice is, it is impossible to verify that this practice is also in line with what the political majority has meant by these provisions. I believe that the Storting should be concerned. This is an area of great political debate and major political disagreement. I admit it. It is there, but that one should be able to verify that the best of the child has actually been assessed, how it has been done, and how the conclusions are, is absolutely necessary. We'll get back to that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1379	The debate on substance is closed. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1396	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1405	In the proposal for a representative, the proposers are asking for the establishment of a State limited liability company following the New Veier AS model for railway planning and construction. The majority of the Committee points to the fact that the Stortinget has already been working on the report. St. 17 for 2019-2020, Some cases concerning rail, the government assessed the governance structure between the Railway Directorate, Bane NOR and the Ministry of Transport. This work should also assess whether the New Weger model can be used in the development of railway projects. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Left argue that any creation of the company New Baner AS must be seen in the context of the broad review and propose that the proposal for a representative should not be adopted. However, we agree with the rapporteurs that the experience with New Veger AS has been good and that these experiences should be largely transferable to the railway sector. This concerns early involvement of entrepreneurs and greater ability to think corridors and thereby optimise costs. I would also like to point to predictable funding and increased space for action through portfolio management and development as important prerequisites for the success of New Weighing. It should be possible to continue this both in Bane NOR and in the State Road Service. It requires, however, that the role of the Storting in transport policy be more strategically and less detailed. This must then be reflected in future national transport plans. NTP 2022-2033 will take a first step in this direction, and we will see how it is received. There are also other issues that need to be assessed in the draft representative. First of all, there is a need to give Bane NOR better framework conditions, both administratively and financially. Secondly, one has to assess the extent to which Path NOR will operate portfolio management. Thirdly, it has to be assessed whether New Railways will be able to achieve the same level of freedom against Bane NOR that New Roads have brought against the State Road Service, given the strict technical requirements within which the railway sector works. The aim of the New Jobs must be to provide added value in terms of innovation and development. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Left indicate in the vote that it takes too much time and is excessive overshooting in railway development projects. Exceedances of such costs primarily reduce the funds that could have been used on more railways. Furthermore, it is pointed out that competition has been very good for society and that the competitive outsourcing of the routes exposed to competition will save 12 billion. kr over a 10-year period. There are ways of building even more railways and maintaining existing infrastructure. As indicated in the submission, the Progress Party supports a proposal that New Veger should also be responsible for expanding the lines of the rail network in competition with Bane NOR. The right and left cannot support this today. However, it must be possible to reply within the framework of the investigation already under way by the Ministry and in the examination of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1424	I just want to first say that the Workers' Party does not see it as a very required task to set up another company in the railway sector. In recent times, we've got new units in the railway sector and now have so many companies and directors that it has to be said that it's approaching absurdity. We have a railway directorate, we have Bane NOR, we have Norwegian trains, we have Mantena, we have Entur, we have Track drive, and we have Bane service. Then we have the companies running trains: Vy, Go-Ahead and SJ. And if this government gets what it wants, there'll be even more companies. This is simply not the right thing to do. We should rather collect more within the railway than split up into all of these companies. One company owns trains, several companies run trains. Some sell tickets, some repair trains, some maintainer, some build new ones. This is simply not a sensible way to organise the railway. In this situation, therefore, the Progress Party proposes to set up another company – probably with many directors with million wages also in a possible New Jobs. No, that's not the way to go. The Workers' Party will not set up enough companies and have even more highly paid railway directors. But what we're about to do is to see if we can change the framework conditions for Bane NOR today, not yet a new company, but change the framework conditions for today's Bane NOR, so that we can get a more efficient railway and build more efficient and faster. In this regard, I would like to refer to a debate by the Director of Bane NOR, Gorm Frimannslund, in the evening post in May. There he writes: ‘Give us plenty of framework conditions and space for action such as New Roads.’ That's what Bane NOR Director asks. I'll quote another sentence from the post that Frimannslund had: ‘The model of ownership management by the Ministry of Transport and Contract Management of the Railway Directorate is challenging’.» When the director of a state company says it's challenging, that means that the way we have it today is not very good. So the answer is not to set up enough companies, but the Workers' Party is involved in seeing new ways to organise the railway sector – several powers to Bane NOR. We agreed with the government parties in the spring on a proposal to investigate it. That's why we're now waiting for that investigation. [[The President clubs.]] And when the president clubs, I use the opportunity to bring up proposal no. 1 in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1451	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1456	When the Progress Party got the Right, Left and Christian People's Party to establish New Roads, the resistance from the left was very great. Several of the so-called red-green parts expressed enormous scepticism. But as New Roads have built more and more roads and opened miles by mile with a safe, safe four-field highway, the criticism has been replaced with a rosy mention. Now negativity and scepticism are gone, and there is a positive attitude and enthusiasm towards New Roads among the people most – in business, among politicians and not least among rapporteurs all around Norway. The reason we had to establish New Veier was that we wanted more tax money. We saw that there were both large cost exceedances and delays on existing road projects that were planned. It just couldn't go on like that, and as responsible politicians, we had to clean up. The result was New Roads, and it has been a huge success. We're about to save the taxpayers for 30 billion dollars. kr, and we bring with us increased social benefits due to reduced travel time, fewer accidents, larger housing and labour market regions etc., etc., we approach a total of 60 billion. kr. There is no doubt that Nye Veier is a great success. For the railway, the situation is unfortunately not as positive. There are exceedances and delays even greater than we looked at road construction before we established New Roads. On projects for projects only the billions will run out. The worst example is the Folloban, where the cost of saving 11 minutes until Oslo begins to approach 40 billion. kr. For years we've been talking about New Baner. In fact, the representative Nävra has asked several times when New Baner is coming. Of course, the public sector has understood that they will get much more and better railways significantly faster and significantly cheaper by establishing new ones. Time is overdue to copy the success of New Roads and establish New Railways. We don't have time, we know what's needed. In order to succeed, it is not necessary to wait for new investigations, reports or legal considerations, as unfortunately the majority of population seems to want to. Nor do we have to set up new state companies with overpaid managers, as the Workers' Party fears. It is possible that Mr Myrli has not read our proposal, because that is not what is there. We want to add new lanes within New Roads. We don't have to reinvent the wheel. We already have New Roads. The easiest and best thing is to give New Veier responsibility for railway projects. I want to allow myself to suggest to the Minister for Transport that he can start with a few projects, such as the joint project E16 Arna–Voss. It may be awarded to New Roads. And to save the Minister for Time, Investigations, and any speculations about name and name, I want to suggest a enticing logical name: it's going to be something like New Tracks paving the way, but it could be just called New Paths Road, actually. I think that'll be a winner's cause. I am convinced that we will get more railways at a lower price, so it would be nice if the bulk of the population would be on the proposals of the Progress Party today. In doing so, I am promoting our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1471	The representative Tor André Johnsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1476	One thing is for the representative Johnsen to have: he has faith in New Vejer. At least there's no doubt about it. I think I'm looking at it a little bit differently, because I see that there are major challenges to the development of the railways in Norway. Large sums are used, more than ever. At the same time, the demand for maintenance is increasing and necessary investments outside the outer intercity areas are almost absent. The government's proposal for a 2021 government budget proposes the use of 32.1 billion. kr on the railway. That's 20 pst. higher than in 2020. The challenges and exceedances of costs that now emerged are the result of a lack of governance and unclear responsibilities. The centre party has been critical of the fragmentation of the rail sector that has entered the wake of the rail reform. Several state-owned companies or coordination with New Veger is therefore not the solution. This is a clearer political direction and a clearer division of responsibilities. That's what's going to get the railway on the right track. There is a need to do anything but establish more companies. There is a need to carry out a thorough and systematic review of management and responsibilities between the actors in the railway sector. In recent years, a number of companies have been established, as mentioned by the representative Myrli. It's Bane NOR, it's Norwegian train, it's Mantena, Entur and I could ram even more. They are responsible for each of their small segments in this sector – each of their small segments. Some people own the trains, some sell the tickets, some have to maintain them, some have to build them. In addition, we have a directorate, and we have the department at the top. We should rather assemble the railway to a greater extent, rather than split up further. Path NOR is likely to be subject to changes and major powers as part of this governance structure. It's not the Center Party. We also asked the sector to assess this, and we are promoting it as a separate proposal today. It is too easy to set up a new company with different framework conditions instead of addressing the real problems that lie in Bane NOR and the way the railway sector is organised today. What surprises me most, however, is that the Progress Party, which was responsible for the railway sector for nearly seven years, until January 2020, did not meet the challenges when they were in charge. Instead, they are now going after new organisational proposals which seem to solve the problems. It's really time for thought. We need to see this major railway sector with the efforts, and we want to promote our proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1495	The representative Bengt Fasterale has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1500	It was nice that the representative Johnsen referred to SV, he actually does what is right as it is, but not always in such gentle order as right now – this was very pleasant. That's quite right: I actually think that the Progress Party has kind of pulled out an old SV proposal from the drawer, because we had this on our table a few years ago – «New Baner AS». We wanted a new company to build high-speed rail in Norway. To the representative Johnsen: then it's happened a lot after that, there's a lot of water in Glomma and elsewhere – then we're talking about this is the wrong time to come up with the proposal. That's what the representatives Myrli and Fasteraune said, we've got a bunch of state companies, and we can't have another one. I won't argue against it, it's been done here from the pulpit earlier. It might be a good idea to think that when New Vejer AS has been mastered, as they have been by many – among others. by the representative Johnsen, who wants 110 km/h and four fields – I get it. Yes, on their platform and with their mandate, they're doing a great job, there's no doubt about it. But I would like to point out that there are some aspects of this that are not so simple, among other things. the degradation and greenhouse gas emissions are considered to be a bit maligned. In many cases, local democracy suffers. Very often, to do so quickly, there are some rapporteurs in a college who agree on something, and then it comes almost as a final proposal to the local authorities. It's not good, a lot of people react to it. And that's often the way it's become a factor -- I'm not going to say some kind of state in the state, because it sounds ugly, but it's become a strong factor with New Roads. They can quickly go to another place if they do not get their own way, and then the College of rapporteurs often has to stay. What's probably the problem here is that we're struggling with central government in the railway sector. Others have also come up with this. There we have to grab some grip. We see that in terms of both financial management and some government sparks. Course NOR does not have portfolio management – it has New Roads, as the representatives know. Nor do they have an economic buffer that can withstand exceedances, or any oscillation or movement of funds. That's why it's very important to point out that it's perhaps one of the most important points for Bane NOR, that they have a little bit more economic freedom of action. That is why SV is behind the proposal to give Bane NOR that very possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1513	New Baner Road – was that the new name? I think we'll think about it a little bit. That is why, in June, the Left took part in the proposal to investigate this, because the idea can be good, but we do not know that until we have actually investigated it. We have to evaluate this. It's not quite like building a road and a track. I also believe that much more should be invested in an efficient organisational structure within the railway. We're about to implement it. Yes, there have been many companies, but you world, it's important that they each have their own responsibilities. Then I believe that better use of both competences and resources can also be made. What's perhaps most challenging when you point to the Director of Bane NOR's statements, is that between the Directorate of Railways and Bane NOR maybe it's not the perfect interaction to exploit both competence and resources. I think we're going to ask the Ministry of Transport to investigate that cooperation and not least how we're going to organise development. Because that's something that's done right on the railway. The number of passengers has increased by 20 pst. since 2013. We're 80 million passengers now, and it's not unrealistic to have a target of 100 million within a few years. For it really is, this government is really betting on the railways. The NTP adopted three years ago gives a clear indication of this. Then we also admit that there has been an over-consumption, or a crack we can call it, in the budgets, especially on some sections where one has been surprised about, for example. basic conditions which have made it much more expensive. But I have good faith that we're on our way to get even more rail. We're about to deliver an NTP for the next twelve-year period – we don't have to talk the railroad down now, we have to talk it up, so that more resources go for that purpose, because that's perhaps the most environmentally friendly thing we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1523	This proposal for a representative, which represents the possibility of looking at the New Vegar model towards the railway sector, is exciting, and we are doing a lot of the work. I very much share the understanding that New Roads is a success. It has saved costs of 25 billion. kr, it's increased by 35 billion. kr. So it's given our community 60 billion. kr. And it's created a very positive dynamics in the road sector. Then we have the railway sector, where we now have a huge investment. We only increase the budget from 2020 to 2021 by 6 billion. kr. So in ten years, we have a lot more than triple investment on the railways in our country. As Gunnes said, only in the last seven years have we increased the passenger base on the rail by 20 pst. That's very good. We've had a rail reform that has given us a very positive competitive outlook. But we see that when it comes to reaching the targets, in some areas, we don't get far enough. It particularly applies to the construction of railway infrastructure. We have experienced cost increases, we have experienced delays, and we have experienced increased budgetary needs. Therefore, I have told Stortinget – we have followed up the decision made by Stortinget in ours – that we are looking at the relevant aspects of the railway reform. We consider actions to realise the intention of the railway reform, and we are just evaluating the New Vegar model into that context. The new Vegar model, what is it? Well, it's a new organisational structure based on state competition. But it's also portfolio management, it's operational freedom for the company. It is based on socio-economic profitability, it is a clear incentive to reduce costs, and there are robust and binding budgetary frameworks. But it's not either, or it's a lot of elements, and we're looking at it. For us we have discovered that there are systems and procedures between the Railway Directorate and Bane NOR which are not in line with the intentions of the railway reform. For this reason, we are now looking at measures to provide clearer responsibilities, greater efficiency and better budgetary and financial management. We're looking at several elements here, we're going through the entire contract environment, and we're looking at the possibility of following up in line with what we think is within the New Vegar model.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1534	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1539	Thank you for a very good contribution from the Minister for Transport. In the spring, the majority in Stortinget came to the conclusion that the government would assess the governance structure between the Directorate of Railways, Bane NOR and the Ministry of Transport. In the budget proposal, the Minister for Transport explains its follow-up. Now it has been a long time since the state budget was written, so I want to ask the Minister of Transport about the status of that work. How far has the ministry come in that work? And is it such that the Bane NOR Director, Gorm Frimannslund, addressed in ours – his proposal on how the railway sector should be organised, or more specifically what framework conditions Bane NOR should have – is involved in the assessment made by the Minister for Transport and the Department? So the question is, how far has this work now come?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1546	We're working too hard on this. Our wish is to give Bane NOR more clear responsibilities, more space for action – in line with the New Vegar model's thinking. But we haven't come this far in assessing whether we need a company of our own, but at least we want to give Avinor greater freedom of action. As I also said, we have also discovered that the dialogue between the Directorate of Railways and Bane NOR has not been optimal. It is quite clear that the dynamics that we wanted between the Directorate of Railways and Bane NOR have not been there. Instead, one has actually passed on the old regime a little bit. It's time to look at Bane NOR for a bigger action room. Then we have to make sure that Bane NOR has both the competence, the responsibilities and the systems in order to maintain the larger space of action we want to give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1553	We would like to look at the powers of Avinor too, but it is Bane NOR that we can focus on today – there are many "nors" afterwards! The Director of Bane NOR pointed out that the model currently in existence, with ownership management by the Ministry of Transport and Contract Management of the Directorate of Railways, is challenging. It is clear that when a director of a state company says it is challenging, it means that this is problematic – I think we have to interpret it that way. Frimannslund in Bane Nor also said that the management of the railway directorate through detailed agreements and a challenging liquidity situation made it more detailed management, not less, that was the intention. Does the Minister for Transport share that assessment, that there has been more detailed management and not less?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1562	I totally agree with the representative Myrli that now we're going to talk about Bane NOR and not about Avinor. I'm probably not sure if there's been any more detail management, but at least it's not been the dynamics we wanted. In the past, this was in one system, and then an order was given, and we have discovered that there are a lot of agreements between the Directorate of Railways and Bane NOR. The idea was to get the dynamics that they were going to challenge each other. We haven't seen that. I think we can say that the Directorate of Railways has given their orders to Bane NOR, Bane NOR has said yes, we're going to follow it up. Then maybe one, two, or three years have passed, and they've seen that we can't do this, and then they report that this doesn't happen to us, instead of one getting the real dynamics in the process when the agreements are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1569	That's funny – that's about. 10 years ago that both the President, the Council of State and the undersigned debated companies in both the road and rail sectors in the Transport Committee in this Chamber. Then I think it's important what the council says, and it's very nice that he says that this has been a success. I didn't feel that he was as clear ten years ago, but that's very good. A short time ago, the state councils dropped expectations to the national transport plan, and we see that in the state budget presented by the government now, the vast majority of the increase in rail is unfortunately cost cuts or cost increases in projects. That's why it's really time to do something. That is why I want to challenge the Council of State that he must at least work quickly, because we believe that we do not need more time to assess. Now we actually need to realize and implement, so that you can increase the appropriations and build more roads and railways for the money we're going to spend on transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1576	I'm not going to drop expectations, I'm going to put forward an ambitious national transport plan. But it must also be a plan we can believe in, and with the cost predictions we have had over the last few years on the railways, the national transport plan in Stortinget is not going to be credible about what we're doing. So there are a lot of reasons for that, and they have, as far as we're concerned in this debate, but it's important that we do what we can to get the most back from the community's resources. And as I said, in ten years' time, we have more than triple investment on the railways, and I'm actually going to say that we've gone from taking care of the railways in Norway to actually developing it. And I mean that the New Vegar model and the thoughts from there we're going to take with us. So we also know that the railway isn't exactly equal to them. It's a more integrated system, it's not as easy to think about the flexibility we're going to have, but we're going in now and we're going to look everything up, and we're going to follow the decision of the Storting in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1581	The President may be tempted to take part in the debate, but shall leave it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1586	I am very happy, because I feel that the Minister and we in the Progress Party have the same goal. Unfortunately, I feel that the Minister is going a little further to the goal than the Progress Party is doing, but that is the Minister’s choice – so far at least. I'm really wondering why he's going to figure out and postpone something that everyone wants, which everyone knows will be a success. Does the Minister see the advantage of giving some pilot projects, for example: the Arna–Voss joint project, where rail and road are being built simultaneously, to New Roads, so that we can test it out, try it out and get good examples that there is a lot of money to save and get more rail for tax money?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1591	We are now working too hard to make changes and follow up the intentions of the railway reform. I think that on the competition we have been well closed, but when it comes to the construction of infrastructure, we have not been closed well enough. That's what we have to take over. As I said, the railway is an integrated system. The different projects and the existing infrastructure there depend heavily on each other. The development of signalling system, train equipment and timetable must be linked. I think we're just taking the time to figure this out, because if there's something Norwegian railway that doesn't need, then it's that we're doing new tests that we don't have enough control over. But I'm optimistic. I'm working too hard on this, and I want to come back. I also believe that in line with those decisions and thoughts, we need to go back to Stortinget to see, among other things. under certain budgetary decisions and other presidencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1599	A lot of money is spent on the railroad, and that's good. Most people in this room agree. There are good ambitions, and there is no doubt that the capacity of the railway, i.e. increased passenger growth, has been very positive. Still, it's been spent 3.3 billion. kr in consultants in the context of the rail reform, mainly in support of strategy processes – most of it in fact after 2016. The maintenance run only increases – incredible enough with a budget of 32.1 billion. kr, as I mentioned instead. Worse still, the priority of the funds goes to the Eastern region and largely there to both investment and operations, and the rest of the rail network in Norway is strongly downgraded. Who is making these priorities, and on what basis? And another question, when can we get two-timer flights on the Dovrebanen and the Tronderbanen? That was an extra question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1608	I fully share with the representative Fasterøne his disdain by totimar frequency also in the region of Trundelagers, and we are working too hard on it. We have also seen significant funds to reach it in the budget for 2021. Yes, this is one of the challenges we have. We need to build infrastructure, and we have had a strong increase in the passenger base, which increases maintenance needs. I therefore believe that the national transport plan, which we are going to deal with here in the spring house, must say something very clearly about this. I think, to the extent that both the road and the track, doing something about the maintenance run is very important. We build a lot of new infrastructure, but the old infrastructure becomes a paradox to the new one. And we know that the socio-economic analyses are very clear that the fact that re-engagement on the railways is one of the most profitable things we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1615	Now I was asking the Council of State about the same thing – when are we going to get two trains an hour to Kongsberg – but I am not going to ask that. On the other hand, I'm going to grab hold of what the council says about the dynamics, which he's asking for. That dynamic is probably almost another word for competition, and we've seen the competition that has developed in a way between two state companies, the State Road Administration and the New Veger AS. It's not just of the good. Something has happened on the way there too, literally. There have been quite a lot of wing clippings by the trade union staff in the Statens vägvesen. My point with this is to say that there are two important success factors in New Weier AS, as explained. It's that entrepreneurs are early inside, and that they have portfolio management, that is, more freedom of use of funds. My question to the Council of State is whether these two success factors could rather have been incorporated into the system that now exists – giving them more freedom, which perhaps the State Road Service would have had in advance – than going for the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1622	I want to answer yes, that's what we're working on right now, just to look at how we can get that dynamics into the system we have today, as I think Bane NOR must have greater freedom of action, see his portfolio to an even greater extent than what is possible for them today. But since the representative also mentions the roadside and the competition we see there, I have used to compare the state roadway services and New Roads with something of the same thing that happened to NRK when TV 2 came. I mean that TV 2 was very positive for NRK too. I see a bit of the same thing, because I feel that the state road service today is very offensive and positive to the competition that lies there. When they recorded NTP a few weeks ago, I saw that the state road system was very offensive and positive. That's also something we have to consider. Did we have an even more offensive railway development with, for example, two environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1627	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1634	We have repeatedly been accused of operating and establishing new companies in the debate. That the representative Myrli says it after obviously not having read the proposal, I can understand, but the central party repeats it after hopefully both having read the proposal and having heard my post instead, surprises me. We're not going to set up new state companies with many directors with million wages. It is clear from the proposal that we want it to be covered by New Roads. So then I hope the possible misunderstanding is cleared out of the world. Then comes Fasteraune, the representative of the Center Party, with some kind of interesting claims. First, he points out the fact that we have big problems and spend huge sums on the railway today. That's absolutely right, that's exactly why the Progress Party wants to tackle it and do something about it, not just talk about it. But that the cost increases are due to the railway reform is a special reasoning, I think it's completely illogical, because it's not in the construction projects it's been the biggest reform, it's in tenders and establishing new companies, like Entur, Mantena and other things. It's not necessarily on the construction side. There is a need for other instruments than new companies, said Fasteraune. Yes, I fully agree, that's exactly why we're so busy giving New Roads some track projects that they can get tested out. It's incredibly important, it's very important. With regard to the post in the Evening Post to which Sverre Myrli refers, the interview with Bane NOR Director, it was actually a very good post and a good interview. I think most of the parties in this room fully agreed, at least we in the Progress Party agree with the Workers' Party's considerations around that post. But Sverre Myrli forgets one thing – it’s important that a person needs new framework conditions, like the portfolio management that New Roader has, but he forgets one important thing, and it’s perhaps an ideological problem that the Workers’ Party doesn’t always understand – and that’s the point of competition. It is also a crucial success factor. As the minister himself said instead, he sees that the establishment of New Veiger has led to the Vegvesen being strengthened. The road service has not yet gained any new framework conditions, but they have really intensified due to the competition from New Roads. It's a little bit of a shame that ideological cowards may be standing in the way of the Workers' Party contributing to important reforms. Fortunately, we know that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right are concerned with the element of competition, so I think, when that time finally comes, we're going to get a good consensus in the Storting to establish New Baner/New Veier. Then I have to comment on the last speeches from the Central Party, because he owed to the Advance Party for not having cleaned up this before, that it is like we who are responsible for the reform. But you can't start cleaning up the middle of a reform until you know the consequences of the reform. Now we see the results, and we're not satisfied with the results. The minister also said instead that parts of the railway reform have worked well, but everything has not worked so well. What remains is to have cost control on the railway projects. We do not have that today, and as responsible politicians, we must clean it up, and that is what the Progress Party wants to propose with our proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1651	I could not cheer myself up after listening to the representatives of Myrli and Fasterøne. The center party and the labor party are just like they were the eight years they put in government, there's no world thing happening when it's actually doing something. I believe that New Weger is proof that there has actually been a huge amount of happening in the transport sector. These were the things the red-green parties were not interested in being on at all. So they've fought back, and one of the representatives of the Center Party has even said that this meant taking back decades of road development in time. The reality and the results are that New Roads are a huge success. Then we have to do some of the same success on the railway that we did on the road, that's what's in the proposal here now. So it's like the red-greens don't want to put out competition – they won't do anything. What is actually the reality is that money has been released that can now be used to expand more railways in the future. That's what this is about, and that's what the Progress Party is concerned about. We are concerned about how best to provide even better services to citizens, even better train services, even better on the road. I am convinced and believe in contrast to those who believe that we should just let Bane NOR do this, that it is smart that Bane NOR is still going to deliver parts of the expansion, and that we will get a New Course in New Roads, which can also do the same. That's when you get the effect, and that's when you see that you think differently. That's when you challenge the truth and make sure you deliver better services to the inhabitants by building up the network and the infrastructure, and you can spend even more of the money that under the red-green government really didn't go to anything – because you didn't want to see solutions, see things and do things in new ways. It's funny when you take this with director's wages: it's not a proposal for a new company, it's a proposal to have it into one company that we already have. It was just to go back and see in the state budget, there it says what the directors have in wages now, and what some of the directors had in wages under the red-green with the Center Party in the Ministry of Transportation. I think it's smart to think new, it's smart to look ahead, it's smart to do things in new ways to bring down costs and take positive action, which gives better rail in the future by building up more. It's fun when you're busy with costs, cracks, etc.; then I just remember when you put in Oslo–Ski. It did the red-green ones in a national transport plan, there weren't many billions lying there, and the result we now know. It is precisely the result that the Progress Party is concerned that we are thinking new, that we are doing things in a new way and that we are making sure that the grips that we have taken on the road are also taken by rail – precisely to save costs and to build more infrastructure for money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1664	So after seven years with the Minister of the Progress Party, both the Minister of Transport and the head of Bane NOR have to hand their hand and apologize. All priorities now focus on correcting errors from previous years. In practice, this means that all funds are now being used in the Central East region. The rest of the railway intended to bind the country together, bleed, and the maintenance seat run only increases. Other transport sectors have reduced their appropriations, and we big-time politicians are in a very difficult situation before dealing with NTP. That's the facts. We're not just looking at expansion. Six different railway companies have taken over what was previously the NSB, and the number of directors has increased from 11 to 49, no matter how you turn it around. The top six heads have 3.2 million. kr in the average salary. On some flights between Oslo and Lillehammer, a train ticket now costs almost 700 kroner. SJ and everyone else are frustrated. They are not allowed to exploit their potential because maintenance delays are growing only. Whom does the government and the Progress Party think this will pay off for? I thought the state and the government would make it pay off for those who wanted to drive trains. The alleged savings in the country are paid by the customer, and the money is not used for operation and maintenance. They go directly into the drain of overcosts. The urban growth agreements subsidise collective prices. In the districts, they get even more expensive. Now, Vy runs express buses and competes with the railway and other express buses to survive. In addition, the Stortinget now deals with a proposal on railway package IV, where the government believes it is unproblematic to leave important parts of rail management to the EU. It is pointed out by both the Workers' Party and the SV that two of Bane NOR's main challenges are little freedom in prioritising funds and that they have little economic buffer to capture unexpected expenditure, exceedances and deferrals. I'm sure the solution is not to give Bane NOR a buffer in their financial allocations to give more flexibility and predictability. The construction of the Follo tunnel has shown that there have been enough buffers. There has been a lack of control. What has happened in the railway sector is so serious that I want to use the military concept of lack of command and control. Who sat with the stop-button, and who has control of the point of no return?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1679	I can assure Tor André Johnsen that we are reading both proposals and committee settings. We're actually working with them for quite a long time -- for too long someone might say. We have recorded that the Progress Party has changed the wording of what was the original proposal. The Progress Party originally made a proposal to set up a State limited liability company according to the New Veier model, i.e. a separate limited liability company. The proposal of the Progress Party has now been amended to entrust New Roads with the task of building the railway. That is a joyful change – it is good that the Progress Party has changed its proposal. But in any case, there will be a new player in the railway sector if New Weger is also to plan and build railway projects. The directors of Nye Veger are not underpaid either. From the Labour Party we believe that we are now waiting for this. We're more interested in passing on powers to Bane NOR. As the Minister of Transport has confirmed up to several times, he and the Department are now doing that work. I am not very surprised if the director of Bane NOR gets more of the wishes he has outlined in the public, fulfilled by that work. I would like to end by saying that I fully agree with Jon Gunnes – we are going to talk about the railway. There is a lot of good going on, and a lot of money is spent, but that's why we also have to be concerned that we spend the money properly. The more money is spent in a sector, the more important it is that we have money management. We need to plan better, and we need to implement the development projects on the railways better than the situation today. I have several times used the example of what happened when we received 10-minute departures between Asker and Lillestrøm. It was a success — such a great success that station areas and platforms are now completely crowded with people. It's a little smaller in these days, but in a normal situation, it's like this. If we build more modern double-track railway, buy more trains and set up more departures, more people will also take the railway. Several are going to run trains. Think of everything we have to do! We must complete the double tracks on the Dovrebanen, the Eastfold Railway and the Westfold Railway. We need to get started on the Ringerix track. We're going to electrify the Trunder Railway and the Meråker Railway. We have to build a new railway between Arna and Voss. Investment is needed on Ofotbanen and Nordlandsbanen. Think of what we can do on Kongswingerbanen and Gjøvikbanen! Gradually, a new Oslo tunnel and interconnection of the Sørlandsbanen and Vestfoldbanen are needed. There are so many important and interesting railway projects in the future, and then we have to make sure that we also spend the money properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1696	It's always the way that when we discuss the railways, we get into railway reform. We get into the number of companies, and we get into the number of directors. What is a fact is that when we implement the railway reform, it has been shown that we have managed to do things differently, in new ways – think new. The use of the tender regime has meant that we actually save money on the operation, 1.2 billion. kr per year or 12 br. kr during the tendering period for the three tenders carried out. There's money that we can actually use to develop Norwegian railways. This is not something that the Labour Party and the Center Party were able to come on when they were put on by majority rule. This is something that this government, in cooperation with the Advance Party of former governments, has got in place – the four parties that have been working together for seven years now. I'm actually quite proud of that because it works. It shows that we put the customer in the focus, and we make sure that we also spend the public money rationally. The representative Sverre Myrli is concerned that we should spend the money properly. Yes, it was certainly time for the Workers' Party to come up with it. Why haven't we thought differently in the railway sector in the past, with the very organisation we now have, where we have Bane NOR responsible for the development of the infrastructure? I'm glad that both the Workers' Party, and I also think the Center Party, sees that it has a value to have a company that is responsible for expanding the infrastructure in the Norwegian railway. Then we also need to develop that company in a good way. That's exactly why we've asked for that investigation – and we've got a majority for it, fortunately – to see if we can improve that dynamism between the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of Railways and Bane NOR. In that I will not exclude any solutions. We can't start such a process by excluding any solutions. That's why I think we need to have an opening to maybe evaluate the solution proposed by the Progress Party. Maybe we're going to evaluate New Banners, but maybe the solution is also that we're going to further develop Path NOR. There may be a combination of several solutions in this. The main thing is that we are jointly able to ensure that we develop the railway reform we have started, in such a way that we actually get the most back for each of the heads we use in this sector. It is a fact that we have had large exceedances on some railway projects. This is why it is imperative that we now be able to do these necessary steps — make sure that we think again, make sure that things are done in new ways and that we develop a reform that is already in progress in such a way as to deliver the best possible results in the years to come. I just have to repeat that I'm proud that we've come to where we are today, but we're not done. That is why we need to ensure that we have a continuous development process also in the field of railway reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1707	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1713	That's a lot strange one should hear, and the last one was very necessary. The place blames the Workers' Party for the failure of today's railway organisation. If anyone is in doubt, the Labour Party and I are strongly opposed to the organisation we have of the railway sector. The amalgamation of companies and directors that we have now received must take responsibility for the location and the bulk of the population. It's not the Labour Party model. We voted against the so-called rail reform in 2015, we would have organised this in a completely different way. The solution is obviously not even more companies, not even more units, not even more directors. So it's the place that has to take responsibility for the problems of governance that are currently in the railway sector – with a department, a directorate and a course NOR, with unclear management conditions and a result that has led to more detailed management than before. At least the working party shall not be responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1718	I thought I would save time for the hall, so I waited for the longest time to take the word. But the starting point for what we acquired in 2013 was not quite good, to say it mildly. It's a little strange that you should hear this debate here today, after you've increased the budgets by 88 pst. In seven years' time, you have to complain that we are not getting enough work done. Yeah, why don't we get enough done? Yes, because the projects have become more expensive. And why have they become more expensive? Yes, we have chosen on the top shelf. We're still picking projects on the top shelf. There is also an advantage that New Wegener has; they have the option not necessarily to choose on the top shelf, but on the right shelf! We can complain to others – why has it become so expensive, yes, why is it not stopped, ask Fasterale. Why isn't it stopped? Yes, when has the Stortinget stopped a project due to price excesses? That's how you have to do it in the municipalities, to stop projects because it's become too expensive, not in the Stortinget, really. But it's a little bit like it was said here, that the starting point for this case was that you were going to form New Banner AS. That is what the draft document is. So you don't have to criticize it when you say that you want to change that proposal, that you now add it to New Roads. It's kind of another thing. What we're dealing with here, and we've said that, is one thing that we want to see in a larger context, just to figure out whether we can achieve the same thing with the organization we have, or whether we're going to have a competitive element in it. But there's something about railway, it's much more related, there's rules and guidelines to a much greater extent. You can't build exactly where you want, you have to build where the railway goes, and very often you have to extend the distances you have. It's rare to build completely new sections. One should do the same thing, but it's rare. So this case is about the New Courses AS, and we've said that, we're going to see in a larger context. And then there's another moment in the last minute, if you can add this to New Roads. We've discussed it, but it's also a big deal, and we have to evaluate it in a larger context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1727	I will not prolong the debate much, but I think it is important to stress that we are on the right track. Ten years ago, we had much less than one third of the railway budget we have today. In reality, we built very little. We just have to assume that we've gone from having a railway sector that built very little, to today building quite a lot. There's been a sector that wasn't quite ready for the big expansions that have come, and now we have to do that. So says the representative Fasteraune, and it is so understandable that it creates some demanding exercises for the Storting, and to the extent that also for the government – when we have created expectations from a cost picture that is not entirely correct. But then it is all the more important that we look at food by industry and tell what we can actually deliver on, and that we give priority to what is most important for the railway sector first.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1734	The representative Bengt Fasterale has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1739	When I'm talking about command and control in this context, it's probably primarily the relationship in the sector I'm talking about. I think there are enough people to command, but there are too few people and too unclear about what's going on in the control bit. In terms of budget, I'm 100 pst. agree that the Stortinge has allocated a lot of money to the railway, a lot of money to the railway. That's what we're supposed to be proud of when we're going to go into a time when this environment is something that everyone should focus on. But that just means when the money is to be spent, we have to trust that they're being used correctly. That recognition, I think, we all have to have, that there have been great challenges, and we don't do anything about it, become big in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1746	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1763	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The first speaker is the representative of Helge Orten, who speaks on behalf of the President-in-Office, Elizabeth Åsjord Sire.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1772	The Coronapandemy has put us on a test in many areas, including in terms of passenger and freight transport. In an early phase of the pandemic, many activities had to be shut down and the need for passenger travel was greatly reduced. At the same time, it was important to maintain freight transport and ensure that people had food and the most necessary in their everyday lives. After a period of gradual normalisation of society, we are now back in a situation of increased spread of infection and the need for new mitigation. It also means new measures to ensure that we have a transport system that works even in times of crisis. The challenge is particularly great in aviation. Therefore, considerable resources have also been put in place to maintain activity at airports around the country. This is a vital part of our infrastructure and absolutely necessary to maintain value creation and settlement throughout the country. Government and Stortingen have arranged for the purchase of air routes. It has been essential to maintain a minimum of flight provision in a situation where a large part of the passenger base has lapsed. It will be necessary to maintain such a system until the situation begins to normalise. At the latest today, 1 billion have been presented. NOK in new funds for the purchase of air routes. Measures have also been taken to remedy a demanding liquidity situation for airlines, while at the same time charges have been substantially reduced. For many coastal communities, the coast route is an important part of the daily infrastructure for the transport of both goods and persons. The challenge now is that large parts of the passenger base are missing and therefore also the operational basis for daily sailing. In this context, within the limits available, the Ministry of Transport has arranged for two vessels to operate between Bodø and Kirkenes. It ensures a minimum of offers in the northern part of the country. I have a lot of understanding that this for many does not feel like a satisfactory solution, and is open to discussing improvements. In this way, the proposals that are being promoted today are interesting, but they must also be discussed in the context of the work on the budget for next year, or as part of the package of measures we are now considering in the Stortinget. The measures taken to ensure passenger and freight transport have, taking into account the situation, worked reasonably well. People have been given the goods they needed. At the same time, we know that we have many demanding months ahead of us with the need for further action and to ensure that we have a functioning passenger and freight transport system throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1789	I would like to take from the area I believe is most critical of the coastal population in North Norway now. The coast has transported goods between our 34 ports, which are visited every day, for a long, long time. For that service as well as for local passenger traffic, the State pays more than 856 million in 2020. kr. When the Korona met us in March 2020, the company Hurtigruten AS placed nine of eleven coastal shipping companies in charge. That was the understanding of then, in such an emergency situation. Later in the spring and summer several of the boats came into operation, and the offer of both goods and passengers improved. After the scandalous cruises that ended with huge infective blooms and yet to death, the capacity was again brought down to two of the eleven ships. This occurred in dialogue with the Ministry of Transport, and the company was allowed to reduce the route to go only from Bodø to Kirkenes. All calls south of Bodø have been cancelled, and via the media we have been informed that Hurtigruten AS can go like this even 3l. of December 2020. The Labour Party is amazed that the Ministry of Transport accepts this when the Department knows that this will be discussed in the Stortinget today. At the same time, when it comes to resolving the proposal of the Progress Party, it is quite clear that the government does not actually have a majority in its handling of the matter. There are major protests from all over the coast against the fact that the coastal route has been allowed to fulfil this very limited obligation. I want to remember what it is the state pays a very large sum for: 11 ships with calls in 34 ports from Bergen to the Church's every single day. This is not in the vicinity of being fulfilled. Why does the coast protest? Because it's hardly possible to send goods with this terrible frequency. Let me give you one example: if Båtsfjord sends fish south, there is hardly any place for fish from Berlevåg, Mehamn, Kjøllefjord or Havøysund. It is also quite unlikely that the fish will just go to Bodø, where the coast route turns. It is more likely to go to Ålesund. It means reloading, more expensive transport, which companies themselves have to carry. I see that the Minister for Fisheries has been in the Chamber under these matters. If he's still here, he can certainly confirm that this situation of getting fish out of North Norway doesn't work at all, and is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1804	Will the representative Olsen address the proposals of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1809	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1814	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1819	It's important to make it easier for it to live in people throughout the country. Therefore, in challenging situations, the public must, among other things,: contribute to the functioning of passenger and goods transport in order to ensure basic social functions, safety and preparedness throughout the country. It's an important social responsibility. Especially in the northernmost part of the country, many people are now in despair. Many food manufacturers have less opportunities to transport refrigerated and frozen goods, especially to Finnmark, after bringing down the grid that went five days a week. It's replaced by a route that goes one day a week. An example: Karls Fisk and Shellfish delivered 110 tonnes with Bring last year. Last year, the company delivered fresh fish to Alta within a day. Now it takes three days. It's very challenging. Not only does it take a long time, but the company spends hours per hour – they have been up for three to four hours each day – trying to arrange transport. Sometimes they get it, sometimes they are told on short notice that there is no room for their goods anyway. Then they stand there with goods that might have been in Harstad, and must start to run out on their own. It takes eight to ten extra hours compared to what was previously the case. This is a very challenging situation because there are long distances, there are fewer people, and the cost becomes great. The costs are passed on to the products and competition in a market becomes very difficult. I want to say that jobs and businesses in North Norway that are close to the resources are very important to take care of. We also have major problems in the north with air travel. It is important for businesses, businesses and health travel. The NHO is very worried these days, and it's not for no reason. They're afraid that Norwegian is going down, and that there's going to be a lot of businesses and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1832	Me and SV understand that there are challenges with the corona. It was just supposed to be missing. We understand that the Council of State is struggling to solve the problems in North Norway in particular, we understand that. But why is it that time after time, when there are such problems, it goes beyond North Norway and the districts? Because it does. There's a tendency that they're not that important. We now see that we have also had restrictions on aviation. We saw the message from Norwegian yesterday. This means, for example: that direct flights from Kirkenes to Oslo, as I perceive it, are cancelled. But there it may be that the Council of State takes some action. If all of this is true, the restriction of the coastal route offer would be such that North Norway is almost isolated from South Norway. That is the reality. So it's this form of behavior that often happens. When we think about the important freight transport that Hurtigruten has, it can quickly be that the goods find other ways. There are new habits, and then there's not so much imagination to imagine that those habits are about rubber wheels. So it's going to be carried on rubber wheels instead of on keel. It's not lucky. My big question is, when Hurtigruten has received over 800 million. in order to carry out its social mission, why is it not possible to require the use of other vessels, if any, so that at least freight traffic is maintained? After all, they have to deliver on the duty they have. It is possible there have been conversations about it, but I have not heard anything about it. I believe that it should be possible to deliver the services – and that is the freight transport that is the most important thing here – using other vessels if it is too expensive to operate the coastal route with the fast-haul boats that are. I would like to receive an answer to that question. I also think that the least we could demand is that the coastal route offer be maintained with half capacity. That is the proposal No. 2 in this case and supported by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1843	There is no doubt that there are major challenges in the transport sector and transporting goods and goods. This applies both in urban areas and, in particular, in districts. That's why I understand a lot of people living along the coast, especially in North Norway, in the situation they're now in, where we've reduced capacity from eleven to two ships. Therefore, the Progress Party has looked into whether there are any possibilities to try to come closer to a solution, and that is why we have also presented a proposal today asking the government to allocate funds to the coast route as measures in connection with the covid-19 outbreak, and that up to three additional ships can be deployed between Trondheim and Kirkenes to ensure the arrival every other day. We believe it is important to bring up the regularity here, and we believe that this is also a coronary action and should be financed through the corona resources. When we see that there was a package of measures today, I think it is a completely possible dangerous way to do something. I have to say that when I heard the representative from the Workers' Party, and so far also others, it seemed as if you gave over 850 million. kr to Hurtigruten to provide these services, but I feel that the Council of State has been aware of the economic perspective of around 850 million. kr. There is no doubt that we are busy finding a solution, and I hope you can go some more rounds to get a better offer in place. That is why we were committed to making a proposal. We believe that there are several possibilities to find good solutions south from Trondheim, but from Trondheim and northwards you can see that there are major challenges, especially in this time we are now in, with winter etc., as it may be difficult to get the goods out in ways other than along the coast. Here we hope to look at and manage to get solutions, which are important for people living along the coast, who are important for freight transport along the coast, and for living communities. That's why we're committed to finding solutions, and if there's going to be a majority for this, we also expect the Minister of Transport to look further at it to work to get a solution that's better than the solution that's there today. Of course, it's also about costs, how much money you spend, and then we have to try to find good solutions that don't cost too much money. I believe that this is something you need to find money for in the policy package from the government. I am therefore addressing the loose proposal by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1856	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1862	First flight routes, because it was also a bit of a matter. I'm a little impressed that you've managed to deal with the challenges that have been. It is absolutely necessary to solve those problems since there are no alternatives in the district of North Norway but actually to have an air service. This has been done by the Ministry by clearly extending the FOT routes with more purchases. The last thing I saw was that the purchases of the Oslo–Churches and Oslo–Alta routes persist. This is an example of purchases made by the Ministry of Transport to secure these routes. A little over to the coastal route and the challenges that are there: I have a clear understanding of a whole new situation. We had to find new solutions for the transport of goods, and there are probably a lot of people who have had to find new ways of moving. It's challenging. It is more challenging when there is a rare offer that does not go at all. So I think the representative Arne Nävra said he hadn't heard anything about there being any discussion about the coast route. We ourselves, in the committee, have had a good dialogue with Hurtigruten about the extra costs they received if they were to maintain an offer with several boats along the coast. Then, at least, it is reassuring that the Progress Party is talking about the budgetary issue of extending beyond what is now the minimum quantity. I think that's a little important for all the parties – if we're to have a better offer, whether it's for Bodø, Trondheim or everything, with today's situation, there's got to be extraordinary funds through the budget negotiations to solve the extra costs. Obviously, we have not completely completed these debates. We're going back to how to solve this. Be sure that Left – which had really been glad that the Hurtigruten would be much more environmentally friendly from 1 January 2021, it was like the big thing for us, but it is a bit waiting now – we are coming back strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1875	My question to Gunnes' representative is whether we have not become too environmentally friendly, because there are too many ships that remain calm in the situation we now have. I want to start by saying that I share the ambition of the proposers. We need a good transport offer for both the person and the goods in District Norway, and especially in North Norway. But we got a pandemic in the middle of March that actually shut everything down. And I want to give a thank-you to the Stortinget for a good cooperation, because basically I thought this has actually worked better than I expected – when we get such a strong shutdown. I think we have cooperated, both on what we have done for the public sector in Norway, on the possibilities for the state of it, naturally enough the air industry and the railway sector – we have, among other things. held the leadership of Haugesund and Torp. We also said that the running rights were extended for a period of time to make things work. And on the freight side, we've had 97, 98, 99 pst. And it's very good that we've done it. But then there are two areas that point out as especially demanding. One is aviation, which is experiencing its greatest crisis in modern times. We've only used between 13 and 14 billion in 2020. kr on that sector. We came today with a new flight purchase towards 2021. And we have to see that picture, so we have routes that cover the whole of Norway, and I'll say especially the district of Norway, which we're going to last. In the case of coastal routes, we have a contract there for 11 ships, but that contract says that there should also be opportunities for commercial revenues. With the low passenger number that is today, that part of the contract is not being fulfilled. This contract also concerns freight traffic. The contract specifically says something about goods between Tromsø and Kirkenes. That's that part of the distance we have an agreement with the companies about when it relates to goods. We have had dialogue with the companies, and it is their recommendation that we should go with two boats. The government then said that we need to give priority to North Norway, and we chose to go for the Bodø–Churches section, just to give priority to North Norway. We have reason to believe that we want to fulfil the agreement and the obligations that lie there, including within the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1886	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1891	I am glad that the Council of State feels that the Storting has been supportive in this difficult situation, because we really wanted that, and we all have a common goal. But there is no doubt that the situation on the freight side from North Norway and south is not only challenging – it is unacceptable. It just doesn't make sense to have it like that, because the goods aren't just going to Bodø, the goods are going on. The fish, for example: will give activity and work elsewhere as well, so this we have to solve, and we have to make this work. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State ensure that North Norway gets its goods out with an acceptable regularity out of the year and into the next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1896	We've been following up, and we've had dialogue with Hurtigruten. It was their suggestion that we take two boats. It's probably also a demanding situation for Hurtigruten that their incomes were really gone in the spring, and so have they been in the fall, not least with the shutdown we have now. Therefore we have followed up their advice, and that agreement is then linked to goods between Tromsø and Kirkenes. We have clearly prioritised that stretch by saying that the boats should go from Bodø to Kirkenes. So I want to be honest about this: we're going to follow up the decision that the Storting is making today, but it's also that in the situation we had in ours, the goods found the other way around. It is true, as the representative Nävra said, that one found another way that caused goods to arrive, unfortunately not via Hurtigruten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1901	It is true that the goods find other ways. It goes with trailers on our roads to a greater extent, and those who drive and transport goods today are afraid they won't get the goods back when this situation is over. It's an important thing, because the Storting has decided that we want to get more goods across from road to track and sea, so we have to take that responsibility. But there are also people who are affected by this where there is no call at all. The Hurtigruten gets its funds, but the ports that have no longer visited because of the Korona, i.e. from Bodø and southwards, thus receive no income. Here I can mention Rørvik and Brønnøysund and several others. Does the Council intend to ensure that compensation is given to those who work in the ports there and deliver goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1908	The government has today presented that we also have general compensation measures, which also have the type of business to assess. But when it comes to the Hurtigruten, or the coast route, it's some of the genius there that it gives us income because many passengers travel with it, and it gives us a chance to secure the freight traffic from Tromsø to the Churches through the agreement we have. But this is a whole-hearted agreement. Yes, the Hurtigruten gets all its money, but it has nevertheless been a demanding situation for Hurtigruten, and with the agreement that is there today, it has not been a profitable assessment for them. So it's natural enough that we should now consider the decisions that the Stortinge makes today, and of course I have full respect for the Stortinge and will follow up the decisions that the Stortinge makes. So we get to wait and see what this round leads to, and what kind of proposals get plural today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1913	It has been found that it is almost possible to follow up and get six ships operating at 850 million. kr, if you just press the Hurtigruta even more. And it could be interesting if the council could say what he's thinking about just that. So it's like that, and I'm really glad it's going to be 1 billion. kr to ensure that we continue to have air services and that aeroplanes will proceed. However, the Council of State could also say something about why it has not been assessed to add, for example: Quick route and coast route as part of the package of measures presented by the government? Do you think that is a good enough offer as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1918	It's true that we think there's the right level in this very special situation. So we hope to get back to a more normal situation with several fast-haul and coastal ships in progress. So we've been very conscious, we haven't set an amount to deploy more ships, but we've used the company's own assessments. They've said they need between seven million. SEK and 9 million. kr per month for each individual ship entering. But it is natural for me to signal that if there was a decision here today on a number, it would be my job to go to the negotiations to follow up what is the Storting's intention in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1925	We see today that there is a majority for a different coastal route solution than the one that the government is behind today. Our solution is six ships every two days on the entire route. But now the Progress Party has messed up the whole matter with this solving the quasi-proposal of up to five ships on the Trondheim-Kirkenes section. The proposal for the Progress Party takes little account of the real everyday life. For example, from Hammerfest 4,500 pallets of salmon goes to Ålesund. From Brønnøysund goes 90 pst. of the goods of Kristiansund and Ålesund. Stop in Trondheim and transhipment will cost the transport significantly for the companies and for the customers, and it will bring goods that should go by sea, over to the road – perhaps from Trondheim, perhaps all the way from Hammerfest or Brønnøysund. I challenge the minister: how can he go into a situation where we might get a quasi-solution here – instead of two ships all the way?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1932	Now I want to wait and see what is going to be the decision of the Storting in this case, it was not directly clear from the posts that are held so far. I think that I have done very well for what is an extraordinary situation, where we also see that making more contributions can have a significant cost, although of course it will be a negotiating situation. But what I want to be clear about is that of course I want to follow up on what becomes the solution that the Storting is going for. It's my job, and that respect I have naturally enough for the Storting. Our goal must be to get the coast route and the Hurtigruten into a more normal situation, because that's what turns out to be the ingenious thing, that this is a solution that gives more purposes, and solves it at the same time, but when it's just the freight traffic they stand for, that solution isn't as natural today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1938	The solution in the day is reduced. If we can get six ships all the way, it'll be beneficial and you don't have to carry goods on the road, so the solution is to stop in Trondheim. But I want to move on to the situation, for example. Water Island in the municipality of Karlsøy There's fish, but there's no way out of there. Those who live there are not allowed to send the fish into the market. We see that there are major challenges in North Norway in making the supply of goods flow. Does the Minister see any solution to bring down the shipping costs and up the frequency, for example, in the case of freight subsidies or guarantee for freight subsidies, the days when there is not enough freight going on for a route to be profitable with refrigerated and frozen on the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1947	What we're experiencing is that on the freight side, this pandemic has been impressive. Yes, I agree that we would like to have more on both sea and track. However, there are also some challenges, such as: in our experience that a large high-speed ferry had four passengers on board, and that in reality it is only goods. Then it won't be an optimal solution, and it's in the extraordinary situation we now have. I am not concerned that goods do not return to Hurtigruten on the day we have full capacity. Then we just get some of the brilliant solution we have today. There are costs to run large ships with as low a number of passengers as we're going to have now. That's what I think we just have to see. That when goods find another way, I think I'm good, because it's important that goods arrive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1952	It is not so pleasant that the goods find other roads, as the council says, if the goods pass on rubber wheels. I believe that a former Minister for the Environment agrees with this – it is not lucky. It is said here from the Council of State that goods have gone unusually well during the Korona period. Yes, I fully agree with that – it does, in fact, largely so. But what's the problem is North Norway now. I hold on to the fact that North Norway is kind of isolated as it looks now – the umbilical cord of South Norway is cut. That's not good. Governments also say that the department has been in close contact with the companies. Which one? Is that the Quick Route we're talking about, or is it the freight customers further south, for example.? It's pretty crucial to hear about. I would again ask quite specifically: could it not be that one could put the condition to the Hurtigruten that smaller ships might be used in addition to the fast-haul vessels to arrange the carriage of goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1963	We have an agreement with Hurtigruten in 2020. This is naturally enough the Hurtigruten we have been in contact with, and we have an agreement on goods from Tromsø to Kirkenes with the fast route. There is a basis for our assessment of letting the ship go from Bodø to Kirkenes, just to cover the part on which we have an agreement on goods. As of 2021, there are two companies operating in coastal strips. It's Hurtigruten and it's Havila. Of course, we need to have a dialogue with both companies about what needs we have in 2021. So it's true that we naturally want to have the most possible at sea, but not at every cost. It has a huge cost when we don't have the usual passenger traffic. I also think it is important for us that we do not isolate North Norway, but I think we must say that the most important part will be a good flight offer to North Norway. In this situation and with the winter months we're going into now, I'm sure the Hurtigruten won't be able to carry the important passenger traffic anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1972	The cord shift is over. We shall suspend the debate on substance. 9, and according to the announced agenda, there will be voting at 9 a.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1986	The size seems to be ready to go to voting, but first government councillor Knut Arild Hareide will transfer 3 kgl. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e1997	The majority vote first on the remaining issues from Thursday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2016	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2035	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposal No 2, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 3, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and Red Party proposal No 4, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 5, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how savings from changes in the tax exemption for electric cars can be spent on better and cheaper public transport and environmentally friendly transport infrastructure throughout the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2068	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a ban on the sale of fossil cars by 2025 if the objective Stortinget has not been adopted by the charging system as an instrument.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2085	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to determine how the charging system should look in order to achieve the 2025 target, including how VAT on electric cars can be phased in while enhancing the competitiveness of fossil cars in all segments.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2102	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking how the market share of electric cars can be increased in the leasing market through changes in the charging system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2125	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. Three from the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for different models such as the cuts in the tax exemption for the most expensive and heaviest electric cars and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2140	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2149	Case No. 1–3 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts 13–15. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2163	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Peter Frölich on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left the proposals No 4-6, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how information in criminal cases involving doping under the WADA prohibition list can also be made available to the anti-doping organisations, including any need for legislative changes.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the possibilities for new provisions of the penal code in order to be able to prosecute illegitimate use of doping in sport, including those who earn money on sports performance as a result of doping, with the possibility of financial withdrawal. Clear criminal provisions for those trying to manipulate sports competitions must also be carefully considered.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to determine the criteria to be met for State aid for international sporting events that meet the criteria of the WADA Code in respect of doping activities to be organised in Norway.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2201	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from Right, Party of Progress and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how information on sportsmen and support apparatus punished for doping crime can also be made available to the anti-doping organisations, including any need to amend legislation.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the possibilities for new provisions of the penal code in order to prosecute those who earn money in sports performance as a result of doping and the possibility of withdrawal.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to determine the criteria to be met for State aid for international sporting events to be organised in Norway.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposals. The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2239	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2244	President! The working party shall vote against subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2249	It also has to be the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2254	It's also supposed to be the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2259	Then the president suggests that everyone press the red button, that is, the counter button, and we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2291	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2310	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Center Party proposal No 2, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to initiate an evaluation of the Court’s administration with a view to evaluating the role of the DA in order to ensure the independence of the courts and the role of the DA as a legal actor.’ [[DA]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2343	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to initiate an external evaluation of the Court of Justice to assess whether the DA has acted in accordance with its intention and has exercised its mandate satisfactorily in all courts.’ [[DA]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2368	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Masud Gharahkhani on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 2-9, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2–9, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a two-party process in the Foreign Affairs Study to ensure full counter-dictation and oral consultation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend Section 14-1 of the regulation on the admission of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here so as to specify the elements to be investigated and stressed in the assessment of the best interests of the child in expulsion proceedings and to establish that expulsion decisions are to be sound in the best interests of the child.’ [[Foreign regulations]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Swedish Government asks the Directorate for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs to be consulted by the Government on expulsion cases involving children, as a general rule, in order to obtain an external expert opinion.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government asks the government to change the rules on public pay to lawyers, etc. at flat rates in the case of free legal aid and in criminal proceedings, so that each child concerned in expulsion proceedings is provided with three hours of legal assistance on an independent basis in advance notice and two hours in the case of a complaint.’;» [[increased rates]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for secure children affected by expulsion cases, the right to be heard, and to ensure that children are heard directly and orally to a much greater extent than today.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that, when examining an appeal decision against the expulsion of a foreigner who has children in Norway, the person concerned and the children concerned are given access to a personal meeting and to be heard at the hearing.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that in expulsion cases involving children, the real possibility for the child to be reunited with mother or father after the end of the entry ban is always investigated and that this is taken into account in the assessment of the child’s best interests.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that, when a child is born or is granted a residence permit after an expulsion decision, the expulsion case should be re-examined in two instances and the child given legal assistance on an independent basis.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2432	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests a review of the appeal procedure in the foreign field, with the expectation that this will enhance legal certainty, including the increased use of counter-proposal and orality in the appeal procedure.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2456	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2564	Then Stortinget continues the treatment of today's map and case no. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2569	When you look at the reaction in the hall, it might seem like I have a bad reputation. [[muttering in the hall]] We are continuing the debate from now on. I think we have to admit that the situation that is now in North Norway, with the very limited offer that Hurtigruten can offer, is very challenging. Yesterday I was on the Stokmarknes in the West Sea – the fast-track capital – and there I got clear feedback on what people from other coastal communities and ports like Hurtigruten are doing have said: The sailing pattern and the strongly reduced offer that is today are simply very difficult to deal with. It is such a poor offer that the fishing industry and others have great problems. I think we have to stress that this is the freight we're talking about here. It's the freight transport along our coast that's the big challenge, as also Mr. Ingarill Olsen talked about. Therefore, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have proposed that one use six ships and sail on the normal Bergen–Kirkenes route, with the call every two days. There is, of course, a halving of the offer as it should initially be, but it is at least something to deal with for people and business – that one has called every other day. That's what the Storting ought to be dealing with and being able to gather around. I think it would have been discussed anywhere else in the country if one were to halve the route offer on some kind of public communication. So this is the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV: six ships in all ports between Bergen and Kirkenes. So the Progress Party now comes up with a proposal that says Trondheim–Kirkenes. Where did it come from, like? Who has asked for Trondheim-Churches to be sailed? It's better than nothing, dear friend, but much of the fish from North Norway is going to the West, and it's going to be awfully heavy too to be transhipped in Trondheim. So that curve jump from the Progress Party is a little bit strange. I would recommend instead that the Progress Party vote in favour of the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, which is a better proposal. This could also be interesting to clarify: the representative of Gunnes could be understood as supporting the proposal of the Progress Party. Is it so to understand that the government parties do it? It might have been interesting to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2582	We all agree that a functioning transport of persons and goods across the country is important and that it is an important responsibility for society. The situation of transport in District Norway is now very unpredictable and very unstable. When something is unpredictable and unstable, it is often the case that we are looking for solutions, and that is largely what this debate is all about – looking for practical solutions in a situation that is both unstable and unpredictable. I think there have been many good points about what is going on on the Hurtigruten and the freight transport, and I hope that a good solution is agreed. For us, a good solution is a halving of what's going on today. There is also something else out in the districts that is unpredictable and not least unstable, and that is the flight offer. A lot has been done to maintain the routes, with the purchase of FOT routes to stimulate, so that there will be a good offer to the people. But at the same time, those who want to maintain the good offer to the people – that is, the companies that fly – are struggling violently. There's probably never been such a crisis in 20 years, and this is supposed to last until 2023. The industry has had a sales loss of 81 pst. Everyone knows why, everyone understands that you can't fly as much when there are no passengers. But at the same time it's also an image after this pandemic is over. What the government came up with yesterday is not really credible support for Norwegian aviation. It's a short-term idea, a thought that can ultimately throw the entire aviation into a situation that we haven't seen in Norway and that will permanently lead to a wing-cut industry without the ability to defend itself against unprofessional actors in the future. When the government yesterday said that they want a competitive aviation after covid-19, it was, I think, the wrong time to say it, because it's not. There is a red runner to unprofessional operators who will milk the best routes regardless of Norwegian workplaces. For us, it is important that we maintain what was already. In addition, it is now necessary to go in and look at some form of compensation scheme for the historical loss, directly or indirectly, so that they can get through the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2595	Just before the weekend, we had a meeting with the operators in Rørvik port in the Transport fraction of the Workers' Party. But it's not just goods that are struggling. Also, the flight routes make things difficult. One has taken down the number of squares, one has joined squares, e.g. Rørvik and Namsos, merged into Trondheim. They've reduced by 42 pst. the number of seats and the reduction in the number of travellers is 30 pst. In addition, when the aircraft first goes to Namsos and then to Rørvik, there is often no room for more passengers when it comes to Rørvik. The reduction affects commuters, and especially in the maritime sector, when there are no flights between hours. 10 a.m. 19 a.m. This is going to be expensive for the maritime industry, for the shipping companies, which then has to have an extra overnight stay when they're going to have a crew change. As far as maritime transport is concerned, they also report that more and more goods pass from sea to road, as has been said earlier in this debate. The goods must go every day, and there are no effective alternatives along the coast from Bodø to Bergen. This costs the transport and makes it very complex to organise the alternative transport. In addition, freight forwarders report large losses, in fact, so much loss that they risk going bankrupt. And that doesn't just apply in Rørvik port. As if this is not enough, the ports also lose call charges, charges that, as far as I understand, are embedded in the subsidy that the coast fast route has. That's going to be a lot of money. And just so it's said, I'm not going to quote what was said by these actors, because it wasn't just parliamentary expressions that came in the Teams meeting. So that crisis isn't just handled well, but it's obviously better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2606	Today is November 10. It was November 10, 1881, that Vesteraalen’s Steam Ship Company was founded at Stokmarknes, Vesteraalen. They were the ones who started the first fast route in 1893. This is a fine-tuned network of ports, businesses and transport structures that have evolved through generations. On each of the new high-speed ferries that do not sail along the coast are today approx. 140 persons on leave. This means that about 1,260 fast-haul workers go to Nav instead of being at work and out in services that the coast needs. It appears unwise for environmental and road safety reasons that up to 100000 tonnes of goods are now being moved from sea to road. It is contrary to the Storting's goal of getting more goods from road to sea and track. Everyone understands that the Hurtigruten is in a difficult economic situation due to covid-19, but the government must demand that the Hurtigruten offer be maintained at a proper minimum level. A reduction of more than 80 pst. of the offer while maintaining the full amount of public service procurement by Hurtigruten is both irresponsible and unreasonable, also in view of the fact that Hurtigruten’s contract partners are not compensated for a severely reduced activity. They are not satisfied with the corona measures in which they have been able to participate. It has not compensated for a fall in income. The representative Nävra asked Hareide if there has been dialogue with business, community and port operators before Hurtigruten was allowed to thin the offer, and before the decision was taken to sail only the Bodø–Kirkenes route. I did not register any correct answer to that question. I hope it comes. The centre party and I fear that we now see that Hurtigruten's international expedition activity takes over an increasingly large part of the tourist traffic that is going to come along the coast, while the traditional life-blood with freight and passenger transport is being locally depleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2617	I'll be brief. We were asked how we are going to vote on this matter from the government parties, and I thought I could sort it out. We see it so that this is a question that has to be resolved primarily in the budget. This will cost money for 2021, and it is natural that we see it in the entirety of the budgetary procedure. That is why we are going to vote against the proposal contained in the draft representative and those that have been put forward in this matter now. I think most people see that this is a situation that creates some challenges along our coast with regard to the Hurtigruten, and in the air with regard to air transport. No later than today, there was an addition related to the purchase of routes in aviation. Based on the signals that have come here today, it is natural that this discussion is being raised into the budget debate. In the case of Hurtigruten, or the offer of the coast route, in order to be more precise, we shall remember that next year there are two actors who will operate within this tender. We have to take that into account when designing the plan for next year. So an overall assessment made in relation to the budget, so that the department gets the opportunity and time to look at alternative solutions for how we can solve this, and what financial framework is needed to get it, I think it is absolutely necessary if we are to get a proper and good offer for next year in view of the situation we are now facing. We are not voting in favour of the proposals in this matter, but I just wanted to say that we have a positive intention to make the problem as little as possible and contribute constructively to the budgetary discussions we are now going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2632	First a small remark to Øystein Langholm Hansen's description of Rørvik and the challenges that are there. Yes, we're in a crisis situation, admitted Langholm Hansen finally, and that's actually not normal. It is rare that it is normal in a crisis situation. Then you have to try to make the best out of the situation, and I hope you can imagine you're talking about this. So over to Siv Mossleth: I understand that the Center Party and maybe also the Workers' Party really don't want to pay for the extra services, besides two ships that Hurtigruten can run on, that is, not to pay anything more than that, but to use what they already get. That means we have a new transport company that is in crisis. We were told clearly in the meetings we had with the Hurtigruten, about the costs they have of manning several ships. Today, it's not like you can handle the situation. That's what I was about in the matter of Sverre Myrli, whether we are to expand the offer. Yes, but we're not for it without a budgetary assessment around it. That's what I understood, that both the Workers' Party and the Center Party saw no challenges except to demand that the Hurtigruten should run, while the Progress Party clearly says that there must be some extra appropriations. The left will continue to stand in its position on this matter, and we reject the proposals that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2641	First of all, I would like to say that the Progress Party does not support the Committee's position, as it did when the Committee gave it up, because we have a separate proposal on the matter. Then I would like to say that calling another party's proposal a 'quasi proposal' from the pulpit in the Storting is quite special. It may well be that you disagree with someone else's proposal, but it's actually a proposal, and there are thoughts behind why we've wanted to do what we've done. I record that the party that believes this was such a proposal is a party that believes you can have six departures, and that Hurtigruten will ensure that it is financed within the framework of the Hurtigruten today. Then I think we have a company that's about to have big challenges, if you're going to put all the extra boats that are going to drive along the coast, into that framework, without thinking it's going to have to be financed. Governments have been pretty clear that you actually have to, if you're going to do this. I think you should be honest about this. It will cost money, but of course it doesn't have to cost as much as the Hurtigruten says it will cost. We basically believe that this is part of the crisis package. This is a major challenge for coastal communities along the coast, and that is why we believe that when we make an additional proposal today, the government should also have had the Hurtigruten in the proposal that lies there. That's 1 billion. kr in to do something on air routes, and that's very good, but I don't think that's enough either. I think there will be a need for additional money for it, just as there is a need for the coast route and the Hurtigruten. I fully agree that it is highly competitive that it is approx. 140 people who do not have a job – per ship – and who should have actually been on these boats, but unfortunately there are also many other places. Yesterday we could hear about Norwegian employees. It makes the impression to hear about people who are concerned about their situation and their job, but it also makes the impression that people who feel that the offer they had are no longer there. It also makes it possible to move, get goods, etc., struggled, and that's the situation we're up against now. That is why we have our own proposal, and I think it is a very good one. The centre party can afford most of it and will most of the time, but a few months ago they wanted one airline – that was SAS they were supposed to save – and yesterday they were going to save Norwegian with a new 13 billion. kr. So the money runs out quickly, but you don't take responsibility for things costing money. But as I said, we have a proposal. We want the government to look at this as if it were the other crisis measures. In our alternative budget, we have a proposal to strengthen the Hurtigruten and the Coastal Route. It's important to the people who live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2658	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2663	To the representative of Hoksrud, I regret that I did not mention that when I used the word ‘quasi’ it was not really my own words. There were feedback from the coast as it went up to the actors what the Progress Party has proposed in this case. I want to repeat that the solution outlined by the Advance Party is not very good. For example, from Hammerfest 4,500 pallets of salmon goes to Ålesund. From Brønnøysund goes 90 pst. of the goods of Kristiansund and Ålesund. Then it is not very wise to stop in Trondheim and digest this transport. So I imagine that the Progress Party should clearly vote in favour of our proposal in order to get a sensible solution on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2671	Yeah, it's a crisis situation. There is a crisis situation for the transport of goods in North Norway, and for the Workers' Party that is totally unacceptable. We see that the goods find new roads, with even more trailers along our roads. And we see another serious situation that we have to deal with, that is, that many off-shore agents are going bankrupt – without the state doing anything about it. One might suspect that this situation is so far away from Oslo pot that no one takes notice of it. Those who stand up in this are real workers. It's like Rune Saltnes in Brønnøysund, like Jan Hermann Lyders in Havøysund, who both run expeditions. And this isn't just about them, it's about the infrastructure along the whole coast of North Norway. So the question is, why does the Workers' Party think that the coast route should serve the entire coastline from Bergen to Kirkenes? It is a matter of the coast being linked, of dealing along the coast with each other, of goods from a place giving jobs and activity elsewhere. We're just as clear that we accept a reduced offer, but nothing less than a two-day call provides a predictable supply of goods along the coast. Every other day, fishing establishments provide opportunities for planning. Every other day, freight despatches provide the opportunity to reduce, but despite all satisfactory offers in these times of crisis. Those who receive the coastal vessels and moor the ships have no income when the boats do not call. The Hurtigruten has retained all its revenues — including those that would go to the expeditions and the port services along the coast. It makes the need for State compensation measures aimed at this group visible, which is such an important part of coastal infrastructure. I think it is time for the government of Solberg and the government of Hareide to listen to the people of the coast, so that we can find a better solution. The representative Hoksrud doubted whether we knew what the money from Hurtigruten went to. Yeah, that's 856 million. kr for freight and passenger transport – not for tourism. And the income goes down, but it's clear that it has to go down. Nobody can travel by boats that don't go. It's quite obvious. I am impressed when the precision party complains that others can afford everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2680	There are several representatives who have pointed out that we are in the middle of a pandemic. It has significant consequences, and that means that the offer we have – the country around, I want to say that – is not as good as we want. There are some consequences, and there are two issues in particular that have shaped this debate. One is aviation, and we can only follow the news picture and see what consequences it has. But we have said that we should make significant purchases of air routes that will specifically benefit District Norway, precisely because the main routes are easy to finance themselves, and there we come with measures. Then it's the coast route. There are several people who have asked me, Have we had dialogue? The representative Mossleth has done it. Yes, we have had dialogue, of course, but the densest dialogue will be with those with whom we have an agreement, and in 2020 it will be the Hurtigruten. The agreement we have with them on goods – and it is goods that have been raised as the main problem – goes from Tromsø to Kirkenes. I have already said in this debate that I will naturally follow the decisions of the Stortinge. It is my duty, and there should be no doubt about it. We follow this situation closely, and we all hope that we will get to an improved situation. But one of the ingenious things about the Hurtigruten or the coast route, which we have today, is that it gives more good things at the same time. The fast route is not alone, only on goods. It's the combination of tourist traffic and domestic traffic, the fact that we use the Hurtigruten to travel from different parts of Norway, combined with goods, which makes it so appealing. It makes me absolutely sure that when we get out of this pandemic and back in a more normal situation, fortunately this is not a debate we should have. But until then, we will follow the situation closely, and I naturally take with me the signals that this debate has pointed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2691	First of all, I would like to tell Jon Gunnes that it was Rørvik Workers' Party that met, not Røyrvik. There are certainly challenges also in Røirvik, but I am familiar with little port challenges in Røirvik. Both locations are also located in former Nord-Trøndelag. Then we have been told that the government parties do not support the proposal of the Progress Party, and I understand that very well, because it is a strange proposal. The wording and the proposal are in themselves strange – that the Storting should ask the government to ‘deposit funds’. What does that mean? It's the Storting that sets aside funds. It is the Stortinge that grants money, which is admissive authority. So it's a short cut in the proposal already initially. It is a much worse proposal than the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. Now it is up to the Progress Party in the vote on Thursday: Will they vote in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV and ensure a majority that we halve the route frequency to Hurtigruten? It's so dramatic -- what now sounds like an irresponsible proposal. It is really halving what is supposed to be routine production. Someone said we don't have numbers on the table. No, so now let's get it! There's a job for the Minister of Transport, because he said earlier in the debate that he's based on the Hurtigruten figures. Can the Hurtigruten decide what to do for 856 million. Do you really want to delete this item? If the Hurtigruten now comes and says no, they won't sail any ships – zero – will they be allowed to do so by the Ministry of Transport? What happens from 1 January? Can Havila, who is the company that has won one of the partial bids and will sail four ships, now receive millions from the state without starting to sail at all? No, we can't have it like that. Here we must get numbers on the table, we must get facts on the table, and the government and the Minister for Transport must enter into active negotiations and find solutions so that the Hurtigruten can at least sail the Bergen-Churches every two days. What's so fine is that this is what we're going to get back to the Stortinget, because the Workers' Party has also submitted a proposal for a representative that is now being discussed in the Transport Committee and that will be discussed in Stortinget in a few weeks' time. There we can clarify this and hopefully make good decisions, so that the Hurtigruten is secured as a good and safe transport source for people and goods along our beautiful coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2702	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2707	The Progress Party has a very good proposal, which we hope the majority will support. And then I wonder if the representative, Ingarill Olsen, has heard what Hurtigruten has said, because here it seemed like it's just taking money out of the box of Hurtigruten, and then it's just increasing on. I don't think it's as simple as that. In fact, there are some challenges, and that is why the Progress Party has a much better proposal, which also takes on board that this may have some economic consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2712	At any rate, when I have listened to representatives from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, I can see that there is no plurality for a proposal today. So we'll see what the Big One does when they make their decisions on Thursday. The representative Myrli said that I based my speech on the Hurtigruten. That's wrong. What I've said is that the numbers we've provided are the Hurtigruten they think they must have. But then the representative of Myrli says quite rightly that this must be a debate, and it is clear that if I go with numbers to Stortinget, it is not that easy to negotiate afterwards. I'm busy keeping funds for the community even at a time when we really need it. That's why it's like if the Stortinget decided, it's our job to negotiate, and then I'll negotiate in the best possible way to make sure that we get the most back from the community's funds. Therefore, we have been very conscious of presenting what is estimated to the company, but if more boats are to be added, it will be done through negotiations, and there will be the best possible means for the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2723	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2740	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2747	I have been honoured today by being standing-in for the case-rapporteur, Tom-Christer Nilsen, who has been caught by the be-at-home regulations of the time. I want to start by thanking you for your cooperation. It has given a rather unified committee position to explore the possibility of time-limited concessions relating to production companies. Entry into established value chains may be challenging for new actors. You can buy raw materials on the market but are not guaranteed the right quantity and quality at the right time for your own production. Purchases with an ordinary concession also require significant capital. Therefore, in order to ensure sufficient innovation and low entry barriers in the processing of seafood in Norway, it may be appropriate to have a broader menu to choose from when awarding aquaculture concessions. The Committee has therefore come to the conclusion that one will ask for an evaluation thereof, and the Right agrees with it. For us, it is important, as others have also described in their comments, that this is done in the context of the sustainability of the traffic light system. It is also important because those who already have concessions are entitled to predictability. Allocation should be made on objective criteria, in order to ensure non-discrimination and to prevent arbitrariness. A rental arrangement could affect the consideration paid. It may in turn affect the income of the aquaculture fund and hence the income of the municipality. This is important for us to have clarity before introducing the scheme. The Centre Party has made proposals to prohibit the sublet and sale of concessions. That's understandable. The concessions granted in due course to production companies are currently mainly resold, with one exception. We believe that this must also be looked at in the impact assessment. Most production companies will have to hire services or outsource concessions to those who operate aquaculture today. A direct prohibition could also adversely affect the soundness of the holding. In addition, it will be easy to circumvent through the sale of the company itself. Therefore, this question that needs to be considered in the design of final concession terms, although we agree with the intentions behind the proposal, is that this should be part of the value chain of production companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2760	Today we send too much unprocessed fish out of the country. The problem with it is that it doesn't create values and jobs. Nor does it build industry along the coast of Norway. The fish is one of our most important resources, and then we also have to make sure to use the policy so that we get more for this at home. If we are to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves of getting more secure jobs and increasing the value creation of coastal communities, it is essential that we facilitate access to raw materials throughout the year. In the spring we were challenged by a bankrupt and threatened business, Primex, on the Myre in the West. They challenged us politicians to look at a system in which they could rent farming concessions to use salmon in production in the part of the year where there is less access to white fish. The Labour Party's response has always been that we are open to any proposal that can help to increase processing, if it does not conflict with other important fisheries policy principles and objectives. Good suggestions we need more of. That is why we asked the Minister for Fisheries to be open to the proposal, which he was not. It was not possible to do so, the Minister for Fisheries replied, because there was a need for legislative changes. I've also criticized that for being very passive. Because in a legislative assembly, as the Storting is, we can change and adapt the laws that are needed to do what is right for the society we live in. This also applies to this case. That is why the Labour Party is promoting this proposal. Although the proposal came from Primex, it is important to say that the scheme must be general. It must be possible to apply to the scheme for enterprises in similar situations, which also want to contribute to the annual industry and increase value creation. The summer obviously did well for the Minister of Fisheries and the Right, for they have turned around and now support the intentions of the proposal promoted by the Workers' Party. Now there is no need to change the law. It was a wise turnaround, which I suggest is the first of many. I would also like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter and thank you for providing us with the necessary investigations to enable us to put in place such a system. It is important that we are open to these types of arrangements, but it is also important to ensure that the social contract and objectives are respected. That's why, in order to be very clear, we believe it's important to say that you can't rent out or sell these kinds of arrangements. It is also important that there is a temporary regime that obliges processing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2777	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2782	Yes, I will!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2787	Then the representative Cecilie Myrseth mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2792	One of the main challenges in ensuring stable and good jobs for the rural industry is access to raw materials throughout the year. The high seasonal fluctuations in raw material availability are particularly challenging for the part of the fish industry that is based on the processing of fish. And that is what this proposal is all about. The Progress Party is committed to facilitating the creation of annual jobs in the marine food industry and considers that such rental could be an appropriate complement to the general rule on the sale of permits. The Party agrees with the Minister for Fisheries and Food, who, in his letter to the Committee, points out that it will not be necessary to amend the Aquaculture Act in order to introduce the lease of permits to the fishing industry. It follows from the Aquaculture Act. It is also such that the Ministry may lay down rules on remuneration for the granting of authorisation under Section 5 of the Act and specify, for example: scope and limitation in time. I have argued that under the current law there is a wide room to decide how to grant permits. For example, it will. be able to grant permits which are limited in time and in return for a consideration paid down over time, and such a scheme will correspond by far to a rental scheme. Such a rental scheme must, of course, ensure the predictability of the industry, while at the same time being within the framework of environmental sustainability and ensuring that the income of the municipality from the aquaculture fund does not change negatively. The Party considers that rental would be an appropriate complement to the regular sale of aquaculture permits and that it would be appropriate to see such allocations in conjunction with the auction of aquaculture permits and the traffic light system in order to ensure environmental sustainability. The Progress Party is an incentive to facilitate the creation and maintenance of annual jobs in the marine food industry. The Progress Party considers that no further investigation is necessary in order to introduce such a mechanism as we are talking about here, given that this can be done within the current legislation. We are therefore promoting our own proposals in this matter. Subsidy, we will vote in favour of the majority proposal in the case, so that, after all, it will receive the widest possible support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2807	The representative of Kjell-Børge Freiberg has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2812	The reasons for this proposal have, of course, been done well in previous articles. I am also pleased that the representative from the Right made it clear that one did not see this as a new growth regime, and made it clear what framework this should apply within. I also understand that when one does not go into proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, it's not because an isolated set is opposed to what it says, but because one sees some technical things with the implementation itself. I am also pleased that one has not been on the line that the Minister for Fisheries was on when he sent letters to the Committee on this subject, but that one has chosen a more offensive approach. But I have to say it's a little weird about the Progress Party in this case, because they stand here and talk as if they have some more offensive suggestions than the majority have. The plural says that a ‘calls upon the Government to seek out a system for the rental of time-limited aquaculture permits in order to ensure self-production in the fishing industry.’;» If you look at the proposal from the Progress Party, it's more like they're ashamed of their own policies or they're afraid to bore the government on their toes, we know that the support party is often. But in other words, the government is asking you to start the work, not just to start the work, to start the work on "Opening for a Time Limited Rental", and then to bring up a case for the Storting. Here, the Progress Party is very careful not to be too strict with the government; the government should be allowed to do this ‘in an appropriate way’. In addition, a government asks to ‘explain how the introduction of a rental scheme could affect the income of municipalities’. Whether ‘to light’ is something other than ‘to assess’, whether one should somehow make this known to the population, or what the Progress Party has thought, is a little unclear to me. But I am pleased with the signal that comes to realize that the Progress Party will subsidly support its proposal, and I think it's a neat and good way to proceed when you're going to do something new: a deal out, a get the consequences, and then a set of actions will get a system that one is aware of the consequences of. I am pleased that there is such a large majority in the committee who join this small, but, to a large extent, the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2832	Now it's done well enough for this case. I think it's a good idea to figure out what this is going to be first. We have probably taken examples of the fact that the rapid handling of measures in this field has not been particularly successful. We have the Hjeltnes quota, which was the result of a rapid processing of a Progress Party Council. Well, we're pretty much all of us if there was a system that one isn't going to go back to. The rise in the quota ceiling, as pointed out by the Riksrevision, which occurred in the middle of the summer when we at Stortinget had travelled home to ourselves, was a dramatic change that has been criticised up and down in thought, both for the basis and for lack of consistency. This is another example, where one also wanted to do something overnight during the summer, which turned out to be a big loss with quite unintentional consequences. The show's long. I think I've only been away in some cases, but the series is long with measures where one should just set things up without being dealt with in advance over such large values. The series is long enough at least to get most responsible parties on Stortinget to think a little bit about before just starting a scheme that could have major consequences. This is an area that, of course, is difficult. Here we have a system where there is no system for renting aquaculture rights. It is published through – at least now – the concession system, and it has been suggested that the time limit for aquaculture permits, as it is now called. There has been a vote on proposals from the Labour Party on a 20-year time limit. It means that it's completely unclear whether these permissions are forever or not. The legislator has said nothing but that one has voted down a time-limit system. A rental arrangement will be completely different – how it will be allocated, how long it will be, what basis it will be, how it will be paid, how it will be financed if it does not relate to the income of neither the State nor the municipality, how should it be distributed without being auctioned? Production fee: how should the fee be? There's a lot of, many challenges that don't make it straight ahead just to introduce it. Perhaps the Council of State will find many stumbling blocks in establishing such a system. It's not just, at least not if it's going to be a fair system that should be objective in its allocation, etc. So you might want to start with a trial plan where you can look at this. In the long term, a rental model may be the preferred model for the entire aquaculture field, all the time allowed today is unlimited.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2852	Fisheries and aquaculture are a carrier of the Norwegian economy and of housing and business life along the coast. We've been missing out on our fjords, and we have good assumptions for doing this. The proposal today is in many ways very clearly highlighted by those who have been before me on the platform, but there is no doubt that we have some challenges to ensure stable and good fishing industry workplaces and stable access to fish raw material throughout the year. There is also a uniform review within the Committee. It's worth staying at the previous post, from the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, because it's quite interesting that the representative finally started. Is the allowances owned on a small basis or not? Then we move on to the whole system when we take a lot of money at the same time to the public, through, among other things. the terms and conditions under which allowances are purchased. Is it, then, that the representative believes that this could be a basis for rocking? It will significantly exacerbate the situation for those who have the concessions within their territory. I think it was worth mentioning because the representative was in there in his post. It has at least been my base through the discussions that those allowances have been purchased and that there is a private ownership over them. But of course it's free to have other cultures about it. Otherwise, I believe that the rental of a time-limited aquaculture permit can be an important addition to the general rule on sales and what is already established. I also think you have to take it with you, given that here the traffic light system is also fixed as a tool. We also have a responsibility to take care of the wild game, which is an important part of the traffic light system. It is therefore important for us that any rental arrangements should be made within the systems and frameworks of the traffic lighting system, so that economic operators can be predictive while also ensuring sustainability in industry and a level playing field. All-year-old jobs are important along the coast, although redfish are not the only answer. I think we need to have a round on how to ensure full-time jobs in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2865	Along our coast, there are hundreds of fishing industry businesses and fishing recipients. They are of different sizes and have different framework conditions relating to location, financial strength and the possibility of profitable operation in the fight for raw materials. The proposers in the case we are dealing with now refer to a specific case where a fishing industry is struggling with profitability and therefore wants to further develop operations with a combination of red and white fish to improve access to raw materials and ensure full-year operation. On a general basis, we would warn against a practice in which a representative proposal is promoted with an explicit intention to find solutions for individual companies that actively apply for it. As politicians, we are elected ombudsmen, responsible for safeguarding the interests of all actors in an industry where the level of conflict is often high, and the struggle for the resource base is hard. We also find it natural to point out the concerns raised by the Minister for Fisheries and Food in his letter to the Business Committee dated 16 June this year. A salmon permit is a gold-plated paper that is widely teared down and a system based on the granting of such permits on a sustainable basis has already been established, through the so-called traffic light system. It is therefore not clear how the rental of time-limited aquaculture permits to fishing industry holdings should, where appropriate, be done in relation to the already established scheme. First of all, there is also reason to believe that a large number of operators in the fishing industry would be interested in seeking. Thus, there is a challenge in terms of demarcation when a principle of equality is to be applied. The question of whether any rental free of charge could be regarded as subsidising under the State aid rules is also highly relevant. Nevertheless, like the other government parties, we agree that the proposers point to a solution that may be relevant to many fish industry companies that are struggling to maintain a profitable operation and adequate self-production. We are therefore pleased that a broad majority of the Committee has agreed in comments which state that a system of temporary lease-out of aquaculture permits in fish industry farms can enable value chains and processing with lower capital ties and risks to be established than through purchase, thus contributing to the increased processing of marine food from aquaculture. Furthermore, we are pleased that the same majority underlines the need for further investigation before implementation can take place. These are aspects such as how to adapt such a system to the traffic light system, how to ensure predictability of the industry and how the system can be put in place to ensure an allocation according to objective criteria. We in the Christian People's Party join in these remarks to the nomination of the majority of the committee, where the government is asked to seek out a system for the rental of time-limited aquaculture permits to ensure self-production in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2882	I share the wish of the proposers for more full-time jobs along the coast, and I think it is both positive and wise for a broad majority to ask the government to investigate a rental scheme that is more general for the fishing industry, and not a kind of ad hoc treatment of individual cases. When referring to a single company that has been in trouble, Primex, one must be able to say on a more general basis that the companies themselves must be responsible for the investments to be made and have the primary responsibility to ensure profitable operation. Should the State go in and help any company that is struggling for various reasons in the fishing industry, or in so far as other industries, we are putting up with a policy that could remind us of state aid schemes that we left nearly 30 years ago. We want profitable, full-year jobs, and that requires profitable businesses. Therefore, this government attaches great importance to facilitating value creation in Norway. We do this through a stable fiscal policy, good framework conditions and a trade policy in which we work for market access for Norwegian seafood. We see, for example: high customs duties on processed Norwegian seafood are also a high threshold for further processing in Norway. In addition, we have several good measures to facilitate better access to raw material throughout the year for the white fish industry. I mention the system of fresh fish and live stocks as two concrete examples. We also see a growing cod farm, which can offer new opportunities. Salmon and trout farming is an important industry for Norway, and salmon farming permits represent high values. It is therefore very important how we manage the Norwegian farming industry. In 2015, the government launched the traffic lighting system, among others. in order to increase the predictability of the industry with regard to the granting of authorisations. I particularly think the representative from SV came here with good reflections. It is important to investigate to ensure that a fair system is provided and not adhoc support for individual enterprises. The majority of the Committee therefore rightly points out, in my view, that before such a system could possibly be introduced, it is appropriate to explore how it could operate with the traffic light system and how any mechanism could be put in place to ensure allocations according to objective criteria. I've had criticism from the pulpit here because I've been too passive. I want to say that it is important for me as the Council of State to manage the great public values as a salmon concession is, in a proper way, and when we said no to Primex, it was because the company would rent cheap salmon concessions. I'm like this much more positive to a general system, which the majority of the committee points to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2893	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2898	First of all, I just want to say that what the Minister for Fisheries says at the end, does not vote. It's not like you've said that you just want a scheme for a single business, but it was now this business in the West Bank that came up with a thought about what you can do. For the Workers' Party, it has always been obvious that such a scheme should be put in place, it must be a general scheme. It is quite obvious that this is how we set up our policies, but at the same time we cannot be so passive that we become more system defenders and do not see solutions that single companies come with, which can be good for the rest. Now leave it. The right has turned and come up with better thoughts. It also applauds me, but what I'm asking is, when can the Storting expect to get this case back?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2905	We have to deal with the attitude of the committee. You want to get the case back next year, and we'll deal with that. I want to say that it is very important when we are going to manage public values, that in this case there was a single company that wanted to rent cheap salmon concessions because the company was in financial trouble. Now I see in the media that a happy solution has been found so far by the fact that the company, like other companies, has acquired new capital, new owners and is also going to purchase fish from a breeding company to obtain stable access to raw materials. I think that is a good arrangement, and I think those who are behind the company deserve praise for their further development. So time will show if we come up with good suggestions on how to get a general rental scheme that can work, but it will give the Stortinget the opportunity to deal with later next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2910	Now it's always been about renting out – renting concessions to get things going around – and I want to say again that you can't become so allergic to good suggestions because you think you're just helping a single company, that you don't even want to know. That's what happened in ours. The Minister for Fisheries rejected it in a blank way instead of doing as the Labour Party asked, namely looking at it. The minister has also sent an answer to the committee, and there I have something I want him to elaborate. He wrote to the Committee: ‘I would like to point out in general that if an unprofitable fishing industry were to be remedied, awarding salmon licences would be a bureaucratic and heavy-duty way of doing so.’ I wonder if the minister can elaborate on what he means by that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2922	First, I want to say that when I am criticized for being too passive to a single company that was in financial trouble, it is my job to manage public values in a good way. In this case, the company wanted to rent cheap concessions, and that's what we said no. Of course, we did not say no to facilitate a company getting out of financial difficulties, but neither can it be that the state should help all sorts of businesses that get into trouble. In this case, you would get an adhoc solution. So it's much better that a broad majority now facilitates that we can work out a general system to look at the possibilities that can lie in it. I think that's very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2927	I hear what the Minister for Fisheries says, but he did not answer my question. I asked for the deepening of something that the fisheries minister himself sent to the nutrition committee in a letter. I ask again: can the Minister for Fisheries clarify what he has sent to the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2932	I did not find that wording, so I have to get back to it. In any case, I think that perhaps finding a new way is very positive: we are going to get a mission from Stortinget to work out a possible general system that can help us get more growth, more full-time jobs and better framework conditions for the Norwegian fishing industry. At the same time, I hope that there may be a signal that the Storting, in terms of things related to value creation and jobs, in other contexts will have a case after this, can have a broad majority in order to create the most predictable for those engaged in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2938	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2945	I am very pleased with the consensus that has been advised on the business committee in this matter, and with the decision we are about to take today. It's always nice to come to Myre, which is the largest landing place for fresh fish along the whole coast. I was visiting there on 2 June 2017 and met for the first time those who work at Primex. What has characterized most of the places along the coast is that they accept fish, devour it and transport it out unprocessed. It crept a little bit at both the one and the other on the ant when we realized that there were some people here who were going to further process the fish. It was to be further processed, frozen and then sold as high-quality food to the rest of Europe. And that's what we want: further processing. In North Norway, we skip too many raw materials unprocessed. We have to climb the value chain. Then we have the farm permits. I agreed to make a proposal that we would make them time-limited. We haven't had a majority for that. It is clear that the prices that have been auctioned for recent years make them difficult to access. They are most accessible to those who have a lot of capital or who are already engaged in aquaculture. That's why I'm glad we're going to look at a rental arrangement. It is also very important, when this is to be explored further in the department, to look at the purpose, and it is processing, further processing, that is the purpose of this proposal to rent permits. So on behalf of the West Pole and Primex, who have been the example here, I am very pleased with the decision today. I think it can also benefit other companies that might think of further processing fish in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2958	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2975	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2982	In 2013, the former fisheries minister Lisbeth Berg-Hansen sent out a case at the hearing on the rolling MTB. It was a matter that was quickly rejected when Erna Solberg took over and became Prime Minister. Since then, this has continued to be a very important matter for many, not least it has been an important matter for the many smaller breeders. During the Committee's consultation, it took place, inter alia: point out that the smallest aquaculture companies do not have the same possibility as the large ones to make even use of the biomass allocated to production throughout the year, such as: is about the fact that the larger companies have several geographically dispersed locations which offer greater flexibility in operation. During the consultation of the Liaison Committee, a proposal for the MTB was also widely supported by many actors. Among other things, the fact that it will ensure a level playing field and, in particular, may help to increase the processing of fish, which is very important for the Workers' Party as well. There are two proposals on the table today. The Labour Party is part of a majority proposal – I am very pleased with that – asking the government to investigate a rolling MTB system. It is also said that the matter must be presented in such a way that we can deal with it before the spring session is over. The aim is, of course, to establish a testing scheme to help increase both processing and value creation. Fortunately, there is a great deal of consensus in this matter among the parties on the Stortinget. That's good. At the same time, it's important to get right. It is important to ensure that the scheme becomes sustainable, that it contributes to sustainable growth, and the majority of the case is concerned that there must be clear legislation based on environmental criteria defining the scheme. That is why we are going for a testing scheme that needs to be evaluated before the scheme might become permanent. The Labour Party is very committed to contributing to the creation of more jobs in the maritime food industry — helping to increase the value creation of many coastal communities along the coast. If we're going to do that, we're, as we also said in the previous case, dependent on all-year production, and we're also dependent on having with the smaller marine operators. The former rapporteur of the Labour Party in Hadsel, Siv Dagny Aasvik, has been a champion of the system we are discussing today for many years. I think especially those from the Westphalia know that very well. It is nice to be able to adopt policies in the United Kingdom that are under pressure from local communities, local politicians and industries. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Of course, it is 1–0 and a little annoying that the Progress Party managed to raise the issue before the Workers' Party did so, but we have in any case received an important majority in the case today. With that, I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e2999	Let me start by saying that I think this proposal for a representative is a clumsy well-worded proposal. But what is this? What is rolling maximum permissible biomass really about? For me, this is about people, about workers who have chosen to work in the aquaculture industry and who, on the basis of today's regulations, feel, for example, to be on leave in the new year, in the winter. You are allowed to leave because you lack raw material – for the fish you could have slaughtered when you are in line with the Nav office to arrange the permit, you have been slaughtered earlier this year, just so that you do not exceed the maximum authorised biomass ceiling for each breeder. I see that there is a common political objective in this room, regardless of the party, to facilitate the widest possible full-year jobs. That is exactly what this proposal for a representative is about. I believe that it is fully possible, in terms of sustainability and the environment, to achieve this. How much salmon to have in the sea at any time is not a new debate. Rolling MTB has been largely discussed in the last 20 years. It has been investigated, and there have been pilot schemes. From this very point of view, I believe that we have sufficient knowledge that means that we cannot say no to the rolling MTB – whether we are busy with them this is really about, workers who are not allowed to take part in having a full-year job without a permit part of the year. That is why I am happy and a little disappointed today. I am pleased that it seems that there is a broad majority for a system of rolling MTB in the hall. Then I'm a little disappointed that we're going to figure out what I think is already well established. Let me make it clear that we have confidence in the Minister for Fisheries. That is why we have the proposal we have in this matter. But we will subsidiaryly support the proposal promoted by the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e3012	The representative Kjell-Børge Freiberg then brought up the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e3017	This is about making it easier for smaller breeders to have the flexibility of larger breeders. For the centre party, it is important to have a lack of actors in the farming industry. So we're also going to support this equation right here, and we're going to have a trial plan. It is important to say that the target should be precisely to give smaller breeders greater flexibility and smoother access to raw materials. There should be no cumulative additive. Therefore, I am pleased that we have got as broad a number as what is behind this. I note that the case spokesperson is very pleased that the former spokesperson of the Labour Party in Hadsel, Siv Dagny Aasvik, has worked with and our involvement in this matter. I would also like to believe that former Progress Party spokespersons in Hadsel, Kjell-Børge Freiberg, have been involved in this matter. I note that we have a decision made on this matter in 2020, and then with a spokesman from the Center Party in Hadsel. It delights me, and it is an important signal for all coastal communities that will have done something.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e3026	It was so interesting to hear about the rapporteur's cabal in Hadsel in the last 30 years. So you get a belief there'll be some development in it eventually too, that it doesn't stick to what's there. In any case, fishing and farming are an important part of the future on the coast. Last year we exported 100 billion for good. kr, so there is a broad consensus also on the Storting to facilitate predictable, environmentally friendly and sustainable growth in the aquaculture industry. Fish are important from a public health perspective. With its proteins, vitamins and omega-3, the fish are a good choice for health at the dining table. Fish are important from a climate perspective, because little greenhouse gases are emitted per fish meal, and fish are important from an economic point of view. Much of the settlement along the coast of Norway is built up as a result of the fact that we have the fish. It is also one of our most important export industries both now and in the future. Coastal fishing and sea fishing have been of great importance, and we are also going to build on that, and there is a very important farming industry. Unfortunately, there are also some clouds above this, because it may have some environmental consequences. The left has been careful over a long period of time, pointing out that the farming industry must also take its responsibility for zero lice, zero escape and conversion of the fish feed from imported soya to new sustainable fish feed. These are important premises for growth in the industry. The environmental requirements for further growth are also an important premise when we are currently involved in ordering an investigation from the government on the introduction of the MTB, the maximum authorised biomass, in the farming industry. It is important for me to stress that any testing scheme would not allow companies to increase the biomass they currently have, but rather to see it as a whole. This will not least increase flexibility in adapting to the market, production and market conditions. It is not going to come from the fact that this will also be important for diversity, as many have pointed out in the case. This will be important not least for smaller companies, where one has greater flexibility and a greater opportunity to adapt to localities. This is a good thing when we also take into account what I said when it comes to getting into place zero loops, zero escapes, etc. I think this will be good. It will also confirm that we have a great diversity in the industry in the future. I look forward to having the matter implemented gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e3043	The aquaculture industry has gradually evolved into one of our main export industries. While the growth potential of this important district industry is high, both politically and in industry, there is a consensus that further growth in volume and thus increased value creation must be environmentally sustainable. Both salmon, diseases and escape represent challenges that have only been a modest growth in the total volume of production in recent years. The increased export value can primarily be attributed to favourable price developments in the world market and to a weak Norwegian krone. Another challenge for the aquaculture companies, and in particular the smaller operators, is to obtain the highest possible output over the year. Here the maximum permitted biomass currently sets an absolute ceiling for the companies, which can not be exceeded at any time. I would like to pay tribute to the Progress Party for the fact that, with the proposal we are now considering, they have created a movement to find a solution to this problem. Through good dialogue between the government parties and the opposition, a decision will now be taken to ask the government to investigate a rolling MTB scheme and to file a case for the Stortinget which can be dealt with during the spring session 2021. The variable MTB test following the so-called Bremnes model was completed in 2019, without such an evaluation being carried out. It would be natural for such an evaluation to be part of the investigative work that the Storting is now asking for. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Myrseth for his constructive cooperation, which led to a broad settlement in this matter. During the hearing carried out in the context of the examination of this matter by the Liaison Committee, all the hearing bodies pointed out that some form of variable or rolling MTB would give the individual breeder, and in particular the smaller companies, greater flexibility with a view to planning their own production. This applies, for example: regular deliveries to slaughterhouses and further processing plants and better adapting to market demand over the year. The majority of the Committee has chosen to place a great deal of emphasis on these coordinated assessments when it is proposed to ask the government to investigate this and present a case to the Stortinget. However, the majority have noted that there was also agreement among the hearing bodies that the introduction of the MTB without any corresponding legislation for which months may have uplifts in addition to the MTB allocated could result in an increased environmental impact over the year. This is because the companies will then increase biomass beyond the MTB limit when the sea temperature is high as well as early in the harvest, when the fish growth is best. The high sea temperature and the favourable life cycle of the salmonine will increase the total lice impact throughout the year. Therefore, the rapporteurs and the majority of the Committee agree that the introduction of a MTB rolling regime must take place within the current environment and animal welfare framework conditions. It is clearly expressed in the Committee's opinion as a prerequisite for the investigation work now commissioned by the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e3064	I would like to start by saying that the government has great ambitions for Norwegian salmon and trout. Therefore, we want industry to have predictable and good framework conditions that facilitate growth and further development within an environmentally sustainable framework. As you can see, there is also a very good deal of consensus in Stortingen in this case. I will also repeat the praise of the proposers who have received this on the agenda. Regardless of the way in which an authorisation system is established, there are many important considerations to be taken into account, such as the environment, fishing health, fishing welfare, control considerations, operational efficiency and other economic considerations. The proposal requested by the majority of the Economic and Social Committee is likely to give positive effects to businesses in terms of greater opportunities to exploit the good growth period in the harvest to produce fish. At the same time, the knowledge that we have so far shows that MTB schemes involving increased standing biomass could have negative environmental impacts and negative impacts on fish heels and fishing welfare. This must also be taken into account. Therefore, on the basis of the knowledge we now have, I believe it is both right and reasonable that the Economic and Social Committee should have asked for an examination before it might be introduced. It is also new in the case that the industry comes with very clear, unambiguous signals, as opposed to earlier, where one has not fully agreed on this with the rolling MTB. The Committee has listened to Seafood Norway and the seafood companies and has also taken into account the fact that the smallest farmers especially have strong wishes for this. Then there is also a unanimous intention, as I can read the comments, that one assumes that the environment and sustainability are a base for further development. It's also very important. There are many opportunities for further growth in the Norwegian aquaculture industry. Sustainability and knowledge must be a base for further growth. It is then necessary to develop new fish feed and sufficient fish feed to take account of future growth in farming. New knowledge in technology development will probably also provide new opportunities, perhaps also on land, and we are now seeing developments both on land, coastal and offshore in the development of the aquaculture industry. Last but not least, we must work continuously to ensure that Norwegian aquaculture industry and, to the extent that Norwegian fishing industry also have good market access at the lowest rates of duty.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e3077	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e3082	Now we've come a little way in this case, and it's good. But it has also been done a lot of work in the past, as has been mentioned by several speakers here, among other things. between 2016 and 2019, where there has been a sampling scheme. After all, the goal was also to evaluate it. The question to the Minister for Fisheries is: why has it not been evaluated?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e3088	I have no good answer to that. We're not done with that, so that's why it can also be included in the investigation work that's to be done on the basis of the decision that the Stortinget now takes. I think that knowledge and science also have to be at the bottom of the decisions we're going to make, so it's going to be a natural part of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-10.ana.ud106e3093	Several have not asked for a reply, and others have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox So today's map is ready to debate. Is anyone asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
