ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e51	The representatives Emile Enger Mehl, Vetle Wang Soleim, Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen and Lene Westgaard-Halle, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Hordaland: Hans Inge Myrvold For Eastfold: Monica Carmen Gåsvatn
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e90	The representative, Martin Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e95	On behalf of the representatives of Nina Sandberg, Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen, Eirik Sivertsen, Anette Trettebergstien, Kari Henriksen, Jorodd Asphjell, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Maria Aasen-Svensrud, Ingrid Heggø and myself, I would like to propose that the counties retain the possibility of deciding for themselves the recording models for high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e100	The representative, Marit Arnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e105	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Mossleth, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Sandra Borch, Jenny Klinge, Liv Signe Navarsete, Hans Inge Myrvold and myself, I would like to propose measures for a better ferry policy in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e110	The representative, Sandra Borch, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e115	On behalf of the major representatives of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Ole André Myhrvold, Emilie Enger Mehl and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on the licensing of the wolf zone, especially the rivals in Manken and Rømskog, and I would like this matter to be dealt with urgently under § 39(d) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e121	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e139	The Presidency shall promote proposals for the appointment of the Committee ombudsman of Civil Ombudsman Hanne Harlem. In October 2019, the Stortinget elected municipal lawyer in Oslo, Hanne Harlem, as a new civil ombudsman. She joins the job on February 1st. Hanne Harlem has asked the presidency to assess her viability on the basis that she is today a municipal lawyer in Oslo. It is not unusual for persons elected or appointed as public offices or posts to be considered inhabiles to deal with certain matters for a shorter or longer period of time. It has also been appointed on several occasions for specific cases by the civil ombudsman. The Civil Ombudsman Act maintains that the rules of the Court of Justice on the sustainability of the Ombudsman apply. The Presidency has therefore taken account of the practice followed in the appointment of Supreme Court judges who have been lawyers, including practices followed in the appointment of Supreme Court judges with a background from the Government Attorney's Office. In the light of this, the Presidency has concluded that Hanne Harlem is regarded as incapacitated to deal with matters with which she has held office as a municipal lawyer in Oslo. In addition, she is considered incapacitated to deal with other matters relating to the Municipality of Oslo for a period of time. By virtue of the Civil Ombudsman Act, the Presidency shall be delegated to elect the Nomination Ombudsman. As the number of cases relating to the Municipality of Oslo is likely to reach a certain extent, and because the election of proxy officers is valid throughout the current parliamentary term, the presidency has chosen to bring the matter before the Stortinget. As an ombudsman for all cases, with the exception of cases relating to national prevention mechanism, Professor Emeritus Inge Lorange Backer is proposed. For the treatment of issues related to the national prevention mechanism, i.e.: the handling of cases before the Ombudsman concerning the torture prevention mandate is proposed to Professor Kirsten Sandberg. Both proposed candidates are experienced lawyers with very relevant professional background. I am therefore confident that the proposed candidates will perform the duties of ombudsmen in a good manner. I recommend the vote with the proposals that have been put forward there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e160	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e177	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e194	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for the replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e201	The challenges on which this case is based have been debated many times in the past, and it is often that matters of this nature are debated at some point. But with regard to the copper network and the challenges and conflicts associated with this, new information is constantly emerging. The thing, as we debate it in the Storting today, is not new, but there are constant calls to us that make it look like the government's reality is not in line with the world out there in District Norway. As things are out there in the real world, we don't seem to be done debating Telenor's copper networks for a long time yet, and that's the situation that the proposers want to address. I actually want to commend the proposers for addressing the matter, which we in the Workers' Party are also committed to finding a solution. It is true that new technology for the longest time has been out-competitive in terms of quality and speed, but in general, the old telephone lines are superior to both the mobile network and the fibre network – not because the big cities depend on the copper network, but because the districts are. The copper network is the only connection many people have to both the Internet and telephony. We in the opposition parties can well shake our shoulders to get rid of the hardy voters who are constantly addressing us on this matter, but if we do, we do not take care of our role as ombudsmen for the inhabitants who are struggling to penetrate the powerful wall as government and magnification can often stand out as. A new group has now begun to address us. It is enterprises that currently have network supplies through the copper network, which are afraid of monopolistic and more expensive network access with access to fibre, and which are also anxious for the so-called redundancy of the network. These old cables are owned and run by a state-owned company that the government can order, if you want, and if the government orders the company, they must obey the order. We have repeatedly been assured — including in the letters of the Council of State to the Committee on this matter — that no one should be disconnected from the copper network without having a different and better access option, for example. via fibre or mobile networks. We don't know where the plug is, or what's the reason, but it doesn't seem that Telenor has fully understood this. At least they have not been able to show or convince their customers in the copper network about this. This has also been proven by visitors to several villages around, most recently in the autumn of Sokndal in Rogaland, and I think the Council of State knows this matter. As regards proposal No: 3: We believe this is a proposal that addresses a question of how and why we should be earned ownership of Telenor, and in the security situation in which the world is located, it will be a straightforward clarification to get for a state-owned company. Therefore, the Workers' Party ceases to investigate the consequences of phase-out of the copper network. With that, I will deal with the proposals that we are on, and that concerns proposal No. One, two, three.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e220	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e225	The copper network has become over 100 years old. There are lines that in their time were built to offer a fixed telephone and after each broadband. The copper network is no longer always able to meet the need for speed, stability and capacity. In addition, when errors occur, they are vulnerable. That is why Telenor has decided to phase out the copper network before the end of 2022. Norway has very good mobile and broadband coverage. According to the latest coverage study from 2019 carried out on behalf of the National Communications Authority, Nkom, has nearly 100 pst. of households, a basic broadband offer in the form of either fixed or mobile broadband. 86 pst. the household has high-speed broadband, compared to only 63 pst. in 2013. In general, mobile networks provide a much faster broadband connection than the copper network. The copper network as it appears today cannot deliver 30 Mbit/s in most cases and in many cases not more than 20 Mbit/s. Furthermore, there is no basis for claiming that the copper network is generally safer or safer than mobile networks. The role of the State is to facilitate investment through good framework conditions and to ensure the necessary security and preparedness of the networks through regulation, cf. the characteristics of the eco-laws on this and other legal acts as well. On the right, we believe that broadband policy, where commercial operators have been responsible for the main weight of supply, has been very successful. It involves having a market-based policy with state resources for those areas where there is no basis for commercial investment. It is also appropriate to highlight that government contributions have increased under this government, and that only from 2018 to 2019 have approx. 100000 new households have been offered high-speed broadband, of which at least 10,000 have government support. The right point is that the proposals from the proposers to freeze the modernisation of the ecosystem, pending an impact assessment, are a bad proposal, which will help create uncertainty and delay investment in upgrading and transition to new and better technologies. A far better option is that Nkom and the Ministry follow developments and have dialogue with market players, county councils, municipalities and businesses and continuously assess the functioning of the measures already implemented and those on the stairs. Recent developments indicate that both rapidity and coverage are at the heart of a very positive trend, and that both the general broadband policy and the measures taken are working as we wish. Right is satisfied that, in the light of Telenor’s refurbishment of the copper network, Nkom sees the need to change the content and scope of some of Telenor’s obligations in the broadband market. Several broadband providers today base their services on purchasing access to Telenor’s copper network and, therefore, it is of great importance that they access the replacement product in Telenor’s future broadband infrastructure. Finally, the right has confidence that the Department and the Nkom are currently assessing the various aspects of security and competition in phase-out of the copper network, so that Telenor’s decommissioning of the copper network does not have an unintended impact on customers, especially customers with a socially critical function.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e242	This proposal for a representative is based on the plans for the modernisation of Telenor's fixed network. Telenor has announced that they will phase out this copper network completely by the end of 2022. Telenor actually planned a modernisation of the copper network as late as 2016. The telephone network via the copper network was developed through a state and municipal dugnad spirit during the 1920s. It has a long story and starts to get outdated too. Telenor’s justification for phase-out of the copper network is increased data use, which means that the copper network no longer meets today’s needs for speed, stability and capacity. This is fully agreed by the Centre Party, especially for customers who depend on large capacity. However, it is not well enough to know whether the advertised replacement products, often based on mobile broadband, are a sufficient alternative to the copper network for those who prioritise safety and availability over capacity. The centre party considers that phase-out of the copper network in addition results in the disappearance of an important spare solution. In particular, parts of business and public enterprises are totally dependent on uptime. We now have a working copper network in full operation, and we should therefore be absolutely sure that the alternative solutions provide the necessary security before the copper network is phased out. The central party also wants the investigation to examine the treatment of similar infrastructure in other countries. I notice that the majority in this Chamber are also concerned that this phase-out does not take place until there is a satisfactory alternative, and that security and competitive conditions are safeguarded. Nevertheless, the government's parties are opposed to an impact assessment and a guarantee that the copper network will be maintained until there is a safe replacement. A secure replacement is not necessarily an unsafe 4G network. Reference is made to the close dialogue between the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation, the National Communications Authority, and Telenor to ensure that the interests of those affected are properly safeguarded. According to the Government's replies to the Committee, Telenor has stated that the company will only stop the maintenance of copper lines for customers with better technology available, either via fibre or 4G coverage. Customers who have no alternative to the copper lines yet will get the line fixed if there are errors. Then it's probably just to vote for this proposal, because it's obvious that here reality is completely different from the beautiful words that are presented in remarks from the government parties and answers from the council. It is mildly alarming that the government parties believe that this proposal will freeze the modernisation of the ecosystem, create uncertainty and delay investment in upgrading and renewal to new and better technology. It's as far from the truth as it's possible to get. If the Central Party had not promoted this proposal, the majority would not have come on track at all. The response that the Nkom and the Ministry are following developments continuously and have continuous dialogue with market players, county councils, municipalities and businesses, and continuously assessing how the implementation and future actions will work is not in the vicinity of responding to the concrete proposals being debated today. It is precisely the business community and the other actors who have contacted us because they are very concerned. The answer is probably closer that Nkom and the department deal with the answers from Telenor. When the Ministry has confidence that Nkom is continuously assessing the various safety and competition aspects of the phase-out of the copper network, it should have been in the interest of Nkom that an impact assessment should be carried out without delay, so that Telenor’s closure of the copper network does not have unintended consequences for customers, in particular customers with a societal and business function, who are totally dependent on a secure network of 100 pst. uptime. In its response to the Committee, the Council of State states that a future universal service obligation on broadband ‘will ensure that all residents and businesses throughout the country have a fundamentally good broadband offer’. The centre party believes that in particular, clarification is needed as to whether the substitutes for copper can secure 100 pst. uptime. This can be critical for both individuals and private and public enterprises. It is sole proprietor with small margins that depend on 100 pst. up-time and at risk of losing it with phase-out of the copper network. Today, when we have a working copper network in full operation, we should be absolutely sure that the alternative solutions provide the necessary security before the copper network is phased out. We believe that today's mobile broadband is not a stable and fully-fledged alternative to the copper network. Then I would like to take up the suggestions from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e272	The representative Bengt Fasterale has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e277	Last night there was a call at the door at my house, and there was a seller from Telenor who was going to offer broadband connection to my house, about the middle of Trondheim's center, because now you're going to phase out the copper network in my area. So it's not just the districts this applies. Modernisation and fibre conversion are taking place throughout the country. I have to say that I'm really impressed with the speed at which this is going, and if you're going to phase out the copper grid by the end of 2022, I just see it as a very big advantage that you phase out as quickly as possible. But to the proposal of the Center Party here: a year ago I was also very skeptical, when we received the first messages that Telenor was driving and sending out letters that we should not maintain, but phase out, etc. It was a little daunting information and a little quick decisions, because we saw that we might not be able to implement it without any promise that it would be a substitute. Then there has been a good debate, a good discussion, a good dialogue on how this should be done. The entire committee was at Telenor and received good information not long ago, and we know that the Council of State has also taken up the different things, and Mr. Nkom is really on the road with regard to what is written in the note sent by the Council of State on this matter. I trust that Mr. Nkom and the Minister of Digitalisation in his department will do their job and speak the truth when you tell them how to deal with this in the future. That one is so distrustful of the fact that this should not be done in a good way, and suspicious of the fact that this is not good enough to meet the requirements that might have to be made, I think it is a little remarkable when we have really had a very good debate around. I understand that customers – and for my part as well – are sceptical when it becomes such a fast switch, and not least because the copper network has worked very well for my needs and the needs of many others. There hasn't been any top quality on the velocity, but it's worked, and it's been stable. We all remember that we have had a fixed phone and that we have been able to call it in a good way. But today there are new demands, there are new, modern technologies, and that gives us so many new opportunities. I don't think we should slow down the evolution that is, and I think the Workers' Party has a good quote in its remarks about the future being bright in terms of technology. The father is that we look back and believe that the last step in modern technology has already been taken. The seller last night was quite good, so he convinced me that of course I had to sign that I wanted to buy these new services from him. Now it will be said that – after an introduction price and, of course, a very good offer with discounts and miscellaneous – it will probably be an expensive scheme. Obtaining data and using data are quite expensive in Norway. There's another debate, but that's what the Left has pointed out on several occasions, so we'll get it back to another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e288	Norway has world-class digital infrastructure. 99.9 pst. of the country's households today have the opportunity to get broadband at a speed that is good enough to read newspapers, send e-mails and use public services online. Since the government took over in 2013, there has been a formidable development in high-speed broadband, i.e. broadband at a speed exceeding 100 Mbit/s. In 2013, only 63 pst. by Norwegian households access to high-speed broadband, and only 11 pst. of households in spread-built districts had offers of fibre-broadbands. In 2019, a total of 86 pst. by Norwegian households offering high-speed broadband, and we are ready to achieve the goal that we set in the Digital Agenda, which many thought would be demanding to achieve, namely that 90 pst. households should have high-speed broadband offers by the end of 2020. Mobile broadband has also been a good development. 98 pst. by households estimated to have indoor 4G coverage, against only 51 pst. in 2013. Market-based policies, where private broadband actors are mainly responsible for the development and financing of broadband provision, have been in place for many years and are very successful. It is therefore surprising that the Senterpartiet and SV in their comments call for the public to be those who are developing and responsible for broadband in Norway. It's turning the clock back several decades. Stakeholders invested almost 10 billion. kr in the ecosystem and ecosystem services in 2018. As a result, around 100,000 new households were offered high-speed broadband only from 2018 to 2019. In some places there is no basis for commercial investment, and therefore the country also contributes money. In 2020, the bulk of the population has allocated 256 million. kr in broadband grants. It's a high-ranking level. Based on experience from previous years, there will be four to five times as much invested funds, thanks to spice layers of enterprises, county municipalities, municipalities and others. In an increasingly digital society, the risk of digital exclusion is increasing. That's why we have to keep working to get everyone online. The government has therefore announced that we will prepare our own big message for the echo, where we, among other things, shall set new broadband coverage targets in Norway. The government has also sent a proposal for universal service obligations on broadband to be consulted. Such a universal obligation will enable all citizens and businesses to make a fundamentally good offer, and I will come back to Stortinget with a proposal to change the law during the spring. Telenor has decided to phase out the copper network. This is a major technology change, and I have a great understanding that it creates concern. But let me also stress that modernisation of the network will also benefit consumers and businesses. Innovation and new technologies could provide better services in the future. In many cases, copper grids cannot deliver speeds above 20 Mbit/s, while alternatives, fibre and mobile networks, often deliver much higher speeds. In the future, most expected speeds will rise to 100 Mbit/s or higher, and Telenor has announced that through the 5G network they will be able to offer fixed mobile broadband at speeds above 100 Mbit/s. So when some games in this room will keep the copper network alive, it's kind of like clinging to the landline when the iPhone's on the market. It has also been pointed out that mobile broadband may have its weaknesses. Yes, it can, but it also has the copper network. The older it gets, the more errors will occur, and with fewer and fewer customers connected to the copper network – there were 20 pst. reduction only in the last 12 months – the cost of operation and maintenance per customer will increase sharply. National communication authority oversees the compliance of eco-providers with their obligations and that copper remediation does not have adverse consequences. The assessment of the budget is that at present there is no basis for requiring Telenor to maintain and maintain the copper network in addition to the requirements already in force. However, the Ministry has asked the National Communications Authority to submit a status report that provides an overview of both the evolution and pace of copper remediation and of the observed and probable consequences of the closure, including consequences for the overall broadband coverage, the safety of the ecosystems and competition in the market. The status report shall be submitted quarterly and the first report shall be available by the end of January. The Ministry assesses the situation on an ongoing basis and will, if necessary, implement new measures. At the same time, it must be emphasised that any obligation on Telenor to stop the reorganisation of the copper network may have adverse consequences for citizens and businesses because the planned modernisation of the network is being put on hold. The stable market-based and technology-neutral broadband policy to which changing governments have adhered has provided predictability and certainty for investments by market players and, in particular, good results for broadband development. It is important for the sector, and therefore for customers, that this predictability and stability be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e316	On the website E24 last July, we were able to read about a new mobile solution that Telenor is about to phase in. Governments have repeatedly told Stortinget that no one should lose network access by disconnecting the copper network or not maintaining it. Last week we received an e-mail from the rapporteur in Selbu: ‘In Selbu many copper lines are now cut, but this IS NOT without replacement products [[Of course, these do not have access to fibre/cable networks]] What does the Council of State say to these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e327	Telenor has publicly assured that they will not pick up the copper network until there are adequate alternatives in place for the inhabitants and businesses in the area concerned. When we get these kinds of reports, we'll of course report them to Telenor. We are concerned that Telenor is following the promise they have given, because in this transformation phase we need to ensure that the inhabitants and businesses do not get hurt. There's no doubt that the modernisation of the copper network is a good and necessary thing, but it's in the conversion phase that we have to make sure that all companies and individuals get out of it well, and of course we'll follow that up with Telenor. I myself have not received the request from Selbu to which the representative refers, but we take note of this, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e336	Thanks for the answer. It doesn't give us net access that once and for all, it says this shouldn't happen. The same rapporteur wrote in a reading article, a chronicle, in the Address Paper on 7 January: ‘No, Norway is not digitised. Norway is only partially digitised and, to the most extent, distorted. There is much that is missing before the whole of Norway is digitised; there is actually a lot that is missing before the whole of Norway has usable phone signals [[...]] It would have been interesting if the Council of State could explain to us why reality is so far different from government buildings and out to the homes and town halls of the district municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e346	The chronicle the representative refers to, I read, and I also sent an answer. The address paper hasn't found the ventricle to press it yet, but hopefully it will happen gradually, not least now that it's been brought to the attention here in the main hall. I do not agree with the picture drawn by the fact that the whole of Norway is not digitised. Compared to other countries, we have a fantastic development in this area, but there are still challenges. I am not satisfied until everyone has a satisfactory broadband coverage and a satisfactory mobile coverage in this country – every single household, every single company. That is why we are proposing universal service on broadband services – what is needed to ensure that the population is offered a basic good offer, and that businesses receive the same – and that we present a new growth message that we are going to set new targets for broadband policy, now that we seem to achieve the targets we set in the Digital Agenda in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e353	We are looking forward to that message coming, and we are going to be happy, I think, voting for a binding connection – an opportunity in line with water and sewerage. I showed in my post that we don't know where the plug is in the communication between Telenor, Nkom and the department. It does not seem that Telenor communicates equally well in all the districts about what happens when the copper network falls out. I wonder how the communication between Nkom, Telenor and the department is going on, for many people out there feel a lot of concern about the communication they have with Telenor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e360	Of course, we must take that concern seriously. My communication with Telenor is good, and my impression is that Telenor has visited all the municipalities of the country and met with all the rapporteurs who have wanted to meet them to create a plan for the transition from copper to alternatives. I have the impression that Telenor is taking this problem seriously. However, I do not doubt that this could happen, but we have to make sure that we are clear to Telenor that this should not happen. I would like to say that I am pleased that the representative of the Workers' Party has not supported the approach of the Centre Party and SV in the comment, where they want the public to take responsibility for the supply of broadband throughout the country. It would be a major step backwards for the development of critical infrastructure in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e367	First, I want to say that I think everyone here agrees that there is a change of pace that also goes on with the transition from copper networks to other good digital solutions, and other solutions, which are the future in Norway. Nevertheless, we ask ourselves whether it makes sense to take a little breath in the ground, so that we are sure that we get all of us. Many enterprises and public enterprises have multi-location communication solutions. These customers purchase an advanced solution for data communication services, with a secure closed network. 52 pst. these locations have a fixed access via copper, i.e. In the United Kingdom, it is estimated that the number of people living in the United Kingdom has increased by more than one year. 145000 such locations communicate via copper lines in Norway. They depend on 100 pst. uptime. Is the Council of State confident that everyone who loses the copper network will have an adequate alternative, so that phasing out does not prevent digitisation in Norway in the near future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e376	I think it is important to remember that errors also occur on the copper network. It is not that you have copper networks, so you have a fantastic offer of 100 pst. uptime, which never fails. On the contrary, we are constantly experiencing more and more errors on the copper network because it is old, and in many areas of the country very old. There are fewer customers, so it is also more demanding to keep the copper network in proper condition in the future. We need this shifted to another and more modern technology. I think that's a reasonable shift, which will provide better services both for households and businesses than what you can get over the copper network. I don't think the Central Party's approach to how we're going to do it, namely that the state should take full responsibility for the expansion, as indicated in the comment, will be the answer to how it is to be resolved. This is not what has caused Norway to be among the world’s best infrastructure in this area. On the contrary, making the market contribute to doing a good job that has made us do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e385	What we're talking about is keeping backup solutions until you get new solutions in place. That's what's the concern of all those who address us. Another example is that copper today for many are the only redundant alternatives to mobile phones, and if this disappears, many businesses will lose their readiness. No one has investigated the consequences of shutting down a national network that delivers both to the health network, the emergency network and many other societally critical activities. Jölster is an example. When the fibre axle is cut and the mobile operators are on the same mast, it gets dead. A new emergency network is planned in 2026. From the planned phase-out of the copper network in 2022 until a new emergency network is ready in 2026, it is not clear what happens to the emergency network. Does the Council of State think this is satisfactory?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e396	The decision that the emergency network should be moved into the commercial mobile networks from 2026 is taken, and now you are working on a concept selection inquiry to see how it can be done in a sensible way. I agree that you have to keep backup solutions until you have good alternatives in place. That's exactly what Telenor says they're going to, and we're careful that Telenor actually does. Of course, all feedback on the opposite is taken up with Telenor. So we have to look at the regulation we have for the sector in the light of Telenor's decision to shut down the copper grid. That decision came shortly after the adoption of the applicable regulation, and Nkom has notified changes and clarifications to the obligations imposed on Telenor in the broadband market as a result of the decision to phase out the copper network. Of course, we're going to follow this closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e405	I just want to record the thread again. What we are talking about in this proposal is that we are asking for it to be an impact study, and that we need to make sure that what you are doing gets the effect you want. For some users, and especially for many important users of society, whether business or public, it is not really the case that capacity is the most important thing, it is up-to-date. It's that you have a security. And when over 50 pst. Of those who are on the health network, actually have copper as an access point, it is well justified, Council of State, to be concerned. Or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e412	It goes without saying that it would not be appropriate to hit Norwegian health networks in any way as a result of this copper renovation. This means that there must be an alternative in place to allow the Norwegian health network to have uptime as usual before possibly taking out the lines on which the Norwegian health network is dependent to function. Similarly, we are concerned that there must be adequate alternatives in place, of course also for Norwegian public operators, before the copper network is refurbished and affects the relevant actors. This applies both to enterprises and households and, of course, to the public sector as well. I think we all agree that this technology shift is a good idea. That is how it is implemented in practice, which is the debate we have. Then I think the model we have chosen, where the actors actually build alternatives, is a good model, and not what the centre party here is talking about, that the state should take full responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e420	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e427	The Labour Party is in favour of modernisation. All over the country, many citizens and municipalities still have doubts about the lack of or poor broadband and mobile coverage. There are still an incredible number of people who have copper as their only solution. Some figures for 2019 Tøndelag say there are 31,000 subscriptions to a fixed phone. There are 50,000 broadband subscriptions, and 15 000 of them have other providers than Telenor. How many of these buttons 50000 broadband customers need government grants to build a new solution is still not quite clear. If it is the case that county councils have been told to give priority to broadband deployment in order to replace the copper network rather than to use broadband funding where there is still no coverage, this is even worse, and this is today's challenge. This has to be clarified. Safety alarms are another challenge, although IP-based solutions are now on full speed. When the government parties say that the expansion rate is increasing in broadband, and that it happens commercially, I would say that something is missing essential in this calculation. Where broadband is more important than road, both municipalities and county municipalities are using multiplely the amount of the State grant scheme. This is also public money and not commercial. They do this because the population is moving if they don't have stable and secure broadband access. When the farmer suddenly does not make the milk robot work because the copper network is not being replaced, but until it is closed, this is not in line with the promises of the Council of State. This case is about making the phase-out of the copper network consistent and about making a plan, so that the map matches the terrain. The inhabitants must be listened to. There are many of them who contact us and tell their story, that suddenly they don't have access to digital infrastructure because the copper network is shut down. It's on security and preparedness, and it's district enemy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e436	We are all concerned about basic preparedness. At the same time, priorities need to reflect this in order to be credible. Even I am a technology optimist and believe that new solutions are important to take the world forward. But for the change, we have to be careful, and phasing out without any new offer in place is unwise. 5G seems promising, but does the Council of State realize that it will be built throughout Norway? State councils themselves refer to the vulnerability of cable and power failure. Both residents and industrial interests in the districts are afraid of preparedness for phase-out of the copper network. Competition for the development of new offers and the unstructured development of fibre networks must be noted. In addition, phasing out the copper network could lead to a redundancy of broadband access. Norway is one of the very few countries that are planning to phase out the copper network. As late as 2016, a modernisation of the copper network was planned. The substitution, which in many places is based on mobile broadband, is not a good enough alternative to the copper network everywhere. The phasing out of the copper network, on the other hand, removes an important back-up solution. Being for new solutions does not mean being against today's well-established solution. Small margin traders depend on 100 pst. up-time and are at risk of loss if the copper network is phased out several times. If you think we should have a level playing field across the country, there must be more action behind the words. Today, when we have a working copper network, which is fully operational, we should be absolutely sure that the alternative solutions give us the necessary security before today's solution is phased out. The Gudbrandsdöln Dagningen writes today about Tina Lyslo and Åse Slätstuen in Skåbu, who got the copper network closed and lost the sumton on the phone without even being informed. Oppland Arbeiderblad writes today about schoolchildren who are not allowed to do their homework because of poor internet coverage, at Landheim just outside Gjøvik city. This should not be good enough for the Council of State. Asking the government to phase out the copper network consistently and to require Telenor to maintain and maintain the copper network anywhere until an adequate alternative is in place is a minimum. Something else is historyless when we know how important the expansion of the copper network was in its time. We just demand that we have a government that looks ahead, that ensures preparedness, and that preparedness is at the root before we make any changes. We're going to be technology optimists, but with the background of the knowledge and the good experience we've gained in developing the copper network once in a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e449	In Norway, 86 pst. by the population of high-speed broadband. That's a good cover. But the 14 pst. which remains, has little access with the first – or perhaps never. I live in a district state and know at the same time how dependent the districts are on having access to the network. Digital services are important and are becoming increasingly important for both businesses and individuals. The community can't actually live without it, as we've put it up. The working party is concerned that we should modernise Norway, and we are technology optimists. But we're also concerned that we're going to make sure that those who live less centrally keep their nets. For the Workers' Party, it is important that Telenor is required to maintain and maintain the copper network anywhere, until an adequate alternative is in place. We believe that this is a prerequisite for us to be able to get the whole of Norway. This is an important proposal, because people don't feel sure that the copper grid right where they live is being maintained. In Norway, the district population has some experience, namely that there are always some percentage of the population who are excluded when changes are made to the infrastructure. The representative Gunnes from the Left says that some parties are suspicious. Yes, Gunnes – if you live in District Norway, at least you have good reason not to be suspicious, but to be skeptical. It's experience-based.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e462	I just want to confirm that it is possible to live in District Norway and be optimistic as well. What we're really talking about here is strictly a proposal where the big difference between the parties is whether we want to conduct an impact study or not. So far, we've had a model for expanding broadband and mobile networks in Norway that's been based on a commercial model. This has proved to be a success. We are at the top of the world in this country in terms of both mobile and broadband coverage. And that model, the commercial expansion, has contributed to it – in combination with a grant scheme that also ensures that we have broadband expansion in the areas that it is not a commercial basis for expanding. We're not done with that. However, there is work going on, and through that grant scheme, there is increasing effort to ensure that there are ever new areas that will have broadband connectivity and mobile coverage in the years to come – including 4G coverage on the mobile network and, hopefully, 5G coverage in the long term, as far as possible. So that model is what's at the root of what we're actually at the top of the world in terms of digital coverage. Then it's amazing, I think – that SV wants to assess whether we're going to nationalize this, so far I can understand, from an ideology of some kind – that the Central Party would want a nationalisation of this strategy. It's completely incomprehensible to me. This is a model that actually works, with which we haven't been fully targeted yet, but which has actually given us the digital coverage it's done. So to the matter itself, which is about whether or not we're going to make an impact assessment. We have a system where Nkom is set to follow up this market. It is a tool that we ourselves have set up, which is based on ensuring sustainable competition in the postal and eco-system networks. Then we have to trust that Nkom actually does the job they're set to do, that's to follow this market and make sure it's sustainable competition. I don't think we disagree with the problem description either: there are challenges related to phasing out the copper network. But as late as January 6th this year it was announced that the pace of phasing out the copper network could also lead to unfortunate competitive situations in the market. What does Nkom do then? Indeed, they are going into and are going to take action – just to ensure that we have effective competition and to ensure that when Telenor then chooses to phase out the copper network in some areas, also in areas that matter to wholesale competition, as it is called, it is imposed that replacement products must be in place in order for this to happen. So I mean that the tool that is there – with Nkom, with the tools that we have, and with the model that we have based on for expansion – works.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e477	Enterprises and businesses in the districts provide feedback that phasing out the copper network could lead to less competition in the districts. New deployment of fibre networks is often not regulated by Telenor’s obligation to provide third-party access to the network. I suppose it's been mentioned as far back as here, too. In the interests of confidence that the decision taken in Telenor is correct, it is important that an impact assessment of the copper network is carried out. There's also an important point here. The copper network is important for social security and preparedness. Central infrastructure such as broadband is a natural monopoly, and it is therefore socio-economically reasonable that the public sector has a responsibility. It has therefore not been said that they are the ones that build up everywhere, but that they have a responsibility for the expansion and supply of broadband. The State that owns must then ensure that economic assessments do not conflict with the social mission. When I say it the way I say it now, I think most people understand what the Center Party puts in that comment. In its response to the Committee, the Council of State points out that the main task of the State is to provide a good framework for commercial operators. According to the view of the Centre Party, this testifies to a one-sided ownership policy. It is not possible to balance public responsibility with commercial interests, and unfortunately it is often urban and rural. That's still approx. 145000 business locations connected to the copper network in Norway and using it for activity-critical communication. Enterprises and the public sector usually use the copper line as primary access and in addition to a mobile backup. It's not the capacity they're after, it's the availability. This can also be seen in all tenders from large enterprises, where all requests are fixed as a primary line. We must not forget that. There are many who make it a requirement in their tender. The national emergency network is largely connected to the copper network. A new emergency network is planned, as I said, in 2022. Telenor is often built against Telenor's copper stations. The closure of the copper network will result in a consequence that is currently undetected. These alternative transport networks are critical to the national robustness of communication availability. Norwegian Healthnet is the core of digital Health Norway. In 2018, some 215 million unique messages were sent over the Health Network. These include references, epicrisis, lab responses, X-rays, etc. The health network is a network society with approx. 6 000 members. These must have a guarantee before the copper network is phased out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e494	I would first of all like to say that I both believe and believe that the Council of State is telling the truth when he has faith in the assurances he gets about uninterrupted access to the Internet. But that's not how reality is perceived out there. I said that in my introduction, and I stand firm on that. The reason why I take the floor is that today we still hear that under this government more high-speed networks are being built than ever. But in another matter that we have to deal with, Prop. 35 LS for 2019–2020, the so-called broadband extension law, is a graph that says something else. On page 15 a graph shows a massive expansion in the years 2005 to 2013, while the number of connecting surfaces under the current government. What this shows is that the expansion that is now taking place out there in the districts is much more expensive than the one that was in the past. So it's the most expensive areas left, but the government doesn't grant more money as the most expensive areas now need to be digitized. That's why we've set up 500 million in all our budgets in this period. kr for grants, while the government has now done what we in Rogaland call “much” up, and crawling up to half. It's not enough, it certainly showed the post to the representative of Leirtrø – it's the municipalities and county councils that take the biggest part of what's out of grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e501	It's a big commitment to the technology shift that we're about to go through. In that technology change, I am concerned that we should not have lower ambitions on behalf of the districts than what we have on behalf of Norwegian cities. When I hear many of the posts that are here today, you get the impression that it's not so important to get high-speed broadband for the last 14 pst, because we're going to maintain the copper network. Among other things, the representative Olsen spoke about the last 14 pst. The copper network is not a response for the last 14 pst. missing high-speed broadband. We must not have lower ambitions in Norwegian districts than we have in Norwegian cities, and this government is concerned that we should be on the side of people all over the country, but also that we should be on the side of the future. That's why we have to be part of this technology shift and make sure everyone gets to take part in the new technology, whether it's called high-speed fibre, called 5G technology, or it's called 4G. It was also asked if 5G is something that comes across the country. Well, Telia has said that they're going to build a nationwide 5G network by 2023, and then I'm going to tip that Telenor isn't going to be so much worse, and Ice says they're also ready to do this job. So here are many exciting opportunities both for Norwegian businesses and also for Norwegian households to get much better services, regardless of where they live in the country. Then it was said that it is not good enough when someone loses the connection without getting an alternative. I fully agree with that. But that's precisely why we're proposing universal service for basic broadband services, making this a right in line with water and electricity, and making sure that all businesses and all households, no matter where they are in the country, actually get broadband services if they want it. So the representative Langholm Hansen said that the government does not allow more money to expand in those areas where it is not commercially profitable to expand. Well, we've given more money. It's been escalating in the last few years. Now we're over a quarter of a billion in government contributions. What's also true is that that money is paired with other public money, and that's good. It is good that there is a spice layer between regions and municipalities and the state and businesses, and in particular that those who have the shoe on and know where it is printed can participate and determine exactly where the needs are greatest, where it should be developed first in a municipality where you have to roll out to everyone, but where everyone cannot get at the same time. That's the way it is. I'm glad we all agree that new technology is good. But then I am concerned that we also need to have high ambitions for how the conversion is to be carried out without people and businesses being harmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e514	I did not intend to speak, but I have to speak when the Council of State lets it hang in the air that the Workers' Party and the opposition generally do not have great ambitions for the development of the network in Norway. I said in my last post that we over our alternative budgets grant twice as much as the government, and if it indicates that the Workers' Party does not have ambitions, I think the Council should think about it again. We have great ambitions, and we're very clear that we're going for a digitalized society. That's the future. We're, as we say in our remarks, not afraid of new technology, we're afraid of the old one. But in that transition, it has to be made sure that it's connected all the way, and it's not everywhere. I have to remind the Council of State that I had to take up a case in the municipality of Sokndal as a representative of this pulpit in order for it to be dealt with. It was arranged after that. So we can't have it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e519	The representative Bengt Fasterale has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e524	Of course, we are concerned that there should be no lower demands for the districts than for the cities – I just have to make it clear. We are also concerned that more money needs to be allocated, and that it has to be done in different ways where there is no commercial basis and where the state has to take responsibility for lifting the last, whether it is 14 pst., 20 pst., or whatever it might be. What we have also mentioned in this debate is that there are differences between users. Some people are concerned about the ups and downs for people to get paid at their card terminal and get sent messages to the pharmacy about prescriptions, etc. These are the ones that are most concerned now and that we need to take care of. We need a guarantee that it's up-to-date until the options are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e530	I think fortunately we can say that we agree quite a lot in this room. It is a force, primarily for the Norwegian population, that will enjoy new technology as it is rolled out. It's been a long time, and the goal is to move forward quickly. I am also pleased that the representative of the Workers' Party explains that the Workers' Party is positive about digitisation at large, because their alternative budget gives you the impression of the opposite, where you do a big cut in consulting services that will, of course, hit ICT projects. Then there is the question of whether there are ICT projects in Nav or in the police, or where it must be you want to cut, but that it will be cut, there is no doubt about it. The Centre Party also has a similar cut in consulting services, as well as a targeted cut against the Digitalisation Directorate, which could threaten jobs both in Brønnøysund and in Leikanger. Of course, we're busy caring for the jobs in the districts of the Digitalisation Directorate, but here we might have a slightly different approach. But it is good that at least we agree that fiber and mobile technology are the future rather than copper networks. And then we might disagree a little bit about how the conversion is going to be done, but I think the important thing here is to follow up that Telenor actually keeps what they promise, and that people don't get hurt. We fully agree that uptime is going to be central to a great many actors, and we have to make sure that people and businesses and other important businesses do not get hurt in the transition phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e539	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e558	In the spring of 2017, there was an uprising after the government and then state council Vidar Helgesen led a management of wolf that was contrary to the decision of the Stortinge, because Helgesen did not comply with the agreed stock targets of the Stortinge. Among other things, a massive demonstration outside the Storting, with visitors from all over Norway focusing on a lack of follow-up to the wolf settlement. It was a very special day because several thousand people gathered outside the Storting – and it was not to demonstrate against anything the Storing did, but to demonstrate that the adopted policy of the Storing was to be followed. It led to a debate on the use of the law and the follow-up to the stockpiles of the Stortinge stockpiles for wolves. In the spring of 2017, Stortinget instructed the government in interpreting the Nature Diversity Act and stated clearly that it does not prevent the hunting of wolves when the stock target is reached, nor within the wolf zone. Now we have a new state council, and one would have thought that he was called «Ulvestuen», because the state council of Elvesuen has turned itself into the wolf's high shield and breaks – as Helgesen did – with the decision of the Storting, despite the clear instructions of 2017. He treats the wolf son as a reserve or an animal park. Only in the last few months have we seen that he has stopped hunting two flocks within the wolf zone, and he has set heaven and earth in motion to protect a genetically important wolf. At the same time, we have, for example: in the last week, a hunting dog has been caught by a wolf. Yesterday, children in Elverum had to be kept in school because of the wolf. These are the same areas in which hunting has been stopped. On 29 April 2017, the majority of Stortinget gave a clear signal to the Ministry of Climate and Environment in Innst. 257 L for 2016-2017: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Centre Party, point out that the debate following the presentation was held on 31 January 2017, where the Stortinget asked the Government by 10 March 2017 to promote a case on how the management of the wolf, including access to licensing, can be conducted in accordance with the decision of the Stortinge in Innst. [[2015-2016]] 330 S The majority indicates that the Storting through Innst. 330 S adopted the following stock targets for wolves in Norway: [[2015-2016]] ‘The stock target for wolves in Norway shall be 4 to 6 young people per year, 3 of which shall be healthful young people, including young people outside the wolf zone. Fowls of border revir shall be counted to a factor of 0,5.’;» In addition, the Committee wrote the following: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Centre, consider that regional policy considerations must be regarded as a significant public interest within the meaning of point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 18. The majority believe that if the wolf population has a negative impact on the rural policy objective of maintaining a widespread settlement in Norway, it can provide a basis for withdrawals. The majority would point out that a composite assessment of different factors must determine whether this condition is met.’» In addition, it says: ‘The majority would stress that the balance of interest that must be made under the Nature Diversity Act § 18, first paragraph, point (c) shall be of a dynamic nature. The majority believe that this implies that, during periods when the population is above the target population, the threshold shall be lowered to the extent that the conditions for killing in order to safeguard public interest are met.» The current State Council Helgesen said, among other things: the following when the matter was debated in Stortinget: ‘I can assure the Central Party that I am not going to take over the role of the courts in our state. Let me summarise some of the main points: In the proposition, which is being considered today, the government makes it clear that, according to its wording, § 18c can provide a basis for killing according to wider considerations. I mentioned some of them in my post, but the threshold is high. In today's setting, the Storting gives new assessments of the content of the law, how the law is to be understood. That's what they like to call post-work." The then state council Helgesen refused to distrust because his opinions were interpreted so that the department would now follow up the Storting's goal. Helgesen State Council was clear that neither he nor the department should take over the role of the courts. However, in the context of WWF’s actions against the State in respect of the 2017-2018 licence hunt, Oslo was very clear that the decision on the felling of the flocks in Julussa and Osdalen was not contrary to the condition of Section 18(c) of the Nature Diversity Act to take care of public interests of major importance. In the examination of WWF's claim for temporary enrichment, Oslo stated in his judgment: ‘The court considers this to be such that, by virtue of the very general wording of point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 18, the administration, in conjunction with the statements of the Storting, has a not insignificant margin of discretion to determine the public interest on the basis of which licensing falls within the meaning of point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 18. However, the Court of First Instance notes that the assessment of the existence of a public interest must be made for each individual decision on the conclusion of a licence.» Furthermore, the Oslo District Court judgment of 18 May 2018 stated in the same case: ‘The Court further considers that the assessment of whether the condition ‘public interest of material importance’ is met would be due to a judgment which the Court of Justice must be held to review. Reference is made, inter alia, to Rt. 2004 p. 1 092. To a large extent, there is a political question as to how the wolf population should be and how it should be managed, as long as Norway complies with its international obligations under the Berne Convention. The condition ‘survival of the stock’ depends on a professional judgement which the Court should also be withheld from review.’ However, in repeated decisions and interviews following the judgment, the Council of State of Elvesuen has fallen back on the same argument that the former Council of State of Helgesen had before the Stortingen clarification of what was in the decision of the Stortingen, because he points to a lack of basis for licensing in the law. He overlooks that court calling a not insignificant margin of discretion, and that wolf management is largely a political issue decided by the Storting, as the country's top democratic body. Both the Environment Directorate and the Ministry have concluded that withdrawals from the three flocks to which it was assigned within the wolf zone during the year’s licence hunt will not threaten the survival of the stock or impede the achievement of the target in 2020. The Ministry writes up to the following in the appeal decision: ‘The Ministry has also stressed that the level of conflict associated with the wolf population in Norway over a few years has been so significant that reducing the level of conflict must be considered to be a serious national interest, covered by regional policy considerations. Reducing the wolf population when we have been above the stock target for a number of years will, in the Ministry’s assessment, contribute to conflict mitigation and thus to the pursuit of regional policy interests, as well as to ensuring confidence in the management of predatory game.’ In spite of this, the government concludes that the condition of Section 18(c) is not met and that the killing permit in the year’s licence hunt must be withdrawn for two out of three flocks. This is really about people, and the pressure from the wolf is very high. As I mentioned in the introduction, we have several fresh examples in the past week: On 10 January, the hunting dog Milo was taken by the wolf in Outer Enebak. It is not very far from the Mango and Space Forest Viruses, for which the breeding permit has been refused. Last night, children had to be kept in a school in Sørskogbygda, Elverum. It's the same place that the Council of State has stopped looking for Letännaviret, because there's a genetically important wolf in the area. It is also quite disrespectful that the decision of the department on the end of the year did not come before New Year’s Eve. The deer adopted a licence hunt within the wolf zone on 6 September. Nevertheless, it will take more than three months before the department is able to decide whether or not the decision is being taken, and they will reply to the New Year's Eve, which is the day before the hunt is intended to begin. At least it is not anti-conflict. State Council Elvesuen's treatment of the wolf zone and Norwegian wolf management is reminiscent of a clean training of Stortinget's decision and the majority's wishes in Stortinget. I wonder how it may have been that the Council of State Elvesuen continues to use the same justification for converting the decision of the robbers on the killing of wolves within the wolf zone that the Council of State Helgesen did before the treatment of Innst. 257 L for 2016-2017. The Council of State is constantly leaning on the fact that the use of Section 18(c) is pure law, although I have now shown that the court also says that it is largely a political question. Then I have come to the questions: What is the reason why the Council of State Elvesuen does not make use of the not insignificant margin of discretion, as Mr. Oslo rightly points out that the department has to adopt the killing of wolves? And why does the Council of State still argue as Helgesen did before Stortingen's clarification in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e630	The size has decided that the management of wolves must take place within the framework of national and international legislation and current political leadership. This may involve demanding assessments. The first paragraph of point (c) of Section 18 of the Nature Diversity Act authorises the felling of wolves to ‘for general health and safety reasons or other public interests of essential importance’. In particular, the option of other material public interests provides for discretionary judgement. The preparation of the provisions is scarce. However, as the representative of Enger Mehl refers to, the majority of Stortinget has expressed their opinion on the understanding of the provision in the context of the examination of a legislative amendment proposal in 2017. These after-work provides guidance for the administration's discretionary judgements after the provision, and the government has placed great emphasis on the management of wolves. The Storting said here, among other things. the fact that, in the light of the nature diversity law, point (c) of the first paragraph of paragraph 18 of this Article, a specific assessment is to be made on a case-by-case basis and that it is likely that the wolf population will have a negative impact on national territorial policy considerations if withdrawals are to be permitted. The majority of the size also indicated that the balance should be of a dynamic nature. It implies that during periods during which the stock is above the stock target, the threshold shall be lowered to the extent that the conditions for killing for public interest purposes are met. It follows from the principle of geographically differentiated management that the threshold for felling shall be higher within the wolf zone. The size has underlined the importance of the principle several times. The dynamic management implies that this threshold is lowered, but the removal of wolves within the wolf zone shall continue to be assessed at a higher threshold than outside. The representative of Enger Mehl refers to Stortinget's leadership from 2017 and believes that the Natural Diversity Act does not prevent hunting for wolves when the stock target is met. This is not a correct description. The management of the size does not imply that the achievement of stocking targets alone allows for the extraction of wolves. The threshold to consider the conditions of the law to be met is lowered when the stock is above the stock target, but a specific assessment shall nevertheless be made in the individual case, inter alia. the impact of the population on rural policy considerations. It's a result of Storting's afterwork. It must also be emphasised that the Berne Convention does not open the way for it to be governed by a stock target, irrespective of the conditions of the Convention for killing. Similarly, the Nature Diversity Act applies. This was, among other things: underlined by the Ministry of Justice Legal Affairs in December 2016. It is true that Oslo has stated that the Court of Justice should be withholding from examining the judgement of the administration in these assessments. However, it is not the same as the fact that estimates of withdrawals from the wolf are purely political assessments. The Nature Diversity Act lays down legal frameworks that must be met. These limits are laid down both in point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 18 and in the other two conditions which must be fulfilled in order to allow access to wolf harvesting: the extraction must not threaten the survival of the stock and the purpose must not be satisfactorily achieved. In addition, Section 18 is designed to implement Article 9(1) of the Berne Convention. It must therefore be interpreted in the light of the Convention and the withdrawal of wolves must be in line with the legal framework. This was also underlined by the Court of Appeal, as it follows from the judgment in question that there is a major political issue of the size of the wolf population and how it is to be managed, ‘as long as Norway complies with its international obligations under the Berne Convention’. The leadership of the 2017 majority comments is emphasised in the management of the wolf. I would like, among other things: present the decision on the licensing of wolves within the wolf zone from December 2019. Here, the leaders of the Storting stand at the heart of the assessment of the basis of law. A dynamic management was established, as we were also above the stock target, and regional policy considerations were considered to be of major importance to the public interest. The first paragraph of point (c) of Section 18 of the Naturmanffold Act was also part of the foundation of the foundation in 2018 for the killing of the Sternåsflock within the wolf zone. This government opened in 2018 for the licensing of 26 wolves outside and 3 wolves within the wolf zone, and for 26 wolves outside and 6 wolves within the wolf zone in 2019. It is therefore not that the government does not find the basis for the withdrawal of wolves, but the wolf is a critically threatened and protected species, and withdrawal decisions must be in line with the legal framework imposed by the Berne Convention and the Natural Diversity Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e651	I have also read the decision of the government, which came on 31 December. I see that there is a lot of reference to the basis of the Storting, but the conclusion is not in line with what the Stortinget has adopted. It is said that taking down the population when there is too much wolf will be a significant national interest, which will fall under district policy considerations. Now we have a wolf population that has been above the stock for years. Frustration is very great both in the areas where there are wolf flocks, and also in the wolf zone, because the pressure is so high, and you feel that you are not being heard. And that's exactly what the department itself writes is going to be a national interest to do something about, namely, the conflict, and therefore, regional policy considerations. The threshold for felling wolves shall be higher within the wolf zone but shall be lowered once the stock target has been reached. Withdrawals should not threaten the survival of the population, but both the Directorate for the Environment and the Department themselves state that the withdrawals that the predators had set up do not threaten the survival of the population. The stock target is to be achieved, but the Environment Directorate and the Ministry also state that the extraction does not prevent the stock target from being reached next year. So when you make it clear, what's the Council of States afraid of? I wonder if he at all believes that the stock target should be met, because all that the council of State does in this matter, remembers the training of the agreed stock goal of the Storting, which the Stortinge gave clear instructions in 2017 that one should follow. So then I'd like to ask the government council to answer how he thinks we're going to get down to the stock target. What's missing for us to be able to get on the stock target?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e658	Wolf is a critically threatened species in Norway. At the same time, the population was 2 years ago at 10.5 young people. In 2018 it was 8 young people. So far this year – but it will probably increase – there are 5.5 young people. It is expected that at least one will be 7.5 young people, but there is uncertainty that the figures will not be confirmed until 1 June this year. The stock of wolves in Norway, based on the number of young people, has fallen in the last two years and also appears to have done so in 2019. The population in southern Scandinavia has also declined over the past few years, from an estimated slightly over 400 to around 380. As I explained in my post, we follow in our assessment up the decision of the Storting and the comments from 2017, but that is the same. The decisions we take shall follow up the decision of the Storting both in terms of the stock targets and the 2017 observations, but it must be within the legal framework provided by the Nature Diversity Act and the international commitments made by Norway under the Berne Convention. Then it's true that when we're above the stock target, it's been estimated that we've lowered the threshold within the wolf zone, although there's to be a difference between outside and inside the wolf zone. There shall be a higher threshold within the wolf zone. We've also focused on what's the overall assessment of the Secretariats of the Roof Wilderness Students. They have been particularly involved in the assessment of Lejänna, which is a stable revir that has been there for a long time. They've connected it to the overall consideration of conflict mitigation, as long as we're above the stock target. It's the overall assessment of this that makes us find that for Letännaviret, it's a basis for withdrawal. For the other two, we don't think it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e669	The debate we are now having on the management of wolves concerns a very fundamental question about who determines the policy in our country. The size has made clear decisions that have resulted in a large public presence in front of the Storting on two occasions. If this avoidance of following up the stock target continues, it is possible that it will continue – at least frustration is still great among those who had hoped that the Storting's clear objectives for stock management would be met. Not only had they hoped for it, they are in their full right to demand that it happens. Actually, Erna Solberg should have met here, at least in addition to Ola Elvestuen, for responsibility, it is clear that the Prime Minister in charge of this government must be involved. At first, it was Vidar Helgesen who failed to follow up the stockpiles and management that would take place in cooperation with the predatory wildlife students and in line with what they set up. It was not done, and so has still been done under the Council of State, Ola Elvesuen. In fact, it is not up to the government to compromise further, even if it is a party to the government that disagrees with what the Great Government has adopted. It's the majority that decides, and that has to be followed up. That is why the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party should also be involved in the debate here, which, together with the Workers' Party, was part of and left the basis for the majority that applies to the wolf administration in Norway today. It has to be followed up, we have a clear expectation of that. For us as elected representatives, it is important to take on board and understand that the reactions that are coming are based on real relationships. When the population in the last few years has grown twice as large as the size of the population has determined it to be, and, as the Council of State itself referred to, will still be above the size of what it has decided to be, it is quite natural that there will be reactions. It is not up to Ola Elvesuen as State Council to assess whether the population should be twice as large as the size of the population – or much larger or much larger. It is the responsibility of the Council of State to follow up on its compliance with the stock target adopted by the Stortinget. If there are any from the other parties who have participated and formed the basis of the majority – that is, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party – who are listening to the debate, it would have been very nice if they could also participate and give their opinion on whether the stock target, which has been democratically adopted here in the Chamber, determines how the management of wolves in Norway should be. What's the matter with that stock target is that it's a compromise. It's a compromise formed by multiple views and assumes that it's going to be, and will be, something wolf in Norway, but it has to be managed, as we do with every other nature. That's the starting point for the thinking of the majority, and of course it's also people's expectation that it's going to be followed up in the next few years. With that, I want more people to come and draw, and we'll find out if it's actually the majority of the Stortinges that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e692	We have a rich nature in Norway. There are great values here that we need to manage, develop and secure for the future. The opportunities for grazing and Norwegian food production on our natural advantage in the field depend, among other things, on: of predators. It's a shame the government doesn't recognize that grazing animals are the best way to produce meat and short-range food. For the last six years, we've marked a Right in Government hiding behind law enforcement, and then a Left State Council with more wolves in other agricultural areas, such as Land, Hadeland and Toten, than in more generations. The rapprochement was a cross-political compromise that is still being watered out. Being responsible for the reintroduction of a huge wolf population in Norway does not seem to the government to want to do so, but that is exactly what they are doing. Setting up law and formulations on public assessments against individuals and communities who have been given their livelihoods is insane. This is politics. The Courts also point out that this is a policy. Principle discussions must be part of this. For example, we need to be aware of the extent to which society should be based on rights and clarifications in the courts or on a citizen’s view of active citizens who may influence and take part in decisions where the influence of elections is great. What we politicians stand for and do should be linked to party programmes and principles we go to elections. You can't stand in the Storting and owe it to law enforcement as a basis for administrative practices when you control the government yourself. Another example is the place predators should have in our nature. No matter how you turn it around, the human being is at the top of the food chain. Ecology suggests that we interact with all the other species we have around us. Then I want to ask the questions: how much space should the wolf have compared to other predators? How should the behaviour of wolves be assessed against stock targets? Do we have areas to manage a full wolf population? Is it a willingness of payment, either in the agricultural sector or among the population, to pay the price of food with frequent guessing and/or predatory losses? When we know at the same time that the world's food production has to increase by 60-70 pst. in the near future, what role should Norwegian food production and the resources we have to manage play here? Last week the NHO Inland organised a collection of different interests, including: the founder behind Findmy, Marit Mjøen Solem, who offers electronic tracking of, among others: grazing animals, talking. She is among those who have sat down to help farmers get a simpler everyday life. She refers to good experience from African countries, including the United States and Japan. the tracking of lions, so that guessing can control the grazing animals away. She also reflected on the balance between predators and food safety. In fact, food safety in Norway is too poor, and we are unable to take advantage of the potential where we are taking advantage. Technology can only help a little bit on the way. At the end, it's about how we manage the areas we have at our disposal. How much feed raw materials and food are we going to import? I believe that more of our agricultural areas should have been used for fruit and vegetable production, where we see a large increase in demand. Governments talk a lot about a sustainable wolf population, but forget the larger picture related to sustainability. For example, there are a number of red-listed plant species that live in grazing areas, which are now at risk of being lost if the grazing animals also disappear. The carbon footprint related to one kilogram of meat produced with grazing resources is completely different from if the animals had only gone in and eaten power feed. It has also been shown that the release of gases from animals when they are grazing, the cycle they are at, has a better climate impact than you might think. I want a sustainable food production, but in order to get it, the preconditions actually have to be in place to make use of the field for grazing, because it's just grazing animals that come with us and make us have a good food security in Norway. But then the wolf must also be fought down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e711	There are some things that are recurring in Stortinget, among others. Our game management, not least linked to the wolf. It's not very strange, as we have a state council that, in my opinion and my opinion, now also operates with a lot of approximateness to what has been the Greatness's very clear decisions and assumptions in relation to the wolf. If we are to succeed in the two-part objective of our game management, we are totally dependent on the creation of trust in the administration, the credible use of the local knowledge that exists, and the actual ability of the predators to follow up the decisions that are made there – that one does not experience every year that they are parked in this way. What's strange is that I heard the Council of State explain that what the Storting has decided in terms of the number of juveniles associated with the wolf is roughly, that there's an interpreter there. I'm a little surprised that the Council of State can approach such a clear case in the Storting in the way he actually chooses to do it. In the context of the examination of this matter, the Energy and Environment Committee presented the Innst. 330 S for 2015–2016, where the majority – not including the Left – wrote the following: ‘The majority will point to the need for a new stock target because no agreement has been reached with Sweden on the joint management of the Swedish-Norwegian wolf tribe. The majority believe that the stock target should be based on the actual number of juveniles per year.» So in the note, it says "should". Furthermore, I would like to refer to the decision taken by Stortinget under II in the vote: ‘The stock target for wolves in Norway shall be 4 to 6 young people per year, 3 of which shall be healthful young people, including young people outside the wolf zone. Fowls of border revir shall be counted at a factor of 0,5.’;» More clearly, it is not possible to file a decision in Stortinget concerning the wolf management. There is no room for interpretation. There shall be 4-6 young people per year, writes the Stortinget – without any ambiguity related to it. This is because I am amazed that the Council of State can stand on this pulpit and to the degrees approximate the decision of the Storting. The question is therefore whether the Council of State can now explain how he can manage to circumvent such a clear decision in the Grand Duchy that the stock of wolves should be 4-6 young people per year – for that is what he is actually choosing to do. The stock target is now well above 4-6 young people per year. What the Council of State is about to do — he has already done it repeatedly — is to doubt administration, to create an opposition, a strong opinion, which is opposed to the kind of government the Council of State chooses to practice and which is not in line with the decision of the Storting, which, moreover, the Council of State, when he was a prime minister of the Left, was strongly opposed. But he got the majority against him – a majority that intended to create credibility and trust in government. So now, with the practice he chooses, the Council of States can once again create doubt, uncertainty and, not least, disgust about the actual decisions taken in the Storting, which are clear and clear, and which the Council of States should be elegantly fulfilling instead of trying to argue against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e732	I would like to join in a little bit with what the representative of Aasland said, and which I believe the Council of State should explain, that is why he will not deal with the unimaginably clear decision that the Storting made just a few years ago, and which gives no special room for interpretation of how to come down to the goal of the Storting. It is clear that we all respect the fact that Elvestu, as the representative of the Left at the time, was against it, but a clear majority in the Storting was in favour of that objective. It is quite remarkable that today's government cannot deal with what the Storing has decided. It is also quite remarkable that the Right and the Progressive Party are completely absent from all debates on this issue. There is no doubt that today we are far above – we are between 8 and 8.5 coal, so we have to go down to 4 and 6. What we should have done first of all is that during the winter's turbulent act we had taken out the reefs in Manyen and Rømskog, as the predators correctly proposed and decided, and on which the government then received a complaint. And then when they got a complaint about it, they waited until New Year's Eve before they decided at all whether or not to take out the two giants. That in itself is a rather disrespectful attitude, both to those who have been affected by these issues and to the decisions of the Storting. There is no discussion of Storting’s decision in what the Council of State has decided not to take out the two rivals. On the contrary, there is an assessment of the question that belongs to before the Stortinget made a broad decision on what should be the stock target for wolves in Norway. So, like the representative of Aasland, I'd like to ask the Council of State to explain it. I think this is a very important issue for everyone in this Chamber. Unfortunately, it doesn't look exactly like this when you look at the parts that are represented in the hall per now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e743	I don't know how much we've gotten out of this interpellation, but I think it's pretty serious that the council refuses to answer yes to whether he follows the goal. He really has to do that, because it's an instruction from the Storing that the Council of State is bound by. The opinions of the Council of State during the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee on 25 November are in direct contradiction to what Mr Habsburg has said. The Council of State opinion was: ‘In the wolf zone, the damage potential is very low. In that case, public interests are essential for evaluation. Then it's whether this is strong enough to take off, which will be an assessment. It is a legal assessment and not a political assessment.» However, the Court of First Instance has said that the assessment of ‘public interest of substantial importance’ in Section 18(c) is due to a judgment which the Court must be held to review, because it is largely a political question. When will the Council of State begin to deal with the rules? Governments are creating an incredible number of conflicts with their handling of this matter. I would like to refer again from the decision of 31 December on licensing within the zone, where the department itself writes: ‘The Ministry considers that the level of conflict associated with the wolf population in Norway over a number of years has been so significant that reducing the level of conflict must be considered to be a serious national interest, covered by regional policy considerations.’ In fact, the only way to reduce the conflict properly is to follow the stock target. We have to get down to the stock target. We need a government council that says, "Yes, I'm actually working to get down to the stock target." Now trust is on a stock level. It just creates more conflict. When local votes are not heard, when the robbers, who are the local democratic anchoring, are overrun when the hunt is stopped over a low shoe, when what is important to the local population in the wolf zone is not heard, and when the council refuses to deal with a clear message from the Stortinget in 2017, as both the representative Arnstad and the representative Aasland have said, what Stortinget said is not to be misunderstood. The stock target is a shell target. It is absolute, and the instructions contained in the comments clearly state that the Council of State should follow in the further management of the wolf. They're also very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e763	For me, it's amazing to hear the representative of Aasland talk about that it's kind of an interpreter. What I referred to was the population development we have, which goes down in southern Scandinavia, and the number of young people in Norway has fallen in recent years. Then I would like to remind you that in terms of the balanced objective of the predatory game management and grazing industry, the number of losses of sheep and lambs to predatory game is halved from the period when the Senterparteen and the Workersparteen put with government power in Norway. I refer to the majority comments from 2017, but I also expect the Stortinget to believe that I should deal with the law as a State Council, with the Nature Diversity Act, which was also adopted when the Workers' Party and the Centre were placed with government power. It will be alarming if the Workers' Party believes that we should not deal with international obligations under the Berne Convention. As I explained, within the wolf zone there is no damage potential, so Section 18(b) does not apply. One sheep was taken last year. It was taken ten tamrein, but no one inside the wolf zone to the wolf, last year. Then we have just highlighted Section 18(c) with the reasons that exist from the secretariats who have gone into this, but also with what is of major importance for regional policy and other public interests, and we find that for Lejänna there is sufficient justification for withdrawals, but not for the Many and Roman Forest Reviruses. Roofers have not discussed whether the reasons justifying the decision on killing could have been achieved by other means. It is also a requirement under the Nature Diversity Act that the purpose cannot be satisfactorily achieved. That assessment has not been made for the Manhood and Space Forest Regiment, but it has been made for the Letienna Regiment. In addition, the robbers have not taken into account the opinion of the Naturvårdsverket that Sweden does not want to extract from the Rømskog Reviret, which is a border revironment. It is important for us that there is a process with Sweden that is real, and we cannot see that the denominators have made any attempt to reach agreement with Sweden on the Rømskog Revirate. There is a little of the background to the response to the complaint, as well as the fact that no concrete assessment has been made as to whether the purpose can be achieved in another satisfactory way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e776	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e790	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Söviknes on his appointment as Minister for the Elderly and Public Health and, at the same time, to welcome him to the first debate in the Grand Duchy in a new role. Before Christmas, it was found that the Evening Post has revealed 13 000 aberrations related to violence in Norwegian nursing homes last year. This includes both physical and mental violence and deals with both minor and very serious incidents, with both co-hazards and employees who have been affected by the cases of violence, threats and detoxification. After the disclosures, we also received feedback from Stortinget about events that have occurred in the care of the elderly. It has made a strong impression on me. It is quite brutal to recognize that it is not a matter of course that you are safe in a nursing home. An employee told us that she had averted a sexual assault on a fellow resident in the dementia department. It is so serious, and we owe those who have ended up in such situations, that it is said loud in this room. According to Sykepleien, one in ten nurses have seen abuses in the care of the elderly. Most of these cases involve inappropriate touching and kissing. A few also report exposure and rape. One of the investigators says: ‘I have no doubt that there is a greater acceptance of violence, bullying, sexual harassment and abuse in hospitals than in schools and kindergartens. But this isn't a politician or anyone else knows about it." Employees who work in the care of the elderly have tried to say from them for many years. But have we heard well enough after? Employees say that they experience increasing pressure on staff, while being held responsible for increasingly ill patients and residents. It's not possible to run faster, the employees say. The only thing that can help now is that you increase basic staffing, so that they're more at work, they tell us. There is a frustration over politicians who put the floodlights on wine in hospitals, while the employees are disappointed that the residents may have to wait half an hour to get help to go on do. They are more concerned with the basic needs. The trade unions point to increased staffing, more full-time jobs and increased skills as the necessary tools to overcome the serious situation in Norwegian elderly care. We in the Workers' Party support this line. We believe that there is a need for a power cap for increased staff in the care of the elderly. We are concerned that the recruitment standards in kindergarten and school, which are not fully funded, put even greater pressure on the care of the elderly. Because when an increasing proportion of the municipal budget is tied up by manning standards in other sectors, the health that has to take account of the bill becomes. At a cross-political seminar organised by the Health Committee some time ago, the councillor in Stavanger challenged us on just this: Do you really understand how much pressure is put on health when the growth area is locked up in manning standards? It's an incredibly important question for us to take over. One of the tools that has made a difference in the municipal health budget is the grant to day-time activities places for people with dementia. Together with the rest of the opposition and the Christian People's Party – before they joined the government – we were given a majority to increase the state's share from 30 p.m. to 50 pst. But already after the first year of increased rate, the government terminated the grant scheme. From the new year onwards, the grant has been included in the municipal framework, while municipalities have been given a statutory obligation to provide day-to-day activities for people with dementia. Thus, the municipalities have once again received a claim that is not linked to the financing from the state. How does this really relate? Well, the municipalities are only halfway to the goal of 9 200 day activities for people with dementia. That's the level the government has taken on when they include the grant. The legal requirement to which the municipalities must relate is not very close to being fully financed – it is in fact only half-financed. The phasing-out of the grant scheme will remain one of the largest losses in the time of Sylvi Listhaug as Minister for the Elderly and Public Health. Do we dare hope that the new minister will clean up? In the government budget for 2020, the government presented its weakest financial approach to free income in the municipal sector, with a real growth of only 0.3 pst. It's the lowest growth any government has ever presented in the last 15 years. The government's arrangements do not respond to the challenges facing municipalities. The budget for the current year has applied a triple click to the municipalities: Very low income growth means that many municipalities have to cut service provision. It is cut into schemes, so that municipalities have to take a greater part of the bill, or the municipalities get orders and tasks that are not fully financed. The government has restricted the ability of municipalities to raise their own income for property tax welfare contributions. Let's go back to measures that are not fully financed. This makes the local economy even more under pressure. An example of this is the Top Finance Facility for Resource-Required Services. In the 2020 budget, the Government proposes to reduce this scheme by an additional 350 million. kr. In total, local government own-funding in this scheme has increased by about 1 billion. kr in the last few years. Another example is that redundancy benefits and social assistance are likely to be underfunded by the fact that municipalities receive higher social assistance costs than they are compensated for. Local government expenditure in the care sector has also increased more in recent years than population development suggests. When the municipal councils from the government are weak, it means extra tight municipal budgets. The structure of the government does not equip the municipalities for the growing need within the care area. In addition, inclusion in the grant for day-time activities is provided to residents with dementia, which I have already had. Then we come to the question that lays the basis for today's interpellation: With this backstop – how will the municipalities manage to take the necessary promise in the care of the elderly when the government has delivered the tightest budget to the municipalities in 15 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e835	First, I would like to thank the representative Moflag for his congratulations on his new office. Of course, I look forward to a good cooperation with the Health and Welfare Committee and the Storting in a very important subject area. I am pleased that the evening post has set the spotlight on the challenges of domestic violence. The survey shows that the challenges are even bigger than what we've known in the past. Now we also see that a new NTNU study shows that many employees in hospitals have either seen other exercises, or even practiced, assaults or neglects of the elderly in nursing homes. We cannot live with our elderly being subjected to violence and abuse. It is particularly serious and alarming when it comes to vulnerable elderly people living in nursing homes who are unable to tell them what is happening. Nor should we accept violence against employees in the care services. It should be safe to go to work in the care sector. Parents in nursing homes must feel safe, and the relatives must experience that their loved ones are being well cared for. This government has already done a lot to improve quality, competence and capacity – what I would like to mention as the three Ks in the care services. One has focused on the quality reform Life for life, Care Plan 2020, Dementia Plan 2020 and Competence Plan 2020 – to mention something. We have also strengthened the municipal sector by about 30 billion. kr since this government joined in 2013. The sector has had good profits, and the number of municipalities registered on the ROBEK list is historically low. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. Unemployment is low, and new jobs are created in both rural and urban areas. In recent years, as a result of this — and changes in corporate taxation — municipalities have had significantly more tax revenue than budgeted. When things are going well in the Norwegian economy, it is important to keep spending on the state budget under control, and it is clear that there are also some consequences of this in the municipal sector. However, in 2020, a real growth in free revenues of 1.3 billion is envisaged. kr to the local government sector. There is a growth that covers both the increase in costs due to changes in population composition and the increase in pension expenditure, and some of the government’s main efforts are proposed to be covered in the growth of free income. We have also announced that the municipal sector can expect a VAT increase of 4.9 billion in 2019. kr. VAT growth in 2019 will benefit all municipalities. Therefore, the municipal sector enters 2020 with a good financial basis. The municipalities have a wide range of tasks to solve. The representative Moflag was involved in the large growth and care sectors. The government shall provide a sound and predictable local economy in which the municipalities have sufficient income to perform the tasks and so that the municipalities can make priorities for the benefit of their citizens. Within the framework available to the municipalities, it is for each local authority to give priority to the different objectives. We believe that the government has done well to facilitate this by strengthening the municipal economy during this government period. I fully agree with the representative Tuva Moflag that good competence is essential to identify and follow up older people who have been subjected to violence and abuse. This government has therefore worked systematically to strengthen the knowledge and competence of employees in the municipal health and care service. We're using over 1.5 billion. kr on Competencelift 2020. It contributes to a highly professional health and care service and enhances the competence of employees in violence and abuse. With grants from Competence Grant 2020, nearly 14 000 care staff have taken part in basic or continuing training and more than 70000 employees have taken part in continuing training only in the period 2016-2018. Figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show an increase in annual work in municipal care services of 10,000 annual works in the period from 2013 to 2017. Statistical Central Bureau changed its method of calculation of annual work in 2019. The changes between 2017 and 2018 are therefore difficult to compare, but a recalculation of the figures shows that there has been an annual growth from 2017 to 2018 of 2.4 pst. Figures from the SSB also show that the proportion of health and social education in care services is increasing. It's now at 72,3 pst. – 2017 numbers – versus 71.4 pst. in 2013. The Government has decided to replace Competencelift 2020 with a new leverage for the municipal health and care services at the end of the current plan at the end of this year. A new level of competence will be provided in the Ministry of Health's budget for 2021. The government’s efforts to combat violence and abuse have also increased efforts to strengthen general knowledge of violence and abuse, both in the population and in services. Among other things, the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress has developed an electronic guide to the work of health and care services against violence and abuse. In the government’s Dementia Plan 2020, we have focused on increasing the competence of services through, among others,: Demensorgens ABC. This includes knowledge of environmental treatment to prevent, and not least to reduce, anxiety and anxiety and thus to create well-being and quality of life. Furthermore, a pilot project for the management of violence and abuse against vulnerable adults is under way. The TrygEst programme is now being tested in 12 municipalities and urban areas in the period 2018-2020 and will contribute to the detection and prevention of abuse. Older people are an important target group in this programme. Unfortunately, research into hospital abuse has been limited. The Research Council has therefore allocated 15 million. kr from 2017 to 2020 for a multi-method study on violence and abuse against elderly patients in Norwegian nursing homes. The first results of the study have been recently published and show that many hospital staff have either seen other exercises, or even practiced, abuse or neglect of the elderly in nursing homes. These studies will further provide an important knowledge base for policy-making. Good management is also important to focus on. Good management is essential for improving services and working actively with quality improvement and patient safety. In order to ensure leadership competence in the service, we have increased the allocation of national leadership training for primary health services. Systematic work on preventing and averting domestic violence is also a matter of good governance. The management of the municipality and of the individual nursing home is responsible for ensuring that residents of hospitals are not subjected to violence. It requires procedures, and it requires systems. Management must have an offensive approach. We therefore amended health legislation from 1 January 2018 to clarify that the services have a responsibility at system level to prevent, detect and avert violence and sexual abuse. Regulation on management and quality improvement in healthcare makes it clear that the responsibility for the soundness and functioning of the management system at all levels lies with top management. It is the top management that is responsible for the continuous planning, implementation, evaluation and correction of its activities. In addition, management shall, at least once a year, systematically review and assess the entire management system against available statistics and information on the activities, in order to ensure that it functions as intended and contributes to the improvement of the activities. In the 2020 allocation letter, the Directorate-General for Health will be mandated to identify violence incidents in hospitals. We need more knowledge. In addition, in 2020, the population shall provide an assessment of the extent of violence in hospitals in their counties and the follow-up and involvement of aberrations of violence and abuse against residents. Furthermore, the county councillors will provide examples of municipalities that are working well on this issue, so that we can learn across the municipal borders. I look forward to an important debate in the follow-up to this article on a serious topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e879	I thank you for the response and feedback from the Minister for Older People and Public Health. It is clear that we share the concerns related to what has emerged in the Evening Post article series, and that we also share the description of how serious these events are. But we probably don't quite agree when it comes to the attitude about whether the municipalities get a good enough framework to do the tasks that this then entails. KS has been very clear in its feedback on the government's budget for the current year. They point out that the budget is tight and that the action space will be reduced from 2019 to 2020. We believe that what the Council of State refers to here is not enough to ensure the quality and safety of Norwegian elderly care. The Labour Party believes that we need to step up staffing in both nursing homes and home services, both because it has been strictly staffed already and in order to meet the large increase in the number of older people in the next few years. It is important that there are enough staff to offer good and varied activities to people at home, preferably through cooperation with other actors. For example, the working party has 20 million. kr more in our alternative budget to re-establish the cultural spa, which is important for creating both content and tranquility in a nursing home. We believe that the new Minister for Older People and Public Health must clean up after its predecessors and ensure that the grant scheme for day-time activities places for people with dementia is reestablished. A legal requirement of the State that is only half-financed is unheard of. Finally, we believe that new tools and support mechanisms are needed to provide a good offer to people who need special protection. Four out of five people living in hospitals have dementia, and for some, the diagnosis is that they change their personality in the course of the disease, and many become unexplained, either that they become unexplained and continue to be so, or that they are unexplained during a period of the disease. Then it is incredibly important that co-habiters and employees are safeguarded in their everyday lives. I agree with the Minister's focus on leadership. Leadership is important, but we can't just hide behind management either, because it doesn't help if you never have that good management if you don't have enough employees to see, to be there. It's all about having enough people. When you have to wait too long to get out of bed, to get on the do, and when there are not enough employees to avert a possible assault or a violent incident, you just get on the way with leadership. We also need more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e896	It is quite right that the representative, Mr Moflag, stresses that crewing is important. But it's not important alone. Manning will always be a major need for care services, and we face a relatively big challenge in the healthcare system as a whole if we look at the two decades ahead of us. The number of economically active persons in relation to over 67 years of age will range from approx. 6 to 3 in 15 years, and everyone in the professional community agrees that you cannot get out of the situation you are facing with increased needs in health and care services. In addition to good ground personnel, we need to focus on the right manning, i.e. the competence relationship, which I was in the main post. In addition, other responses to care services need to be considered. Research and development need to be more involved, prevention needs to be more widely worked, and volunteering needs to be more involved in care services. In addition, it is also important that we work with the physical means of shielding and organizing that the representative was involved in. Now there is an extensive expansion of new health homes and places with good luck. The government has focused on small is good, having homely and transparent housing units with direct access to the outdoor area, which can cause less anxiety, anxiety and depression. Furthermore, it will contribute to better orientation, mobility and social contacts, and it could reduce the use of drugs. It is a requirement through the investment grant that the buildings should be arranged for connection to technology, and it may be, for example: access control that prevents the occupants from opening faulty doors and entering other occupants’ rooms. I would like to ask the House Bank to assess whether it should do more in this field and make demands for this type of solution in the continuation. Many municipalities out there have established their own protected units and take seriously the situation of dementia and increasing levels of leakage. I would also like to comment briefly on the local economy. Yes, there is a relatively low growth from the original budget for 2019 to 2020, but the VAT revenue that has now been carried over several years, also in 2019. Let me then stress that the net operating surplus in the local government sector from 2016 until 2018 has been 4,0 pst., 3,8 pst. and 2.6 pst. – thus significantly above what is considered to be a good municipal economy of 1,75 pst. in net operating surplus.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e907	13,000 deviations in old age care are serious — a discrepancy that is often about violence, both against employees and against other elderly people. And this is just the top of the iceberg. We know that there are far more events than what is being reported. Growing old should not be a bad experience. Sending their parents or grandparents to an institution must feel safe. Working at an institution needs to feel safe. Today, many people don't have it like this. It's serious. It's good that the government now says it's going to map the situation. For SV, it has almost become a tradition, an annual exercise, to promote a proposal to identify the extent to which older people’s human rights are violated. It has been voted down every year, over and over again. Now we've promoted it again. I hope SV will be supported this time. But screening is not enough. We need more people at work, so it's possible to calm down the guy who's worried because he's starting to forget, so that she who's lonely gets someone to talk to, so that we make sure that everyone gets on do when they need it, and get food they can eat, food they like. That's a good goal from the senior minister, but no goal to get more people to work. Good managers and knowledge are important, but if the hospitals don't get more people to work, they can't help any more people. Even I'm a visiting friend of an older man. What he says about his everyday life at the institution is not good. He tells about the lonely elderly who get isolated, about the elderly who need to get out in the fresh air, go to the theater and have a good conversation, and for many of them it feels like they're children, since they can't use their knowledge to help other people. The employees will help, but they don't have time. SV has once again proposed a recruitment standard in the care of the elderly. It's high time. If we are to ensure a decent, safe and good old age, we must understand that we cannot be careful about savings. I hope the Council of State understands that too. We need more people at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e920	I can agree with the previous speakers that sometimes more people at work may be necessary, but that is not always that in itself will solve problems. We know that there is a nursing home with much the same crew, where one has a lot of problems and some of the staff spend too much time in the coffee room and reading the paper, while the other is better organized, has better management and does not have the same problems. This will vary from institution to institution, so I don't want to agree that only more staffing itself is the solution. It also has something to do with the management of the individual home, and it has something to do with the management of the municipality, and what to pay attention to. I am pleased that the Council of State has promised to examine the claims in the evening post much more closely and get a better basis for discussing this. I would also like to mention that, in addition to management, the attitudes and competences of employees will also be important in this context. Competence can be several things – not only that you are a trained nurse, but that you also know a little about laws, regulations, regulations and what an employee can do, and what he or she can't do. It may have something to do with attitudes, and therefore it is important to look at the competences of those working in institutions. The interpellation states that ‘there are 13,000 non-conformities related to the use of violence in the care of the elderly. The deviations relate to violence, threats and deportation against other co-habiters or employees.’;» I have received a number of enquiries after the evening post wrote about this. One of the questions is, what happens to the employees who have committed violence against those who are residents and patients themselves? One of the claims I read about was that a caregiver had lost his mouth on a caregiver and said "keep your mouth shut," because he might have been exaggerating. Is this, of course, an illegal and criminal act of violence reported by the municipality, or is it not? Of 13 000 acts, there must be a violation of Norwegian criminal law or other laws, and it must be that they should perhaps have been reported for investigation by the prosecution authorities. I would like to ask the Council of State whether this has been a theme in the department so far, whether it has been a topic that has been discussed. It is in our society that prosecution authorities often initiate investigations when they read something in the newspaper or experience things. Here, the prosecution authorities also have a separate responsibility to assess an investigation to see if criminal offences have been committed. We know that the same is true in the event of a breach of the Work Environment Act overtime. There are several thousand breaches detected in the Municipality of Oslo without anyone having reported or investigated. A private individual who managed a company and was violated the Work Environment Act received unconditional prison sentence and was reported automatically. The case has just been in Borgarting law, and we'll see what the verdict is. My point is that it must not be that all public servants are exempt from investigation and prosecution if they commit crimes. It has to be equal to whether you work in the private sector or in the public sector. This requires competence and the training of those who work in institutions, emphasising what you can do and what you can't do, and what you can't do, and what is punishable. I think that's a topic, because I've had some enquiries like: Does it ever happen that someone who does something wrong in public is being punished? The same applies to Nav. What about those who work in different departments, in Nav or in directorates – do they get researched to see if, in addition to having made mistakes, they may also have made some criminal mistakes? I would ask the Council of State to put the search light on the purely principle that even those who work in public, if they commit a violation of criminal law or other laws, must be able to face reactions similar to what happens to employees in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e941	In my summary, I want to focus on staffing, which has been an important key in today's debate. It is absolutely right that you cannot man out of the problems that lie ahead of us in the care of the elderly. This is simply not going to work when you see the number of working people and the number of older people in the context. Clearly, there are opportunities here, with new technologies, digital surveillance, etc., which allow individual employees to be present for more residents at the same time. Of course, we have to take advantage of those possibilities. But at the same time, it doesn't mean that manning isn't part of the solution. I believe it is urgent to have the working day of elderly workers less burdensome, both for the employees and, of course, for the residents. Feeling that you are stretching is vital to your well - being at work. I think we can recognize that in all of them. What the senior care workers want most is several colleagues, who feel that they can offer a really good treatment to the residents for whom they are responsible, that they must not run to the next patient while they are really not finished in the room they are in. It's also an important part of the solution. Then I want to pick up the thread in what Carl I. Hagen was inside. It is quite clear that some of the things that have been reported and revealed, through both the Evening Post article series and Sykepleien, that many of these conditions are punishable. Actually, it's amazing how little we've heard about criminal cases related to this area. I referred before the representative Hagen came into the room instead of a study that the Norwegian Nurses' Association has done among nurses, which shows cases of both nakedness, kissing, touch and also rape in the nursing homes. These are serious, criminal incidents that should have been investigated, and as it is really surprising that no more attention has been paid to the rest. So I share the representative's call to the Council of State to find out a little bit about how this has actually been followed up and investigated, because here it's not just about deviations, here it's about criminal matters that we have to take on the highest seriousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e952	First, to the representative Wilkinson, who was on document 8:24 S for 2019-2020, SV’s draft representative related to human rights and manning standards. There will be a detailed response to the Committee's work on the draft document 8 from the Council of State during the week. Then I want to grasp what was said about criminal or possible criminal offences. The government has now amended the law, so that the health and care services in the municipalities are obliged to send notices of serious incidents to the State Health Authority. But it does not relieve the municipalities of a responsibility to report serious facts that they believe may be a violation of the law and that may be subject to criminal prosecution. This is once again a management responsibility, and here I believe it is a clear and clear top management responsibility, over – in practice – those with departmental management responsibility or health care management responsibility in the municipal sector directly in the care and care service. It's about councillors, and it's about political leadership in each municipality. Based on what is underlined by several representatives in this debate, I would like to ask the Health Directorate and the county councillors to include the perspective of the job that is now being done, and simply make an assessment of whether several of the issues that have been revealed and reported further, should also have been reported to the police for any investigation and prosecution. Then I want to stress that the year we now go into, 2020, is an excellent opportunity for local politicians in every municipality, newly elected local government, to go into and discuss care services in general. Living the whole life-reform is now within its second year. The regional and national support apparatus is now in place. Now each municipality is to monitor and analyse its needs and discuss this local policy, with municipal government decisions at the end. This provides a good opportunity for local politicians to take ownership of care services, in line with the fact that they have taken ownership of the growing-up sector, in terms of school and kindergarten. The focus of parental care will be in the course of 2020. This will allow local authorities to discuss how to address both the manning challenge, which the entire municipal sector shares, and also the other elements that this debate has raised, in terms of good and worthy care for the elderly and the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e965	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e975	The size is ready to go to voting on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e1040	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Bengt Fasteraune on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to require Telenor to maintain and maintain the copper network until an impact assessment is carried out.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the importance of national and state ownership of the digital communications infrastructure in Norway, respectively.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e1076	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to investigate how state ownership in Telenor can best contribute to the achievement of Norway’s security and preparedness policy objectives.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e1093	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e1101	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the government to complete the phase-out of the copper network.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Government to require Telenor to maintain and maintain the copper network at all locations until an adequate alternative is in place.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e1125	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e1155	No. 123 is proposed to the Energy and Environment Committee. - Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e1160	This is a proposal that has been promoted by the fact that we are sky high above the stock target that Stortinget has set for wolves. But if there is any hope of getting the Manhood and Rumforest Reviruses in the winter, it is such that the turbulence act ends on 15 February. Taking into account that the Central Party will propose that this matter be dealt with in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e1165	The President then opens up a round of explanations of vote from the parties if anyone wants to give it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e1170	The Labour Party believes that this is an important matter and that it should be dealt with in the relevant committee. As I understand it, it's the Energy and Environment Committee. However, we argued that the treatment would then be expeditious, so that the Storting could bring the matter up to plenary session for a sufficient time before the end of the licensing period of 15 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e1175	We in SV call on our group to vote against the proposal, but we also call on the committee to have a rapid discussion. We have had good experience of this in the past, and in these kinds of cases it is important that one should have a committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e1180	Several have not asked for the word of the procedure. There are then two procedural proposals: the president's proposal that the matter be referred to the Energy and Environment Committee and the representative Arnstad's proposal that the matter be dealt with in accordance with § 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the matter is being reviewed for at least one day and then put on the agenda for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e1194	Further references were made: 3rd@item: inlistbox Amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act [[124]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : To be sent to the Municipal and Management Committee. 4th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Siv Mossleth, Bengt Fasteraune, Geir Pollestad, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and Sigbjørn Gülsvik on strengthening the Norwegian construction industry (Document 8:38 S [[125]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : to be sent to the Transport and Communications Committee, which shall submit its draft submission to the Economic and Social Committee for an opinion prior to the suspension;
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-14.ana.ud323e1208	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
