ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e72	The representative Petter Eide, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The decision on case No. 1 has not been outside the regulatory period referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article; The Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 46. The President proposes that the matter be brought before the Court of Justice. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e97	At the request of the Special Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e104	I want to start by thanking all the parties for constructive cooperation now as well. Although we did not get full unanimity this time, I feel that everyone is basing the principles on which we agreed when we dealt with the Korona Act in March, and which now forms a common cross-political platform for understanding this unusual law. It is based on the fact that the Storting is the country's top state power and takes full constitutional responsibility. The Constitution shall not be challenged, human rights law shall be respected and the principle of the independence of the courts and prosecutors shall be respected. Restriction of rights must be compatible with the obligations of Norway under international law. Furthermore, the Committee restricts the application of the law and strengthens the rights of the Stortinget and a minority in the Stortinget when we deal with the Korona Act on 27 March. It was emphasised that the law should be applied only if necessary and not if the purpose can be achieved through normal legal proceedings in the Storting or if there is time to carry out an ordinary legislative procedure. This was to be elaborated in the rationale and in such a way that it was later. A unanimous growth was and is still of the opinion that such a crisis authorisation was justified the first month after the covid-19 outbreak. In March, we opened up an extension if the need for the law was not reduced after one month, and if the experience with the law makes an extension proper. That's an extension of one month the government is now asking for. From the Workers' Party we have been of the opinion that it is advisable to extend for one month. The majority believe that the basis of experience we have is limited. The Committee's unanimous position is that the use of minority rights shows that the balance the Stortinget sought to achieve through legal proceedings has been preserved, and that, in the period following the Korona crisis, the Stortinget has been able to deal with matters in a very short time. 21 legal regulations have been promoted, but at the same time 11 common legislative proposals, where treatment has gone very quickly. It's a picture of that situation. The present proposal suggests that adaptations to legislation will be needed even after 27 April. Governments characterised it as an emergency valve. There are no announced plans for regulations, but the course of the virus in the Norwegian community is not predictable, and then we think it is wise to be able to have the opportunity in the weeks to come. There is also a need for a number of regulations that have already been adopted to continue to apply and it will be difficult to promote proposals for the Storting before 27 April. This recognition is shared by the vast majority, including the Center Party and SV. A majority of government parties, the Progress Party, the Green Party and the Labour Party also believe that the gradual opening up of society means that there is still a high degree of uncertainty about the infection situation in the future and that certain security mechanisms should therefore be available. In the view of this majority, there may be a need to adjust the already adopted rules on exemptions, and the need for new rules on exemptions may arise. Let me give you one example: throughout kindergarten and school, which are now gradually opening up, there may be situations where decisions need to be taken to ensure that both children and parents are safe. But the majority assumes, and I think it concerns all parties, that ordinary legal proceedings should be the rule, and that there should only be exceptional provisions under this law. But we therefore support a proposal to extend the Korona Act by one month, until 27 May, under these conditions. Then the law is also terminated. In view of this, a supplement is also proposed in Section 6, which provides for an extended judicial review of the few new regulations that can be expected to be adopted after 27 April. In the case of measures taken in accordance with those rules, the courts may review the adequacy and necessity of the measure, including its proportionality. It should be natural and of course, but I think it's important that it's now settled in the law. Because it's important, also in view of the fact that such a law can become current again, that we have set a standard in this area. The majority proposes a new provision in the second paragraph of Section 2 and a new third sentence in Section 6. The majority also propose a simple legislative change in the first paragraph of Section 4 and the first paragraph of Section 5. The proposal for tightening and clarifying the law also has a different purpose. We believe that it is important to take advantage of the opportunity to improve it, even if it only applies for one month. As we see it, the law will create an important basis and precedent for any later cases. I notice that the centre party and SV have their own comments that they want to explain. However, I think it is gratifying that they will vote in a subsidiary way for the strengthening and delimitation of the law, as proposed by the majority. In this way, we believe that we are taking care of what was a strong message from March, namely that an aggregate increase is behind the important principles. Finally, I would also like to say that an overall committee considers it important to see the overall law on crisis situations in the context, and therefore asks the government to evaluate how relevant laws work together, and whether changes should be made to ensure overall crisis management, legal certainty and as much democratic control as possible in such situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e138	First, thank you to the representative Gahr Støre for the orderly and good case-presidency and for the presentation in the post, but I have some slightly overlying thoughts. It is not surprising that we are now going to decide on the extension and amendment of the Korona Act. Just duration was a major topic of discussion when we first dealt with the temporary law. Everyone agreed on as short a time as possible, but it was difficult to see the time frame and the need at that time. So we were prepared for this and wrote into the matter. The government continues to follow up the previous Coronation Decision and new decisions will be taken. Is there something that reveals the need for a rapid change? We don't know yet. We passed this law to have a simplified and rapid procedure in a crisis situation, and the crisis situation is not over. The government's preparation and the processing of proposals by the Storting and comprehensive funding packages related to the Coronary measures have shown that there is a need for rapid changes in other laws to follow up the purpose of the Storting decision. With such rapid treatment as both government and grossing-up carried out during this period, it has not been possible to predict this. When we sat and negotiated the crisis packages here in Stortinget, it was measures and target groups that got our attention, not a thorough review of the consequences of the rest of the law. That's why we've passed this law at all, a law that initially hurts the stomach and murmurs in the spine. Giving away legislative power as long as the Storting is united is unique – and should be. It is not that many years since the government had known authority throughout the summer, but then the Storting was not together. It's over, and this is something completely different. The government has used the law with care, and law enforcement in the Grand Duchy is and must remain the general rule. Once the request for an extension has been addressed, it is not unnatural that there are proposals for improvements in the procedures of the law and that there is a need to monitor the changes introduced. Now we've seen how it works, and where it's imprecise or critical points. It's corrected. It would have been nice if this time too was a total increase that decided the extension, but the important thing is that we now, together, give it the extra month to take away unforeseen changes for the benefit of the country's citizens and businesses if necessary, and we are now proposing time to prepare what will happen to the changes that have been adopted using this law. They expire at the end of the law, and it is now necessary to prepare how they are to be handled – to be terminated or continued and amended by ordinary treatment. We're still in a crisis situation. We are impatient to return to the most normal everyday life possible. This also applies to the political work of major governments. However, we still have to recognise that the form of work changes for some time to come. Now we propose that this extraordinary procedure be possible for one more month, and that we then be able to deal with all the legal issues quickly and effectively on the Grand Duchy in good cooperation with the government. That's a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e157	Let me also start by thanking the rapporteur for a good job. I also think the case rapporteur has explained very well the views of the majority on this matter, so I am going to be very brief by saying the following: the main job of this law we did in the previous round. Then we tightened it up and hit it in a way that we now also see through the hearing replies that have come in connection with the wish to extend the law by one month. The criticism has ceased, simply because Stortinget did his job in the previous round. As the previous speaker also said, there has been limited use on the part of the government. The relatively limited scope of regulations established under this law has been manageable, and we have also been shown that the valve with minority rights works well. The government has justified the need for extension just as an emergency valve, and I agree, simply because we are still in a situation where there is uncertainty about the development of this pandemic and its handling. So we also think it's right to give green light to a month's extension. But we're going to end it too. I feel that there is a broad consensus – also on the part of the government – that this is what is necessary in this phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e166	In the situation that arose when many of society's functions were shut down on 12 March, rapid decisions were needed. We were in a rather inconceivable situation: we were uncertain whether Stortinget was able to gather physically and deal with matters, and we were uncertain about how many laws and rules had to be changed to adapt to the new situation. It was Wednesday 18 March that the government asked Stortinget for an authorisation to introduce rules that differ from existing laws. Only three days later, Stortinget passed such a law, but it was a rather different law than the government proposed. The majority passed a law that was considerably stricter than the law of authority proposed by the government. We decided that it could only be used to derogate from 62 named laws. We also gave a minority the right to stop the laws that had to be given in compliance with the Korona Act. It was a sensible arrangement that month. It was also very reasonable that there was a unanimous staging that was behind it. So what's the situation today? The situation today is, first of all, that the government has come to an end to the rather pressing need that existed at the end of March, in order to be able to modify, supplement or derogate from laws to adapt the legislation to the situation in which we were. They had the opportunity to do that. It also means that 21 regulations — or legislative changes, as they actually are — have been introduced under the law. So the accumulated need from the government to change things has been let go. The other thing we've seen in the last few months is that the Storting isn't in a position to act. The size functions reasonably normal. The size is able to make rapid decisions, and the Storting is able to have a quick procedure. In this respect, the Centre Party considers that one should, after the first months, revert to the security afforded by Norwegian State law — the security it provides for a clear and distinct distinction between the legislative and granting authority and the executive authority. It is a certainty to have that kind of sense of role even in an abnormal time. That kind of power distribution is good. We were in a situation where we had to make an emergency valve, in many ways, but now we should get back to the situation that is normal, that is, that the legal process takes place in Stortinget. I see that there may also be situations in the next few months where you may need to make changes to the law quickly, and where you may need to be able to turn around quickly. It may be related to the infection situation and other conditions. But I believe that in the last few months it has been fully demonstrated that the Storting is able to do so. Several of the government’s regulations have been out for consultation, have been sent to the Storting as a legislative change and have been dealt with in the Storting within two to three days, and then there has been a second treatment – under the Constitution – three days afterwards. It is a very rapid and effective treatment that respects the principle of power distribution. After a rather rough start for everyone, there is no doubt that the Stortinge in a new situation, with fewer meetings and severe infection prevention measures, has been fully able to function. I also think that the arguments for continuing the law are weaker than they were when we adopted it. It should say that you can cancel the law and go back to what is normal. The opinion of the centre party is therefore that we do not want an extension of the corona law. We want to be able to extend the regulations for one more month and make proposals in line with them, but we believe that during the May month legal proceedings should take place in accordance with the principles in force in Norway, namely that the Stortinget is amending and supplementing laws. The size has also shown that it is fully capable of doing so in a very fast and efficient way, and it should be possible for the Storting to do so. With that, I take up the proposal that the Zenterpartie and SV have promoted in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e189	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e194	The Korona Act should apply as short a time as possible. We are only to have a power of attorney law that sets aside normal proceedings in Stortinget for as long as this is strictly necessary. There is a broad consensus on this in Stortinget. The topic of this debate is therefore whether the time has come to end, whether it is necessary to extend it, whether it is strictly necessary to extend it, or whether it is entirely possible to cope without it. In SV, we have considered this very carefully, because both considerations that are argued for in this debate are important. It is important to be able to act quickly in an evolving crisis that is unpredictable. And it is important precisely at such a time to seek to maintain as normal a democratic and political process as possible. We have come to the conclusion that the reason for extending the law by another month is too weak. I don't intend to make this disagreement unnecessarily dramatic, because I feel that we're all moving in the same direction here. It is positive that the government signals that the law should not be used often, and that it will hardly be extended after 27 May. Of course, it can be an argument to vote yes to extension, but at last we believe that the same thing is a good argument that this is a natural time not to extend the law. The signals of a slowdown and termination of the law are only possible to give because the long list of matters with which it was urgent to do something is no longer there. The government has put in place the regulations that were urgently needed to get in place, and does not seem to have concrete new plans to use the Korona Act. However, situations may arise during the next month that will require prompt action. First of all, it is important to remember that the powers of the government to act in order to protect life and health exist, are governed by the infectious diseases law and other laws. Secondly, both government and growth now add up to almost normal activity in the Storting. There will be frequent meetings in the future. If that were possible, one of the things there was considerable uncertainty about when the Korona Law was passed. The size has been shown to be able to act quickly and will be able to do so in the weeks to come. It was right to adopt the Korona Act. With a few exceptions, SV has been satisfied with how it has been used. It is a law that has provided a reasonable opportunity to act quickly while at the same time ensuring control, transparency and solid minority rights. That is why I would also like to say that SV is going to vote subsidiaryly for the improvements proposed by the majority. However, everyone agrees that normal legal treatment is preferable. The regulations adopted under the Korona Act are still in use, but they can be continued even if the government no longer gets access to go beyond the Storting in order to establish new ones. A law on which there are so many fundamental concerns should only be adopted if it is strictly necessary to continue. That was a month ago. The justification is clearly weaker today, and therefore it is not obvious that a yes for April will also mean a yes for May. We are in favour of our yes to the month that has passed, but chooses to vote against the extension with a new one.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e211	When a co-conspirator's decision was taken on 27 March 2020, I stressed on behalf of the Left: ‘It is not with a simple heart a social liberal party today agrees to delegate this kind of power from the Storting – the legislative assembly – to the government.’ That the Left, like the rest of the parties on the Stortinget, nevertheless found it necessary, said something about the seriousness of the situation. I also stressed that the Greatness of Close Dialogue with the Government found a good balance between the need to act quickly in a highly abnormal situation on one side and the basic democratic principles on the other. Three weeks later, we can join forces in thanking and thanking each other, and not least the community out there, because the common good we are all part of, so far as has led us to have reasonable control of the situation of infection and development – so good control that society can now gradually reopen and partly normalize. Nevertheless, it is a big one, one that neither the Storing nor the Government can ignore: the uncertainty surrounding the infection situation is unfortunately still so great that some security mechanisms should be available for a while. In addition, we know that several of the features already adopted in the Korona Law must be in force longer than April 27, the day of the promise, unless the Storting relinquishs it. Then, of course, it's an alternative to extension rather to adopt a basis of regulation for these specifications, so that they can be specifically extended. When the Left nevertheless thinks that it's not advisable, it's weighed up against the imminent danger of sudden spread of infection and rapid development in the knowledge of the virus. The need not only to adopt new, acute declarations but also to adjust existing ones will require a time-consuming extension of the laws. And given the secrets of the three weeks that the laws have worked, there is reason to let the doubt come to the benefit of the government and what can become a new, more inconspicuous, infectious situation. The government has generally, with one exception that confirms the rule at the very beginning, where a minority rejected the proposals from the government, followed the decision to raise the issue: that the rule is still normal law-making in the Storting, and that exceptions allowed in the Korona Law should be based and deepened – if the government thinks there is no right to ordinary law-making – in such a way that it also remains in retrospect. And when the government got the opportunity to carry out changes and now extend the need without going through the Storting, it is because the crisis requires rapid action – not only by vital measures, but partly by the government’s extensive measures of protection against infection, but also by what in this context can act as practical trivialities: that the schools can adapt the teaching at a time when the schools have been connected, without breaking Norwegian law, that ticketing on the ferries can be done without manual payment of cash, that one can carry out the statutory meetings as in the rule should be physical, in companies, barricades, foundations, etc., before different deadlines, without becoming lawbreakers – in order to take some examples of what the laws have been used for so far. I think most people understand that it is wise for the government to find smooth ways to solve such things, so that the most possible of our time- and resource-use is to deal with far more important measures to deal with the crisis in the best possible way, without breaking the fundamental principle of the principle of power-distribution: that it is Parliament, the Storting, that has the ultimate power, and has the ability to exercise power even in a crisis situation like this. The government itself stresses in the proposal to extend the law that they do not see any need beyond a month, that is, 27 May. There should also be sufficient time for the government to draw up, where appropriate, new legislative proposals which receive an ordinary deliberation in order to compensate for claims made in the Korona Act. Therefore, the Left is clear that our support for the extension does not apply beyond 27 May 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e229	I'm glad that there's a broad majority standing behind this position. It gives the necessary legitimacy. I would also like to thank the rapporteur this time for a good job in an important matter. Here again we have shown that we work constructively as a committee and that we work effectively as a magnificence. This means that we can now put in place measures in a way that provides the necessary flexibility for the government to govern the country in a time of crisis, while at the same time ensuring good democratic control. This is an exemption law limited in time and limited in scope. It's important to underline just this. As I also said in my post when the Korona Act was originally adopted, the Storting should of course be conscious of its constitutional responsibility. The size is the country's top state power even in times of crisis. Yes, in particular in times of crisis, it is crucial that important principles in a legal state remain in force. The Korona Act shall only be applied if it has been carefully assessed and concluded that it is necessary to use this Act as the basis for a new regulation or amendment of the Regulation. Thus, the law shall not apply if the purpose can be achieved by ordinary legal proceedings. It is still the case that where there is time to carry out an ordinary legislative process, the option shall be chosen. The size has shown several times, especially over the past few weeks, that we can decide matters very quickly. That is good, and we should be grateful that we have a parliament that is able to gather and make the necessary decisions in a crisis. The practice of the law by the government – the way in which the government has managed the opportunity provided by the Stortinget – shows that one has drawn on a line in which one has dealt with the premises on which the Stortinget was based. The government has complied with and practiced what was the Storting's assumption, laid down in comments and pronounced here in the hall. Of course, it is a wise approach on the part of the government and also means that an extension of the law is supported and still has broad support. I notice that in the consultation round that has taken place in the context of the extension of the law, there has also been broad support and understanding among the hearing bodies for the need to extend this law. Only two have expressed themselves differently. It is important that we have tools and instruments to meet the unpredictable situation now. Although it may seem that the measures taken have worked, and the development of the pandemic has gone in the right direction, we do not know what can happen in the future. So we need this safety valve. At the same time, it is quite clear that the provisions of this Act are to be decided only when strictly necessary and minority rights remain equally stressed. Court control is even reinforced in this law. There was agreement in the previous round that such a law was necessary. On our side, the extension of the period of operation of the Korona Act is a pragmatic solution that provides our country with the necessary instruments to deal with the greatest national crisis of our time, while at the same time respecting the fundamental democratic principles which, of course, should not be undermined.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e250	I would also like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee and the rapporteur for their good leadership and process. The Greens have chosen to support the extension of the Korona Act now as this is also a new and better law, but only for one more month. In the previous round we fought to improve legal certainty in the law and came together with the rest of the Stortinget for a good deal. Now we take it a long step further, with a new legal text, which ensures, among other things. that regulations may never conform to basic principles of legal certainty or to the independence of the courts. Changes to the legal text that we are adopting today include: a clarification in Section 2: ‘However, a temporary regulation may not restrict fundamental principles of legal certainty or the independence of the courts.’.» And Section 6 now adds a sentence: ‘In testing the legality of the regulation, the Court may review the adequacy and necessity of the measure, including its proportionality’. The majority have also underlined in the setting this time that exceptional regulations that can go across human rights require further investigation. For example, criminal services have been given the opportunity to refuse visits to prisoners under an exceptional rule in connection with the outbreak of the virus. When a mother or father who is a son in prison cannot be visited by her child, it intervenes in the right to family life and should, of course, be investigated and discussed openly and explicitly. This has been addressed in consultation by the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights and Judicial Association. Clarifying legal certainty, the independence of the courts and respect for human rights have been important for the Greens in assessing an extension of the Korona Act. That's why we have now also given priority to the work on the law. The Green Party is by no means uncritical of the use of today's Coronation Act or of extending it for one more month. But it's a problem that without a corona law in the next few weeks, any new urgent regulations will have to be repatriated elsewhere, for example. in the case of infectious diseases, which do not have the same transparency and democratic control requirements. It's a fact, as the government itself writes in the proposition we're dealing with today, that the most interventional measures in the coronary crisis have been largely based on the Code of Disease Protection. The Greens therefore believe it would have been irresponsible not to have a corona law one more month, as some parties go in favour of. In an unforeseen situation with pandemics, where Norway may still need exceptional regulations that are new even during this period, we would be able to get less transparency and democratic control, no more, without a corona act. This is also an important reason why the Greens have been working for and have also been able to see through – and we are very pleased to see this – that the entire committee specifies that the overall legal framework for crisis situations needs to be reviewed. The Committee states in its opinion that: ‘It is important to see the overall law on crisis situations in the context, and to ask the government to evaluate the functioning of relevant laws together, and whether changes should be made to ensure overall crisis management, legal certainty and democratic control.’;» The Greens believe that by further improving the Korona law, it now creates an even better precedent for establishing equivalent requirements for transparency and democratic control in all of the crisis laws we have in Norway, such as the Korona law, the IPR, the Civil Protection Act, the Civil Protection Act and the Health Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e282	The handling of the corona pandemic requires political action, but it is democracy and an open, informed debate that provides the most accurate and effective measures, we believe. That's why we're going to go against the extension of the Korona Act. We think the government has stretched the use of the law too far, and that the time has come to underline the principle of the Constitution with the Stortinget as the first and the legislative state power. We have given the government time to make the necessary adjustments, and then the Storting should, in our view, be taken over from now on. It is one month since a total accumulation parked the government's attempt to introduce a near-general authorisation law with almost unlimited ability to take over the Storting's functions and override the applicable laws and rights. Instead, the size gave the government a limited power of attorney for one month to take sound, effective and proportionate measures. At the same time, the independence of the courts and prosecutors, the human rights, local democracy and not least the involvement and attendance of the trade union movement were underlined. Not least one third of the Stortinget was given the opportunity to repeal regulations in full or in part under the Korona Act – even before their entry into force. It could be done in writing and was not dependent on Stortinget meeting physically. This is the experience it is important to bring with it. The same applies to the further tightening of the original law that is happening today, which we also support. We believe, however, that it is not right to extend the law. The Government has issued regulations with wide powers far beyond the purpose of the Korona Act. Therefore, significant parts of five regulations are also repealed by the Storting. In addition to a number of other regulations, the Government has not followed up the requirement for adequate reasons why decisions have not been taken through ordinary proceedings in the Grand Duchy. In addition, red has been totally or partially opposed to several regulations on a political basis, including: in the justice and health sectors, and justified on grounds of legal certainty or on the protection of vulnerable children and young people in need of care, psychiatric care or child protection – or families charged with childcare bills from the last week. In our view, rather than prolonging the law and regulations given, the government should have submitted the regulations they believe there is a need to extend, for the Stortinget, we could have a regular political treatment before the Korona Act expires. The size has shown in the last month that it is fully possible to carry out effective treatment of many cases, when it has been necessary as a result of the coronary apathy. At the same time, we must be careful to maintain our democratic principles. This also applies to the treatment itself. Action must be taken to take the necessary and proper action quickly and not at the expense of basic principles of public debate and transparency. It is essential to protect democracy and legal certainty, and it is in times of crisis that this is really put to the test.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e299	Let me start by thanking the Committee and the rapporteur for a very good cooperation in this situation. The interim corona law has been important in the initial phase of this crisis. It has given the government the opportunity to quickly adopt regulations to remedy a number of negative impacts on society as a result of the covid-19 outbreak. For example, the courts have been able to carry out far more cases than without these changes, and companies and associations such as housing laws and associations can legally conduct board meetings, annual meetings and general meetings without physical presence. However, let me point out that the vast majority of measures resulting from the covid-19 outbreak have been provided for by existing legislation or by law. The need to launch new measures has rapidly decreased and will decrease further after 27 April. We still believe it is important that the law be extended by one month. Firstly, there may be a need for a very large number of measures provided for under the law to be of a duration beyond 27 April. Many hearing bodies also point to the importance of statutory regulations and the need to extend them. Secondly, there may also be a need to make adjustments and technical changes to these Regulations. Thirdly, we cannot now rule out the need for new regulations after 27 April, and that an extension of the law therefore provides flexibility in the form of an emergency valve if necessary. I can assure you that the government will use the law with great care in the extension. Finally, a little about the other proposals to the Committee: the proposal by the Central Party and the Socialist Left on the continuation of the regulations would alleviate the need somewhat, as I have also explained. However, it becomes more complicated to make the necessary changes or adjustments to the regulations that have already been adopted, and there would also be no flexibility in the event of a new and absolutely necessary need. I am therefore pleased that a clear majority in Stortinget supports an extension of the law by one month. I record that the bulk of the population refers to a change in the second paragraph of Section 2 which states that a temporary regulation cannot, however, limit the fundamental principles of legal certainty or the independence of the courts. In my view, it already follows from the second paragraph of Paragraph 2, which states that the regulations cannot derogate from the Constitution, and it has also been underlined in the proposition in the matter from the government. In any case, let me assure the Storting that the government does not, and never has, intend to promote such regulations. I also take note that the majority of the population has extended the judicial review in Section 6 for new regulations, in addition to that resulting from general principles of judicial review and beyond the current Section 6. As mentioned earlier, the government will use the law with great care after April 27th, and we therefore assume that this is of little or no practical significance. As explained in the proposition, we do not now see that it will be necessary to ask for further extension after May 27. In the next few weeks, the government will therefore propose a number of legislative changes to ensure that the measures needed to continue after 27 May are given a new legal basis. The government looks forward to continued good cooperation with the Storting to ensure that the legislative changes can be adopted quickly, so that they enter into force before 27 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e320	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Business Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e351	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after the main speakers of the parties and six lines of response after contributions from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e358	It's good to see that parts of society have slowly started returning to a slightly more normal life. Also the work here on the Storting has been marked by the crisis the world is undergoing now. I would therefore like to thank the Committee very much for its work in a difficult time. Fortunately, as the business community in Norway, the Storting is at least a bit changeable and quite adaptable, and it is necessary. Business in Norway is reviewing what is currently the most difficult situation in which they have ever found themselves. Businesses will go bankrupt, unemployment will be high, and it may take a long time. The international value chains are harm-reduction, and the restoration of international trade and business will be at least as challenging as the problems we have to solve here in Norway. A strong business life is the foundation of the welfare society, and the state-owned companies are an important part of it. You and I own the companies, and the state has an important job in managing the values on our behalf. It is also of great importance to trust in the Norwegian capital market that the management of the company is professional and predictable. There is basically a broad political consensus on the framework for the state's ownership exercise, and it has been for almost 20 years. Since the notification was submitted about four months ago, the landscape has changed in ways that no one could predict. It is therefore important to stress that it is clear that the country's ownership exercise will and must be adapted to the crisis we are in. The principles of ownership management allow this and do not conflict with the challenges ahead of us. It will be that the companies in which the country holds ownership will further focus on value creation, which will contribute to more activity and to job security. The different reasons for state ownership provide the basis for the use of state ownership as a tool to improve our response to the crisis. Social security and preparedness, other sectoral policy objectives, high rates of return over time, tasks to be undertaken on behalf of the country, and sustainable value creation, are – individually and in all cases – objectives that make state ownership important, both through and on the other side of the crisis. The right believes that in the future there must also be private ownership that is the main rule. It shall not be excluded that the state share may be increased for a limited period, as one of many measures in a crisis situation, but a welfare society such as Norway cannot exist without a strong private business. State ownership must be justified. The majority of the Committee, all except the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, writes that they register «the leading principle is that the State should hold holdings in companies when it is the best solution to meet the different needs of the State». This comment provides considerable scope for action even in a period of crisis. Although I started by saying that there is a broad political consensus related to state ownership and ownership, there is a large minority who want to increase state ownership, as a principle. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party believe that the state's ownership posts should be increased, and so there is a sharp distinction here. For the Right, it is not an independent point to increase state ownership, rather on the contrary. For limited periods, it may have something in common because it is for the benefit of the country’s needs, but as a matter of principle, it is going to be wrong. When the left-hand side wants to strengthen state ownership, it seems rather like a shortcut to achieving one of the other objectives of the red-green side sketches, namely strengthened national ownership of Oslo Børs – an exchange that is already among the most sovereign in the world. Furthermore, today we are also discussing a proposal for a representative on government wage reform. I am pleased that this is the subject of discussion in the ownership message, for recruiting and retaining good leaders is a part of the process. The principle that wages must be competitive but not pay-leading is a good principle. Consideration for moderation shall also be taken not only in determining but also in adjusting remuneration. It is important that the different undertakings comply with these guidelines and that the boards are aware of their responsibilities in the processes. Transparency and reporting make this available to all. It is necessary for the public to have confidence in the companies and arrangements. The right is satisfied that the guidelines on remuneration and remuneration are being revised – it will provide further clarification to the board of directors. The country owns industrial activities initiated by the country, industrial activities acquired by the country and own production of goods and services. This will also be the case in the future, but the needs of the country must be the basis for the size of the different ownership positions. Norway is among the best equipped in the world to get the most healthy through the situation we are now in. State ownership and its exercise are one important tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e387	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e392	The rapporteur was in his speech on the subject of principles and ideology and referred to the left. What I'm amazed at is that he doesn't take up the ideology of the right hand side, which is confirmed both by the message itself and by the setting, is that the right hand parties want over time to reduce the state's ownership. And then I can ask, what company is the representative of Eidem Løvaas who wants to get rid of it first?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e397	It is not specified – by the slightly more than 70 companies that the State owns in whole or in part – which it wishes to sell over time. What is pointed out, on the other hand, is that in the category where it is only justified by increased value creation, it will be interesting to sell down over time. Now I think, as I was also in my post, that given the situation we're in, there's a lot of processes that might be suspended or viewed with other eyes. But it is – and I tried to say it in the post, but obviously it was not enough, and I would like to thank the representative for the opportunity to repeat it – of course the ideological view of the Right that it is not in principle a right idea to increase state ownership. On the contrary, it would be an important principle over time to lower the state’s share of companies where there are no reasons other than financial to retain ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e402	I guess I don't really feel that that was a good answer. It is absolutely essential that the Right entrance to ownership, and the State ownership, is that someone wants the private to acquire ownership. There's a good enough reason, but there's every reason to question how it's going to happen. Is it e.g. such that substantial long-term industrial ownership capital is available in Norway? Is there a shortage of investment objects for private owners to develop themselves in the Norwegian business community? I don't quite see those issues. But when it comes to ownership: ‘To contribute to a more widespread ownership, the government wishes over time to reduce the country’s ownership’ – is there an opinion and an approach to the state ownership to which the representative subscribes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e407	The short answer to that is yes. Right-wing wants increased private ownership in Norway, and I am glad that the Workers' Party has also, in the work of the ownership message, acceded to the principle that private ownership is the main rule in Norwegian working life. So ask the representative which companies you see would be sold and become more private or completely private. Then it is interesting to rather send the question back and ask which companies the Workers' Party wants to nationalize.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e412	I'll follow up a little where the previous line ends - then just enough with a counter question. But it has to be expected – when one has a policy that means that one of the ideological reasons wants to reduce state ownership, a very clear letter of this, an emphasis that there are Category 1 companies to sell down – that one has some thoughts about which company one intends to get rid of for the next four years. Or is it so that all companies that sort in category 1 for Right are potential candidates to be sold?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e417	I can repeat what I said instead, and as far as the representative Pollestad was concerned: it is about companies that are categorised in category 1, i.e. companies that are initially only owned and have no other reason than the financial – it is not a social security justification, it is not a preparedness justification, and it is not other sectoral policy objectives that need to be achieved. There is only a financial justification for keeping the companies. Maybe the reason was a different original, but today we're just left with a purely financial justification. Such companies would of course be unnatural, I would almost say, if you didn't consider selling in. Again, it is tempting to answer with a counter-question, even though I know that the representative might have to include it in his post: if you want a financial justification for state ownership, which private companies today are looking forward to nationalizing in the future in the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e422	The cord shift is with the change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e428	I want to start by thanking the rapporteur for getting through this matter in these Corona times in Stortinget. We should have discussed it even further before we gave the setting, because we believe there are a lot of important principles here that it is important to think carefully through. I am pleased that we agree on the principles of ownership management. It is very clear, not only through this setting, but also through it – let's say – the tradition of the Stortinget in dealing with ownership messages in the form we have now found. But when that's said, there's also a very clear ideological dividing line between the right-hand parts on one side and the left-hand side on the other - to use that expression. We clearly see advantages by strengthening ownership and using it actively. I think about competence, research, technology development, innovation, employment, etc. We believe that there is a strategic management of good traditions that has given us much. We believe that it is a quality that has stood out historically, and we believe that it provides an important industrial basis. The right side, on the other hand, argues – without completely finding the ideology, really – that they want to reduce state ownership. They justify it in a variety of ownership. But there's no contradiction here. On the contrary, I believe that state ownership can often help to further develop private ownership or provide a basis for private ownership. It is not that there is a shortage of investment objects in Norwegian business for private owners – on the contrary: if there is something we notice when we travel to Norwegian business, Norwegian industry, etc., it is precisely that the supply of long-term industrial capital is the biggest defect. So when we see what the right parties are doing in this position, it is to me a strong expression from the right parties that they – let's say – are continuing a strong tradition of industrial poverty and the absence of visions of what industrial and long-term policy and thinking should be related to this matter. So there are many possibilities that should have been further developed and pointed out in terms of the quality of state ownership already in place: Hydro's feature in managing and developing electrons for valuable metals, Telenor's fantastic position in ICT and data communications, Yara's unique position in the field of fertiliser production, and the peculiar companies, such as the Vinmonopolet, which clearly have their own tasks through state ownership – many qualities associated with it. I could still do this. It's important to further develop it. An example of something that could have been further developed in these times, in the light of the corona situation, is this with safety, medicine, etc. It could have been useful to further develop and have had a discussion about whether the state in partnership with private owners could further develop a stronger security in view of the situation we have been through and what we have experienced. The state ownership also gives fantastic – let's say – returns to the community. Only in the field of the Minister of Industry, it's over 20 billion. kr which is budgeted for yields or dividends during the year. From Telenor, who has been wanted to be sold by the right-hand government for a long time, there is expected a dividend of approximately 6.5 billion. kr – large values, large sums, which benefit the community, in addition to the strategically important position technology, innovation, research, employment, etc. has been associated with it. I think the right-hand side lacks a reason for that. One of the last topics I want to address is leadership pay, bonus and moderation, which is the subject of repeated discussions every year. Then I think it's strange that the right parties, who have also made the impression that they want to do something about it, by this setting actually chooses not to do anything about it. The working party is behind a lot of suggestions about leadership wage moderation, bonus moderation and getting things under control. It is not compatible with the development we want that state-owned whole-time or rented companies should have a leadership wage development that is different from what is normal in society. That is why we support the proposals that have been put forward in the Doc. 8:127 S. With this, I would like to address the proposals to which the Workers' Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e457	Then the representative of Terje Aasland has taken up the proposals behind the Workers' Party. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e464	I want to continue where the representative Aasland and I left, because I left him with a question he could not answer. I was into it in my post and can repeat it now: Oslo Børs is, I think, the stock exchange in the world – at least one of them – with the highest proportion of state ownership. This is what the Working Party wants to increase. The question is a two-part one. Is it a proper message to send to the various shareholders around the country? And: since it was so important to have a list of companies you wanted to sell, you also have to assume that the Workers' Party has a list of companies they want to nationalize. It might have been interesting to hear about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e471	Thank you for the question. We don't initially have a goal of nationalizing companies, but we believe that the state that owns can be a positive partner to private capital and private owners, unlike the Right that doesn't see that possibility at all. I can take one area that could be interesting to go on with now: several have, for example, called for the possibility of producing vaccines in Norway. We have some medical companies, industries, that could stand for a production, and we might be able to further develop a production. But we don't have the tool, and the private don't have the capital to do it. Because that's exactly what they demand: long-term industrial capital to be involved. I think the state could be a good player, a good partner, for the private initiative – not a counter-player, to whom the Right chooses to make the state in terms of private capital. There's no contradiction between these. If the representative sees it, he should try to find it. I can't find it at all. I see that there is a good interaction between private and state capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e478	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e483	To begin with, I have to say that this is not a very exciting message, but a message based on principles from previous ownership messages. In summary, the Communication states that ownership policy is firm, but it is clearer than previous messages in defining what is the purpose of individual ownership, what will be achieved and what is expected of management. Clarification is always useful. The notification also lists some companies for which there is no longer any justification for ownership. It will facilitate in the long term the reduction of the country's ownership of these companies. The party of progress is, as you know, skeptical about state ownership and believes that this is a proper development. Government ownership concentrates power and influence on few hands. Corporate governance inhibits long-term thinking and value creation — not least public ownership can lead to discrimination between actors in the same market. During the government period of the Progress Party, the State has sold itself out or down to several companies where we have had no particular reason to hold ownership, for example. the property company Entra, the breeding company Cermaq and the carrier SAS. Furthermore, the government wants to reduce state ownership in whole or in part in Ambita, the technology company that provides digital solutions for the property market, the track service and the road company Mesta. Private ownership should be the general rule in Norwegian business. The State should have holdings in companies only when it is the best solution to meet the different needs of the State, because there are areas where the State should and should have control. This applies in particular to enterprises linked to national security and societal critical functions. Therefore, it is important that the State maintains its holdings in the Kongsberg Group and Nammo respectively for Pst 50,001. and 50 pst. Without state ownership, there could be a risk that defence-industrial capacity would be moved out of the country over time. It will have consequences for our defence capabilities. The issue of state ownership shows a clear distinction in Norwegian policy. The Trio Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party want a state that gains further power in private business. They promote, inter alia: the proposal to: ‘strengthen state ownership to become a strategic tool to contribute to the transition of the Norwegian economy’. So here, politicians and bureaucrats are going to take the lead and decide how the company is going to operate. It sounds to me like a plan economy and a poor solution for businesses and value creation. The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party also want to introduce even more requirements and leadership for the companies. They believe that more stringent sustainability reporting requirements should be set by the State, which sets out how the operation operates in line with Norwegian emission reduction targets and sustainable development objectives, i.e. in line with the UN sustainability targets. The preparation of presentations on how the company contributes to the 17 sustainability objectives of the UN and the 169 sub-objectives are seen as a not entirely insignificant and very bureaucratic task. If there's something we don't need in Norway, there's more paperwork for Norwegian companies. In addition, companies shall also contribute to the achievement of Norway’s climate objectives. It sounds like the left-hand side wants to turn the businesses into NGOs. This does not promise profitability in Norwegian business. One of the most controversial points in the processing of the notification is management salaries. Here's a tabloid on the left. There is no way in which action is to be taken. For example, the Labour Party wants: direct intervention by the government; and «replace directors who do not comply with the government guidelines on directors’ salaries in companies where the State assumes that they are to be followed». A management pay commission is also to be set up. It is important to bear in mind that companies with State ownership should also be able to attract competent managers and board members. We can't risk getting good top managers because we praise ourselves out of the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e510	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e515	Here the Progress Party has a lot to answer for. In 1975 the Progress Party would sell the rights that the State had, among other things. in the Statfjord field. Today, it's the money that the National Assembly spends when we're going to make sure people have income, that families have security, and we can try to fight the infection. The principle programme of the Progress Party rightly states that in their ideal societies, the State has a limited role to play. Wouldn't the ideal society of the Progress Party just lead us to have less economic muscles to resist, for example. the virus situation that we are now jointly trying to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e522	If the Sandtrøen representative has such great faith that the state alone would have managed to build the society we have today, with the value creation that is today, without a private business life, I think Sandtrøen is thoroughly wrong. I can only replicate that, with regard to our holdings in the oil industry that the Advance Party once wanted to sell out, Carl I. Hagen admitted that it might not be very smart. In any case, I believe the values created in Norway have not come specifically from state initiatives, but because we have private investors and private traders who want to create values and jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e527	Carl I. Hagen has admitted it, and that's why it's so strange that the same principle still stands in the principal programme of the precisely Progress Party. We have a situation in Norway where we know that, for example: Statoil has been important for the development of the private industry related to oil. This is how the Workers' Party wants to use state ownership – as the representative of Aasland explained. We see that one thing strengthens the other, and that we get more industry and value creation. In recent years, Norway has experienced an increasing deficit beyond the oil exports we have. 2019 was the top year for the deficit, so the transformation of society has been totally absent. Does the Progress Party not see that it is important that we have the opportunity to invest in industry, so that private individuals can also increase the business opportunities resulting from increased industrial activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e535	Now we have many examples of the state being the owner to build companies. A good example in this way is old Raufoss Ammunition factories, which were a principal company that was split up and sold out. There has never been more value creation and employees in those companies than it has now been. We're not saying the state shouldn't be in the company, it can be good in some areas, for example. areas dealing with societally critical issues – that they are in and are in the start-up phase. But when it's over, they can also sell out. Then the purpose has been achieved, they can sell out of the companies so that private investors and private traders can continue and operate and increase the value creation of the companies and in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e542	When the Progress Party went out of government, they said it was like getting out of prison. It's obvious when you're listening to the posts today, that one has been influenced by their accomplices, for the Progress Party to the right of these questions. It also means that one is for an ideologically motivated sale of companies, even in situations where it means that one goes from Norwegian ownership to foreign ownership. One of the companies in category 1 is the Flytrain. Me and the Center Party believe it's an advantage that the Flytrain is in national ownership, and that it's in public ownership. Then my question is, can it be thought that the Progress Party supports a sale of the state-owned part of the Flytrain?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e549	Yes, it could be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e554	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e559	For the Centre Party, the most important thing is to facilitate Norwegian enterprises, Norwegian ownership and national control of natural resources and infrastructure in society. State ownership is a means of securing national ownership. Here, the Central Party separates itself from the Government Party and the Advance Party, because the government says it's an independent goal to reduce state ownership, but we don't know what it is that will be better for people in Norway if we do. It also includes history that the government of Solberg has a relatively embarrassing story when it comes to the administration of state ownership. It is well worth mentioning that they have previously proposed the Storting and have been accepted for selling to the Kongsberg Group. There had to be a drag on the hub brake and stop this. Stortingspleirtal stop the government. The centre party has a completely different approach and would like to use the national ownership more actively to secure Norwegian jobs, Norwegian value creation and control of infrastructure and natural resources. We will thus develop a state-owned ownership instrument that can secure Norwegian ownership of important companies. This means that the country can buy up in important companies that are at risk of being sold out of the country, but the country must also have the opportunity to sell again when the time is ripe for it, and one can sell to private Norwegian owners. The central party's goal is not the state, but the state is the hub we use for important national companies to continue to be Norwegian. When I hear the case spokesperson here, as well as present it as something negative to be for national ownership, I react. Of course, it's a goal to have the most possible national ownership of Oslo Stock Exchange, but our commitment extends beyond the stock exchange. Let me add that this government has also sold the stock exchange to the rest of the world and made it a branch of a foreign company. Our commitment extends; we think it's a good thing that companies in Norway have national ownership, have Norwegian ownership. The message also includes the principle of how one should own. There is much agreement, but it always turns out that when there is doubt and discussion around the company, the depositors from the government will be sent a speech point from the government saying that one should owe the opposition to break the ownership principle. I think it's important that we have a clear principle behind a large number of things, but we have to have a little more confidence in meeting these principles. It must be that there is always the law of a public debate around companies in which the state owns. State ownership must be exercised in line with the laws applicable to associations, but they must never park democracy. A particularly important theme where the community owns is the question of leadership pay. Here the government parties and the supporting parties provide a note that means that the paycheck can continue. If the Storting wants to do something about the growth of leadership wages, it's the time for mumbling in the armpit above, because that's what the majority of parties do in their comments. The centre party and the Labour Party are in many proposals in this setting, but I would like to make a special comment on proposal No. 15, which we don't go in for. This is where the Workers' Party says it will replace non-aligned members of the Board of Directors. It's the Center Party initially agreed, but we think that as a general principle it should also be in the interest of those who are elected as state representatives in the government, following up what is in the owner's interest. Elles, as a comfort to the Workers' Party, supports their loose proposal No. 23, which is a good suggestion that has come in. It is interesting to note that when there is a crisis in the country, the Government Party and the Progress Party are within a decision and have taken a decision that is far more offensive when it comes to state ownership than what is in the setting here. Otherwise, I will end by saying that this is an important message, but it's a hymn, it's very vague wording, and it's a lot of festivities – it's probably 39 times in the committee's attitude. I believe that ownership policy also has a clear-cut round.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e582	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e587	It was interesting that the representative ended by revealing that he had spoken how many times it said ‘sustainable’. I guess that's because most of the places where it's written, the Center Party is not on the note. There's a lot of talk about national ownership and Norwegian ownership, and I'm a little uncertain about whether the representative then means private or state, because that's the state ownership we're talking about. In a note all except for the Socialist Left Party, it states that private ownership should be the main rule in Norway. I really have two questions. One is: Does the Center Party believe that private ownership should be the general rule in Norway? The second is whether he might be able to clarify – as he and I also had a line exchange about who should own what – which of today's private companies he sees ought to be taken over by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e596	When it comes to the word «resource», we have a counting function on the central part of the computer that arranges this. My point is that neither writing "reactiveness" nor walking around with pins with lots of colors increases the carrying power of society. Action is required to achieve bearer power. When it comes to companies that the Center Party wants to buy, it will be in situations where companies are in danger of leaving the country. It may now be, as a result of the crisis, that it is relevant to enter the owner’s page – a principle that also Right has joined. And when it is almost suggested that the Center Party should not mean that private ownership was the main rule in Norway – private ownership is the main rule in Norway! The vast majority of our businesses are privately owned. They're in Norwegian ownership, and that's how it's going to go on. So that's not supposed to exaggerate the meaning that we also use the state as a hub.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e603	The fact that we can use the state as a tool when, for example: Now – is a crisis, shows that we probably have the instruments needed. What, then, is the reason why the Centre Party wants to create its own fund or tool – I do not know exactly what it should be like – that is intended solely to buy up as a state owner? The only thing that will result is that they want to look with light and light for things to buy, just because they have got that mandate. Isn't it true that both the financial muscles and the law and the rules we have today are good enough to be able to cope when there is a crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e608	We want to get both the distribution and the drawing up of a state ownership instrument, which we have chosen to call it. There shall not be a general fund that vacuums the market, but an instrument that can be used to secure companies in national ownership, in situations where they are at risk of being sold out of the country. I will be careful to suggest to individual companies for which I see this to be relevant, for my and the Central Party's basic objective is that the companies in Norway, which have Norwegian owners, will also have Norwegian owners in the future, so that there is no need to use State tools to secure the national ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e613	I want to clarify this ‘instrument’. Let's imagine a toolbox where there's a lot of instruments. There are a lot of tools in that toolbox today, and then the Center Party will put another instrument in this box. What separates this instrument from the mechanisms you already have?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e619	I thank you for the question – we wanted to sort this out. Now we can take the basic distribution process in the line exchange here, but we know from the past that, for example, the state must make changes, buy up, we have had situations in which state companies have bought up other state companies, so Stortinget has been involved. Such a state-owned ownership instrument will probably have an independent capital that will enable one to secure, according to what the Storting has said about the purpose, companies in Norwegian ownership without having to walk the road on the Storting on a case-by-case basis. But as I said, this is a thought, an idea of wherever we want, and then it's even more work before we have such an instrument in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e624	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e629	I'm going to start by giving the hall a greeting from SV's business-policy spokesperson, who's faced a challenge with his back. That is why I have been delighted to be his stand-in in this important matter. It's an important message, but you can wonder why the government had to prepare a new big deal about ownership when they had a clear answer in advance: the state should own the least possible. The notification is based on an entirely ideologically determined ambition for minimum state ownership, whereby the companies are categorised according to their level of saleability and its purpose is primarily the highest rate of return over time. So it's a goal in itself for this government to sell as much of our common property as possible. But state ownership is about much, much more than just returns. These are companies that we own together in Norway. It is also the Community's aim to deal with the climate crisis, to contribute to a fair society and to ensure that we have industry in Norway in the future, or that we are prepared – recent times have shown how important it is. So the ownership notice should give instructions to the state companies that coincide with the interests of the owners, that is, the Norwegian people. But it doesn't. Then you can't just answer that the state has to own as little as possible. It should own more. The country should buy up in strategic enterprises, such as will be important in the green transition. The state must think more long-term than the market, which too often thinks of short-term profit. The state must go ahead, and the market can follow. We can't just expect companies to act in a sustainable and responsible way, as it says repeatedly in the notification and in the cancellation. We also have to be able to demand that. We need sustainability reporting requirements and indicators, care assessments, tax policy, to mention something. It should be a general objective that State companies actively contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Paris Agreement. At least it has to be something we can gather about as an important goal for the community. Instead, the ownership message is an example of the government's paralysis of action in the climate crisis. As the world moves, the government is stuck in market liberalism from yesterday. The time for flashing about sustainability and whether the market is over. Now we have to think pragmatically and forward-lookingly, and use the tools we have to solve the challenges of society. State ownership is one of our most important tools, and then it must also be used. Then, at the same time, we are dealing with a proposal for a representative on a reform of the government's leadership, which is a good proposal and a theme in the communication. It is unsustainable that developments in senior pay in government activities contribute to increasing differences in Norway. For the SV's part, we will go beyond what the representative Moxnes does in his proposal, and propose that no leaders of state companies earn more than the Prime Minister. That is a right and fair claim. In addition, the use of bonuses and termination benefits needs to be reduced. The management fees must be reduced and the annual growth in remuneration should not exceed the general salary increase measured in crown value. There we believe that the state must use its ownership position in companies to ensure that companies follow the guidelines for government directors' salaries. Fair distribution requires an active redistribution policy, and then it would only be lacking if the state does not go ahead in reducing the differences in Norway, and that also applies to the companies in which we own. Then I will address the SV's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e648	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e655	The representative of the Supreme Court was very concerned that some of us are concerned that we should have the highest possible return in the state companies. He also says that state ownership should contribute to a fair society. Then my question is: If a company doesn't care about returns, who will it be fair to?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e662	SV believes that managing the store that the Norwegian people own, only according to returns targets and not according to other important interests, such as: achieving the climate goals we have set ourselves is an old-fashioned and slightly forward-looking policy. It is also obvious that there are managers of state-owned companies who are to be wage-driven and contribute to unfair, increased differences. I think it's quite touching that it's exactly the Progress Party – the party for most people – that's so dedicated to taking care of the high wages of the state leaders in this room. It's just worth moving on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e667	It was interesting to hear that only the state companies can help achieve the climate goals. I don't know if the representative of the Supreme Court is aware of what the private companies do in this way, how the development of the private companies is, and how these are still going in order to operate as climate-friendly as possible. These are shipping companies, e.g. Klaveness, who will invest several hundred million dollars in boats. There are other companies that invest hundreds of millions in new ships to be as climate friendly as possible, for this is now natural; it's part of what's included in the strategies of the different companies. So how can the representative of the Supreme Court be so sure that if a company is state-owned, we will achieve the climate goals – which the representative is so very concerned about – much easier?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e672	It is gratifying that more and more private companies also see what the Progress Party does not see, that the climate crisis is a fundamental and major challenge that everyone has to contribute to solving. It's just to say hurray for it. But it is absolutely right that SV believes that we should also use strategic state ownership to solve the crisis, because despite all the good initiatives that are now taking place, we are still not close to being at a pace where we will actually be able to avoid catastrophic and irreversible climate change. This will require, among other things: ensuring that long-term capital is not managed by the market from day to day and short-term profitability, as is often the case in the private market. There the state has an important role to play. This is how we have developed industry in this country for the benefit of the community, and so we can do it in the future for both the community and the climate and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e677	It was interesting to hear the representative Supreme Court in his post talking about selling was getting rid of the community's property. It seems as if he forgets that you will then have an exchange relationship, and that you will get money back, which will still be the property of the community. But then I went along with the idea and thought: let's keep it then and work after the goal of the highest possible return over time. It also benefits the community. But then I realize that the highest possible return over time is not to have, so you have to somehow fool the community for what's rightfully theirs, no matter how you turn around and turn it around, with the eyes of the Socialist Left Party. What I specifically want to ask is: when all the members of the committee, with the exception of the member of the Socialist Left Party, in the vote, indicate that ‘private ownership in Norway should also be the main rule of business’, combined with the contributions of the representative of the Supreme Court, where he said that the goal is to own more, I have to ask almost how much of the business in Norway should be owned by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e684	It is quite clear in the setting and in what I said in my post, that SV believes it is absolutely necessary to increase the state's ownership in order to achieve some of the most important objectives that we as a nation and a community have set ourselves. This appears in the articles on the right as some new and inexperienced idea, but how have we built industry in this country earlier? Well, it's with an active state and an active state ownership of strategic corporations. That's the same thing that SV is proposing now, in the face of the great crisis of our time. To the question of what kind of goals should be governing: I think that for most people who view the climate crisis as the greatest crisis in our time, it is difficult to understand that not only should ownership policy be governed – and not only the maximum possible return in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e691	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e697	There has been a broad political consensus over time on the broad lines of ownership policy. This creates stability and predictability and has helped to help us in Norway to have among the world's leading models of public ownership management. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good cooperation, despite some disagreements on the communication. The left is concerned with the individual's freedom to be born and grow up in a world where the mistakes of previous generations do not restrict the possibilities of unfolding freely. Future generations will benefit from the same freedoms as we have today, and it is therefore essential that the exercise of ownership by the State is carried out in a sustainable, long-term and responsible manner. Good state ownership contributes to creating values, good services and products for the community, both today and in the future. Sustainable companies balance economic, social and environmental conditions in such a way that we contribute to the creation of value in the long term so that today's needs are met without destroying the possibility of future generations, which can meet their needs. This creates secure jobs that take good care of employees and operate in such a way as to guarantee human rights, preserve nature and not contribute to increased climate emissions. The left will always actively pursue climate change and national and international climate action at the same time as the governance of companies in which the country is the owner or the partner. The State must ensure that the various companies have good reporting in terms of sustainability. The State that owns must keep an ongoing assessment of how the ownership interests of companies are reported and it must be an objective that companies implement internationally recognised standards. Transparency in the reporting of new conditions shall be a matter of course. The left's history of equality is a long and proud story. We have been a driver for, among others. to introduce gender quotas — including in 2004 governance. It's naive to think that equality will go its way without quotas and state regulation, even if we hope that as a society we'll get there one day. There are still too few women in the top of Norwegian business today. The low proportion of women means that valuable resources are not used in full. The government has an ambition that it should be at least 40 pst. by both sexes of senior management groups of state companies. The State’s ownership report for 2018 shows that in companies with State ownership there is already an average female share of 40 p.p. on top management. However, the proportion varies between companies and is lower at the level of senior management. A post-study study shows that there is a clear link between diversity in management and the profitability and development of companies. Among other things, an analysis of 1,700 companies in eight countries shows that the most diverse companies are the most innovative. They have 19 pst. higher revenue on innovation and 9 pst. higher operating margins. Research also shows that more homogeneous teams provide lower profitability. The left believes that we must work for more women in top and middle management in state-owned companies, but also in business in general. Real equality and equivalency are not just about equal rights, but really equal opportunities. The left believes private ownership should be the main rule in Norwegian business, because ownership spread across several people gives more power to the inhabitants. It also contributes to the spread of economic power in society and is fundamentally democratic. Widespread private ownership and many small and medium-sized enterprises have been a bottom ground in the social liberal political foundations of the Left. The left considers that the State should have holdings in companies when it is the best solution to meet the different needs of the State, such as: from the point of view of social security and preparedness to secure in Norwegian natural resources and key infrastructure. For us, openness around senior pay in state-owned companies is a matter of course. The remuneration of managers in society in general and in state companies in particular should not exceed what is necessary to maintain and attract the required skills. It is important that companies with state ownership get recruited and keep good managers. Therefore, wages must be competitive. At the same time, moderation is essential to avoid contributing to unreasonable differences or weakening the company's reputation. The difference between those who serve at least and those who serve most in Norway has increased. This has happened to changing governments over many years. This is something all politicians must be aware of. In particular, low inequality compared to other countries should be a fundamental value in Norwegian society, which is linked to trust. When inequalities increase in Norway, it is not because those who earn less than or around the average get less to walk with, but mainly because they leave at the top. In 1997, the monthly salary was 10 pst. the best paid 2.8 times the average salary of the 10 pst. the lowest wage. In 2017, the corresponding figures were 3.8.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e720	State ownership of enterprises has been a success factor in Norway. It has provided companies with a long-term perspective and an opportunity to grow both nationally and internationally. Many Norwegian companies would not have been there today if they had not had that security in their backs. The direct ownership of the State includes companies in which the ownership of the State is directly managed by a ministry. It is currently 73 companies. The framework for State ownership has been established since the early 2000s. This has worked well, and there has been a broad political consensus on it. The message is a continuation of it, and no major changes will be made to it. We will continue to have strong public ownership in Norway. A large and active state ownership also means that the state has a great responsibility for how to use ownership. We are pleased that the Communication reinforces the objective of the State contributing through its ownership to sustainable value creation. Most companies in the country's portfolio will be affected by one or more of the UN's sustainability targets, and companies must have room for action to adapt to changing environments. The State that owns expects companies to have an overall plan for sustainable value creation, that the plan is concrete in clear objectives and strategies it is reported on, and that the choice of the level of risk is an integral part of the strategy. The State that owns also expects companies to be the leaders in their work on responsible activities and companies to work to safeguard human rights and employee rights, to reduce their climate and environmental footprint and to prevent economic crime. Equally important is the fact that companies have a well-founded tax policy that is publicly available, that due diligence is carried out in line with recognised practices, and that companies are open about essential areas, objectives and actions in the field of responsible activities. Research has pointed to the link between diversity in management and the profitability and development of the company. It is therefore positive that, according to the State ownership report for 2018, there is an average female share of 40 pst. of top management of state companies. The share varies between companies. It is also positive that one wants to continue a strategy of recruiting women. However, it turns out that there is still a job to do to create diversity in the management of companies, especially below top management levels. The expectation of moderation in remuneration is evident in this message. It is important that companies with State ownership are recruited and maintained good managers. At the same time, moderation is essential to avoid contributing to unreasonable differences or weakening the company's reputation. Therefore, the remuneration of senior executives must be competitive but not profitable compared to similar companies or businesses and must be moderated. It is a responsibility of the board, and there is a clear expectation that this consideration will be taken seriously in determining and adjusting remuneration. Furthermore, the Communication expects companies to be open about the design, level and development of remuneration for senior employees. The State is committed to the transparency of the Board of Directors’ remuneration statement on how remuneration contributes to the company’s objectives, how, in determining and adjusting remuneration, consideration is given to the competitiveness, non-profit-making nature of remuneration and how moderation is taken into account. The government has also announced that its policies will be revised in the light of changes in the general share rules on remuneration for senior management. It also applies to the policy and reporting of the Governing Board and its treatment by the general meeting. The changes in the rules of the general stock law on wage policy will increase the transparency of wage policy for directors in listed public limited-liability companies. Transparency is central to contributing to the effective influence of shareholders on the remuneration policy of the company. One of the objectives is to enable shareholders to influence the pay and other remuneration frameworks in order to create a pay culture that promotes the long-term interests of the company. The amendments require listed public limited-liability companies to draw up guidelines on wage policy, to submit guidelines to the general meeting for voting, to publish the remuneration policy and to draw up annual salary reports. This Communication continues the good tradition of strong public ownership in Norway while reinforcing the sustainability requirement. These are good changes and correct public ownership for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e745	The state's direct ownership of Norwegian companies is significant and includes 73 companies. The companies provide goods and services that are important to society and the state manages large amounts on behalf of the community. In order to maintain these values, they must be well managed and managed in a responsible manner. Due to its significant ownership, professional and predictable management of ownership is not only crucial for the companies but also important for confidence in the Norwegian capital market. The exercise of state ownership in Norway has long gained international recognition. A success factor has been the framework for ownership with a clear division of roles between the owner, the board and the managing director, which has been established since the early 2000s. These frameworks have worked well and have broad political support. I'm very pleased that a Joint Nutrition Committee is still joining these frameworks. State ownership shall only be used when it is best to meet the different needs of the country, such as: social security and preparedness, ring-fenced effects from head offices and ownership of natural resources. Norway will also have significant state ownership in the future. For companies operating in competition, the State that owns a measure of maximum return over time. For companies that are primarily not in competition with others, the State which owns different sectoral policy objectives has the most effective means of achieving them. Achieving good goals over time requires companies to be sustainable. It implies that companies balance economic, social and environmental conditions in a way that contributes to long-term value creation. The state's expectations for the companies are further developed, and I am pleased with the broad consensus of the Committee on Most Expectations. The overall expectations of the owner allow the boards to adapt their work in the different areas of the company. Setting detailed expectations or requirements, which are addressed by the minority in some areas, is poorly consistent with the role of company law between the owner and the board and violates the framework that has made Norwegian state ownership so successful over time. We now expect companies to have a sustainable value creation plan. Such a plan presupposes that companies understand drivers of value creation, i.e. the factors that affect their long-term value creation. It is significant in the light of current societal changes affecting the company. One example is climate change and subsequent risks and opportunities that companies have to deal with. The new expectation of having a sustainable value creation plan makes it apparent that the State that owns it is important to integrate climate risk into the strategy of companies. The government also expects the companies to be the leaders in their work on the responsible business. This includes, inter alia: to identify and manage significant risk areas for those affected by the activity and to follow internationally recognised guidelines. Furthermore, the government has clear expectations of the company's transparency of sustainability and responsible activities. It includes their objectives and measures. The standards to which companies report are up to the companies themselves. There are big differences between these 73 companies. New and improved standards are constantly being developed. The companies themselves are the closest to assessing which standards are appropriate for their business, and of course we closely follow up the reporting of companies in the ownership dialogue. Another area where the government has expectations is management pay. It is essential for companies to be recruited and maintain good managers, and the remuneration of managers must be competitive. At the same time, we expect not to be profitable compared to similar businesses. The government has a clear expectation that moderation will be taken into account. The government has strengthened the expectations of the company's transparency about the design, level and development of management wages. In addition, we are now reviewing the government’s guidelines on senior pay in the light of new ownership announcements and changes in the general stock law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e770	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e775	The Council of State underlined the considerable state ownership of its contribution, and I agree with that. It's significant, and it has a long and proud tradition. If you take Hydro, Yara, Telenor, Equinor, Kongsberg or, for that matter, DNB, all these locomotives are in each of their areas. Some of them are industrial, others financial. But they are quite exceptional on, among other things. Oslo Exchanges and is part of this considerable ownership. Does the Council of State agree with the signing that they now have the significant position they have in the form that they have been State owned?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e780	The state ownership, at good and bad, has a long history, and many of the companies that the representative brings up are also characterized by their state ownership. So I absolutely agree that there has been an important part of the history and development of these companies. But I also want to add in the light of the debate that has been so far on this matter, that we have a significant state ownership in this country, and a state ownership that is much greater than in most other countries we compare with. It will also apply after this big message has been presented, where we have outlined the companies into three different categories. And where we've also opened up for sales, or sales, of some companies, we're still going to have a large state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e785	I did not feel that I was getting an answer to the question entirely the way I really hoped. I believe that these companies individually represent a story that has indirectly or directly led through the actions of the state, or actions here in the Storting, that these companies have acquired the position they have. It has thus contributed to this – active ownership has strengthened the companies. An example is Hydro’s purchase of Vale – control of the value chain from aluminium production is essential for Hydro’s investments. Yara's separation from Hydro at one time was completely strategically correct and important. Telenor's transformation from Televerket to Telenor was absolutely essential for Telenor to be a giant international today. The same for Kongsberg and the construction around Kongsberg and Equinor – the formation through Statoil and Hydro's gas division. These are also political actions in partnership with industry, the board, etc. Hasn't there been a strength for these companies? Is that not a recognition of the value of state ownership in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e796	I tried to answer the question to the representative, although he might not have been quite satisfied with the answer. But I fully agree that the state that owns is a good owner. That's also what's our goal: to act like a professional and good owner. I believe that this is something the state has been doing for a long time. It's something that the companies we own value: that we take care of the role of owner in a professional and good way. That's something that we get feedback on in the market, that we as the owner are seen as a good owner. That's why I think it's important that we, as a good owner, have been inside these companies over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e801	That's when my question is: with the really good story, the good ownership exercise and these industrial locomotives – why is it a goal for the government and the Minister of Industry to reduce state ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e806	In the ownership notice, we divide the companies into three different categories, and those are the companies that are in category 1, which are the companies where we have no other goal than the highest possible return over time by opening up to sell us down or sell us out. There will be a market and commercial assessment of, and when to make provision for, that. But the other companies, the ones in category 2 and category 3, we own for other reasons. It can be about things that the representative also mentions, that there are important companies for us, that the head office is important to have, and the competence that it gives to have a head office, the development that it gives us as a nation to have a head office, is also important to have. So that's not how we want to sell out all the companies that we own today. That's for some of them in category 1 we open up for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e811	On 25 March, the European Commission presented guidelines for a more systematic review of foreign direct investment in enterprises and technologies, in order to prevent third-country representatives from taking advantage of the crisis to secure ownership of enterprises and technologies that are critical to the EU. In Norway, the Stortinget has taken decisions that build up at the same time, but it is difficult to see how the government has followed this up. My question then is: what measures will the government take to ensure national ownership, among other things. in particularly significant Norwegian enterprises and in Norwegian technologies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e819	The representative’s question contains two aspects. One aspect concerns this with hostile purchases or purchases from countries where we need to safeguard Norwegian interests. It is currently governed by the Security Act and is thus seen under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. But it has something to do with what the EU is doing about it now. That's something we're following, that's something we're aware of. We also see that the Storting is aware of this, because there is a so-called loose proposal attached to it. The other aspect is probably a little bit more general, as I see it. We're in a little bit of a special time right now, and I can't rule out that buying companies can be relevant to the situation, without any concrete plans. But I won't stand here and rule out that it can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e826	To switch to another theme, the government announces that they want to sell. It's a little hard to get what's going to be better in our society because the government is not taking these companies away. It is very likely that new owners will not be Norwegian, but foreign. One company I know created a lot of debate last time the government of Solberg wanted to sell it, is Flytoget. This is not directly on the salsa list right now, but it is being opened for disposal, and I understand that there is a long-term goal to get rid of the ownership of the Flytrain. Then my question is, Is it relevant in this ageing period to sell the Fly train?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e835	I, for my part, have a more pragmatic approach than ideological approach to the question of which category 1 companies will be involved in sales during this period. Now, through the state budget, we have been authorised to sell some companies, but that is a commercial assessment of whether and when that might be the case. That's where I think we need to have a more pragmatic approach to that issue, because it requires that it's a market, and it requires that we get a fair and good price for those companies. Now, the situation is out there as it is, and it makes a little bit of a different assessment of whether and when that might happen. But now at least we're presenting this big message with assessments in the different categories, and then we might come back if we see that it's a problem issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e840	Now there are special times, and that with stock prices, etc. is very unstable and falling. The government also has some salsa powers given by the Storting. So my question is, is there going to be a hall in a company where the state is the owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e845	We have previously agreed on the sale of GIEK Credit Insurance, and there are some formalities that need to be in place before that, as we have seen, finally come into the box. It's going to continue. At the same time, as the representative says, it's a little different times, and the courses are a little different than they were in the fall, when the government budget was adopted. I have nothing to say to Stortinget now, I have nothing to convey to Stortinget now, on the front that concerns sales or sales of companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e850	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e855	Community ownership is a proud part of our democratic history in Norway. Next year it is 50 years since the Stortinget decided that we should set up our own state company so that the great values of the North Sea would benefit the entire population, and facilitate even more industrial workplaces and a future that gives us all better security and economy. It's this common wealth and these values that we use today, when we deal with the situation with a virus that nobody had thought about at the time, but that shows how basic it is to have ownership of important common values, and not least build up long-term industrial policies where the state is part of those that contribute. And we need to learn from that today, because it is clear that we also need to invest more in new technology development, in new industries and in future value creation in the years to come. There's been a lot of talk about conversion in recent years. That conversion has been missing. Last year we got the biggest deficit we've ever had in trade with the rest of the world for mainland Norway. We believe it is obvious that the community and the choices we make in the Grand Duchy in the years to come will affect whether we actually succeed in that transformation, so that future generations can also have values in place to handle, for example. new virus situations or other community-challenge crises. It is not just foreign trade that is a major economic problem for Norway. Several places in our country are up to 40 pst. of people of working age outside of work, and we know that the economic differences between people are increasing. It is also linked to the need for more industrial activity in Norway to provide more well-paid, secure jobs. Then it is important for us, as the Labour Party and the Red-Green parties propose, for example. Decides today that we will have a tool to buy up in companies where the community serves it. It is important for our common security whether we vote today to also consider how state and national ownership can contribute to achieving preparedness and security policy objectives. I really hope that the right parties can also assess that, in the light of the situation we're in, but unfortunately it seems that they're going to vote that way, too, and that's enough on an ideological basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e872	The working party is concerned that state ownership fulfils important functions. Today, both in its articles and in its replies, the rapporteur has been concerned that the state is a very large owner of Oslo Børs, we have a large public ownership in Norway. But the largest group of Oslo Stock Exchange owners are foreign owners. It is a cross of thought, because the state has owned has often been justified by the lack of capital in Norway. As stated in the government’s notification, there are ‘market failures in parts of the capital market’. Then, in order to retain the Norwegian ownership, it has sometimes been necessary to have a state ownership. That way, we've been able to keep a head office many times, and we've maintained competence and authority. This is particularly relevant in the time we are in now, when companies often retreat to their home country in low economic hours. Then state ownership can become even more important. There are some things written in the Communication about when state ownership is important for social security and preparedness, but it is only related to defence interests. There is no doubt that Nammo and Kongsberg are very important ownership of the state, but there are also other areas of social security and preparedness where it is important that we have a state ownership. I want to mention technology around our phones, data security, medicine production, satellite technology, infrastructure – the basics of our society are that we have control. The Labour Party has also always been concerned with controlling natural resources, and very much of the state ownership is linked to our natural resources. The representative of Ørsal Johansen was at the sale of Cermaq. Yes, who was the buyer when the government of Solberg I chose to sell Cermaq to Japan? It was Mitsubishi, and that means today is 35 pst. of all our agricultural concessions owned by the rest of the world. The rapporteur has also been concerned about the exchange ratio today, i.e. when you sell something, you get a value back. Yes, I do not know if it was the best sale – there may not have been many years of profit from Cermaq you have needed to earn back the purchase price that was given. It is therefore important that government parties consider supporting proposal No. 23, which is also about that we sometimes have to keep a state ownership, or maybe actually buy, because we want to keep businesses in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e883	I'm not going to help extend the debate, but I think sometimes the story becomes a bit deficient when we try to tell the story of state ownership. In any case, it becomes deficient when you describe it as the only strategic approach that was taken on the ownership side of Stortinget when the oil age started in Norway was that we created Statoil. It wasn't the whole strategic grip of the Stortinget or the government took that time. It was to establish a three-part strategy for the Norwegian approach to the oil adventure. It was a private company: Saga. It was a majority-owned private company: Norsk Hydro. And it was a whole-time state company, Statoil. It was not many years before one realized that that strategy also had to be adjusted to what was called the State's direct financial involvement. Together, a shared strategy was adopted, and all of these companies were involved in building up the values and competences of the oil age in Norway. It's taken as an example from Norsk Hydro. It was not the Norwegian state that built Norsk Hydro, but it was the Norwegian state that bought the shares back from France in the 1960s. So this is a story that is not told in line with what actually happened, or who stood behind the construction. It has been important to maintain the dynamism between state and private ownership, and that is also what government parties have stressed in this Communication. This is also the reason why, among other things. The government of Stoltenberg and several governments have been committed to a partial privatisation of Telenor and Statoil – to bring that dynamics into the system. And I can as well describe the history of the Workers' Party in the last 30 years as introducing private partnership in state companies, among others. in the two largest Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e892	The debate may have been a little narrow in relation to what ownership is all about. I'm not going to try to expand now at the end, but just say that historically – not least in the change of lines with the Minister of Industry – the state ownership, public ownership, has been important. It has been important for people, it has been important for work, it has been important to manage our natural resources in a good way that benefits the community. History really goes back to how we regulate our hydropower, how we gradually managed to build industry on it – and up to what we are today, where we have some amazing, great industrial companies that are leading nationally and internationally on technology and innovation, and the new future lies ahead of us. We believe that both historically, in the present and in the future there is a good reason why the state should also own important industrial enterprises in the future. We should not initially have the objective of reducing state ownership. Here we hear especially the right attempt to interpret the state ownership as, let's say, a confusion of private ownership. That's not the reality. It's a misinterpretation of what's now. It is not that there is an overwhelming amount of industrially available capital in Norway for investment in our industrial enterprises. Had it been, we would have had a real discussion. But that's the discussion Right is trying to take up at an artificial level, because they have an ideological approach – and they've always had it: they want to privatize not only the state-owned companies, but even important natural resources, important inputs in Norwegian society. It's Right's very clear ideology and the input to this. Therefore, there is no ‘pragmatic approach’ to what one should own and not own in the ownership message, but it is an ideological approach to owning the least possible. And it's not just about the companies where you have business purposes – no, it's really about the total state ownership. It's the ideological approach of the right-hand party to the ownership message. It is, with respect to reporting, an industrial poverty that lies in the wake of it – a lack of vision for the future where, in partnership with the private, the state can further develop, strengthen, use opportunities to further develop the amazing natural resources we have, or take new strategic positions to further develop Norway as a port. We have such opportunities within an active and good approach to it. Unfortunately, the right parties do not have this in this ownership message, and I think that is a pity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e904	The debate got a little warm on the tap, and then I was inspired by the representative of Aasland to take the floor. Thank you for the debate. It's been said from the left, the red-green side, a lot where you almost use the word "ideology" as something a little wrong, a little guffy and a little disgusting. I think having an ideological guideline to go after could be better for many. There have also been some stories of history, and my colleague from the Right Tom-Christen Nilsen corrected in some of the history. I have to straighten out a little bit of the debate as well, and then I have to go to Jens Stoltenberg's first and second government, which sold out the Kreditkassen, Norsas, Norsk Medisinaldepot, the State Forest Plant Center, and sold myself into Telenor, Statoil, Kommunalbanken, Arcus-gruppe, VESO, DNB and Olivin – and that was in the first government. In the second government they sold out BaneTele, Itas amb and Secora. Cermaq, Hydro and StatoilHydro sold themselves into the market. Erna Solberg's government has so far sold itself out of Cermaq and down into Entra Holding, Entra ASA and SAS. Now it's listed, at least there's no doubt about who sold himself the most down. I don't know if all of these sales and sales were ideologically tufted off by the red-greens, but at least there's been some sort of global assessment here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e917	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e934	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for the replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e941	Initially, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in this matter. Today's case is one of many issues in which reality has changed fundamentally in the last month. It is challenging to deal with such issues now, and we need to ask ourselves whether the situation is temporary, or whether changing the basic challenge picture will have lasting consequences. A lot of people say that restructuring will happen in this industry as well. At the same time, the crisis is a reminder that one must have a more long-term view of this industry's framework conditions. The main weight of cruises in Norway is in the West. Stavanger, Bergen, Flåm, Ålesund and Geiranger/Hellesylt account for about half of all landings and approaches. The mountain is the deciduous largest destination, where there can often be 4000 to 5000 guests during one day of the season. In 2005, a new cruise ship was inaugurated in Eidfjord, and two of us sitting in the hall participated in adopting a financial contribution to it from the county council, and the municipality was also inside. Similarly, a number of areas developed strategies to attract cruise tourism, for example, Stavanger. These strategies succeeded, both in Eidfjord and in Stavanger. The capacity of port and reception facilities was increased and several cruise passengers arrived. Some years later, you now feel that you have reached a limit on how many you can accept. There is no disagreement that there may be such limits. The majority of the Committee considers that this is something that needs to be assessed locally and that local authorities have the opportunity to do so for as long as they are in the current legislation. There is a large majority in the Committee which does not support the 17 proposals submitted but which also sees the issue of the limitations that may be necessary for sustainability, environmental reasons or for purely practical reasons in individual ports. A central concession system, proposed by the proposers, with a limited number of concessions per year, will immediately face very difficult border-bordering problems and would probably be contrary to fundamental rules on international shipping. As pointed out in the comments, reference is made to the rules now in force for the World Heritage fjords. Extension of this legislation will make a good contribution to reducing the environmental impact of industry and increasing sustainability. Another significant contribution is land flow. These ships spend a lot of time ashore, and shore-side electricity can have a major impact on both local and climate pollution. For example, it will. be able to halve emissions per passenger kilometre for the industry. Traveling by ship is a great way to experience Norwegian nature. That might be one of the reasons why there are over a million recreational boats, and that the Hurtigruten has become an iconic journey in line with the Orient Express and the Trans-Siberian Railway. It is a great potential for increasing sustainability and getting more local activity and value creation out of travel. This picture includes boat trips as an important part of the whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e958	The question of how Norway can create good businesses and the values that many will visit our beautiful coast is important. Cruise tourism has been growing rapidly in recent years, and there has become a lot of attention around the fact that cruise tourists spend less money on the communities they visit than other tourist groups do. Cruise tourism also creates environmental challenges, perhaps in particular by the lack of land-flow and shore-side power requirements, so that many cruise ships run engines at berth and generate local pollution in addition to their CO 2 emissions. The Labour Party has therefore put forward a proposal in this case that the Stortinget should be given a case of sustainability in the cruise industry. There has been a discussion about the concept of sustainability, at least both economic and environmental. Right now, when no one wants to travel on the cruise, it is not hard to see that it has also been attractive to have visited these cruise ships, in addition to the problems described in the proposal for a representative. Ports in Norway are largely municipal owned, and many municipalities have used considerable resources to attract cruise ships to their ports. Many cruise tourists buy excursions from local actors and visit attractions that result in a better economy. Cruise ship visits are largely localised and should continue to be so, but there is an exception and in the case of cruise ships in the northern or Arctic regions. There is much that suggests that preparedness is too poor, and that an accident with a cruise ship in the Arctic could lead to that we will not be able to save the passengers. I would like to refer to the two projects SARINOR 1 and SARINOR 2, which are run by the maritime industry itself, including the Coast Guard, and which show that the large growth in cruise activity in polar waters has occurred without the basic infrastructure being able to operate within the same risk framework as can be expected elsewhere in Norway. For this reason, the Workers' Party has also proposed that the northern regions should further progress in the preparedness assessments related to cruise traffic in the northern regions. With this, I address the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e972	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e977	This matter was brought forward and, to the extent that it was also dealt with at a time when one was concerned about the pressures of cruise tourism on towns and communities along the coast. The 2020 Cruise season is likely to experience the same cities and towns without cruise tourists. It could be a good scale to come back and say what a likes best – when there were many cruise tourists, or when there was no one. I think the truth and the best solution are in the middle of these situations. I hope that the government party and the Progress Party will see the possibility that we now have, when it comes to the cruise industry, to take a restart, see what kind of cruise tourism we want in Norway, and what leads we can put on the nutrition. That is why I should like to see more people be able to support proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, where we ask the government in an appropriate way to put forward a collective case on farm power in the cruise industry. I see it kind of polite that in the previous case I made a little fool of the use of the word «rescue», but let's put it a little aside in this case, because that's what this is all about. So I'd like to make a little comment on the post from the Workers' Party on cruise traffic in the north. We will come back to this later issue of maritime safety. Even if one is not prepared to handle a cruise ship with 4000 passengers such as: is in the process of searching in the north, of course it does not necessarily mean that preparedness is too poor. We need to take the discussion if we want to skip to these cruise ships in these areas. Are these passengers aware that there is no one who is ready with a helicopter to come and pick them up if the boat they are on, gets trouble? I think a more honest communication link to preparedness in the Nordic region is also an assessment. Proposal No. 4 think I'm about a theme that one should take seriously. If I can hope that new times can make a new assessment, it is that the government should endorse proposal No. 2 and proposal No. Four in a row.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e990	First of all, I would like to remind you of the government's goal of the tourism policy. It is to have maximum overall value creation within sustainable frameworks and also for cruise traffic. The cruise industry will take into account climate and environment, like other economic activities, and I also want cruise traffic to contribute more to local value creation. I would nevertheless like to remind you that cruise already represents an important market for local business in many destinations, and that is – as the representative Pollestad also said – what we will be reminded of for months to come, when the impact of the current corona epidemic becomes too full into travel life. Norwegian destinations will be heavily affected by the current crisis in cruise traffic. Many of their proposals are related to climate and the environment. The Government has the ambition to halve emissions from domestic shipping and fishing by 2030. Our 2019 Green Shipping Action Plan reviews possible approaches to how we will succeed in this, including cruise traffic. A concrete government action to reduce local pollution is the new environmental requirements introduced in the World Heritage fjords in 2019, and the Maritime Directorate is now examining whether these requirements should also apply in other Norwegian waters. This proposal for a representative proposes that the authorities should instruct the cruise industry to use services from local businesses, such as local guides or food producers. I believe that traders themselves must be free to decide whether – and with whom – they will conclude agreements. Norwegian companies are themselves responsible for developing attractive goods and services that the cruise companies and their passengers want to buy. On the part of the authorities, we facilitate increased innovation in enterprises, including: through the schemes of Innovation Norway. The government’s decision to turn the tourism mission to Innovation Norway from marketing to development work has as one of its objectives the strengthening of travel life products offered by Norwegian companies in Norwegian travel destinations. The ongoing corona pandemic has hit travel life very hard, and also the cruise companies are now down to count. It is impossible to say how extensive the ringing effects of this will be, but we already know that Norwegian cruise destinies will face a different reality and other challenges in the next few years, than they did when this proposal was presented and discussed in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1005	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1010	The cruise industry is the most controversial part of Norwegian travel. Now we will have a year and a season where the level of conflict will be low, because there will be fewer cruise ships. Then I and the Center Party think it's a good idea to use that year to also make the deviations associated with cruise tourism that have to be made. My question is: will the Council of State be open to bring together a case on the cruise industry and various challenges associated with it, including: part of the proposals made in the draft representative here?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1017	We're in a special situation now. One thing is that we will get, as the representative Pollestad said, a period without much cruise traffic, and what are we going to spend that period for? Innovation Norway is set to do a job for us in terms of travel life. But standing here now and saying just how this is going to be going, I think it's a little bit difficult. Now the government has called different industries to meetings to discuss the way forward and the way out of this corona situation. What distinguishes travel life from some other industries is the way it has been affected. It happened quickly, and it's going to be a long time for travel. Travel life is going to have different needs at different times. So we have to look at travel life again, and we have to involve Innovation Norway and the industry itself in this and in the various assessments that have to be made in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1022	For very many of these cities, towns and villages that are hit by the decline in cruise tourism, this will affect the entire tourist industry, because there is a decline in travel life, or else. It may be a bit on the side of the case we are now discussing, but I dare to ask whether the Ministry of Food and Fisheries and Innovation Norway has its own strategy or some plans for how to help several Nordics this summer spend the holiday to Norway, for example. to compensate for the loss of cruiseturists.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1028	It's a special summer we go into. It's the health councils that always apply, which are also leading for how much we can move around, but we're opening up society a little bit after a while. At least I have a hope that it will be possible to travel on vacation in Norway this summer. There is also a background to the fact that we have now changed the mandate of Innovation Norway, so that the money previously reserved for marketing abroad can now be used for marketing in Norway. We get to hope that people, even though they really want to travel on the cabin this summer, also use the travel life we have, that they use the hotels and travel life actors around the whole country, and that this will be the summer you will experience the Lofoten, the Western Sea, the Southland, the Ryfyl Islands, the Røros or what you have to dream of. I think it's a market among the Nordics, at least this summer, when we don't get that far into the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1033	We know that there are problems about the preparedness for cruise ships in polar waters, and what I would like an answer to is whether there are assessments of the number of ships that should be in polar areas at any time, and perhaps the size of those cruise ships, i.e. how many passengers there should be on board. Have any such assessments been made with a view to putting restrictions on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1040	The question of preparedness, particularly in relation to the northern regions, which the representative really asks about, is the best thing to address to the Ministry of Justice, which has that responsibility. However, last November the government decided to appoint a sample to assess the maritime safety and preparedness challenges associated with cruise traffic. It is quite right, as the representative says, that it gives us some extra challenges with tourism and not least cruise traffic in the northern regions, both because it is long, because it is inaccessible, and because weather and wind conditions can be unpredictable. This is something that the Ministry of Justice is aware of and working with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1047	It was opened here to talk a little bit about the situation we're in. There are several messages that are now coming from the government. On the one hand, we are now allowed to travel to the cabin again. The Prime Minister has challenged us to be tourists in his own holiday country this year. At the same time, the Minister of Health says that we must avoid unnecessary leisure trips. I don't know what should be necessary leisure trips, which you absolutely have to do, so I wondered a little about what you think of as the necessary leisure trips you can do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1052	The restrictions under which we now live, as imposed by the government, have also been put on the advice of and in consultation with the health authorities. As we've gotten better control of the infection, we've also opened up our society more and more. Now the kindergartens are starting, and the schools are going to start up, and the cabin ban has been eased. We have a hope that, although we still have to live with some restrictions, we can open up society even more, that it will be possible to travel on both necessary and unnecessary leisure trips to the summer, and that we can use at least our own country and our own neighbourhood as a holiday destination. But I, as Minister of Industry, am also concerned that people who have the opportunity to do so can also spend money and thus support business. It is clear that it is nice to travel on a cabin, but it is even better for business if you take a hotel overnight and take advantage of some catering services, travel life actors, experiences, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1061	It's good to be back in place. I have noted that many different government councils who have commented on this proposal – there are many state councils involved in its comments, because this proposal reflects quite a number of fields – all the time refers to the space for action, that there is room for action in the new port and water law. I was involved in the transport committee, and I can't see that there's so much room for action. They can circumvent and interpret the legislation in a way, but there must be a reason why 13 local cruise ports had their proposal, in 14 points – in February last year, it was well – that SV has carried on here to Stortinget. Does the Council of State not see that they actually have a point when they ask for more tools to regulate cruise traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1068	It is clear that, as was said earlier, the cruise industry is among the most discussed, or discussed, parts of the tourism industry. Well, there are many people who see that it has both positive and negative aspects, because on the one hand it brings people in, it gives jobs, and it gives opportunities for business in that municipality. At the same time, pollution is perhaps one of the most challenging things that has been brought forward. At present, municipalities have great opportunities to limit the number of passengers and the number of cruise calls through their role as owners of ports and through the agreements they enter into with shipping companies. I understand that there is a difficult dilemma for the municipalities – on the one hand to attract and on the other hand to want to make demands or to facilitate this to be as consistent as possible with the communities as such. Therefore, it is good to see that we are now demanding world heritage and emissions there, land flow – a lot of important measures have been taken to make it even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1073	I thank you for the answer, but I record that it can't be that easy for the Left not to go further with the green sector in terms of cruise traffic. It has to be a little bad, because we're actually doing it in a lot of suggestions here, where we want to make demands, where we want to follow up the local cruise ports to make demands, to set up the industry on a shift. One of these – we can almost say – low-hanging fruits that it should have been possible to implement is what nine major tourism organisations launched in 2018: the road map for sustainable tourism. There we wanted the stricter requirements that were south of the 62nd parallel, of course also to apply north of the 62nd parallel. It is quite incredible that it has not been completed before. I see that the Minister for the Environment is interested in looking at it. Can the council say a little bit about how she will follow up on this from her side?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1078	Right now we are in a very special situation for the cruise industry, but also for tourism and travel in general. In the future, it will be a great job for me as Minister of Industry to have a dialogue with the travel industry, because we will once again return to a slightly more normalized everyday life than this season is going to be. Then there's a question about how we're going to get through it, but also, how are we going to be on the other side? My experience is that travel life in general is of course very busy with earnings and what they are now in the middle of with lack of earnings, but also that they are concerned with sustainability. They are concerned with what tourists will also ask in the future: how can we become an attractive and sustainable destination? It must apply to the whole of travel life. These include: The discussions we are about to have with the industry, which is about the way out of the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1083	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1090	It is a shame that today we have a completely different backstop for the cruise industry than we had just two to three months ago. But things will, as the Council of State says, be normalized again – we get to believe that. At least we'll get a good deal on our way to normalization. It is true that not a virus’s ludicrous curve jump that is to lay regulations on the cruise industry for us. It is wise and thoughtful political decisions to make. There are three strong reasons why SV has put forward this proposal for a representative, and everyone who has taken part in the debate on cruise traffic knows it: the cruise boat and the cruiseturist have been a disaster at emissions. It's indisputable. Cruise boats are getting bigger and bigger, they're getting more and more, and they're completely seizing small destinations. In addition, the cruiseturist left very little money locally. Cruise companies also use too little local service providers when clapping to berths. These are facts. This has been reportedly the cruise ports and the most attractive cruise municipalities for the longest time. It was therefore the 13 cruise ports, consisting of both the largest cities in Norway and the World Heritage fjords, in February 2019 that provided a list of 14 common environmental requirements for the cruise industry. They would be helped by national authorities both to make demands on industry and to get local tools to guide the industry. That's why SV responded to this by taking all these requirements here to Stortinget. In addition, SV presents a proposal that we think is both forward-looking and tense, and that addresses regulatory mechanisms that many have requested. So we're proposing a kind of concession arrangement for the cruise industry, where a limited number of concessions are auctioned out every year, based on the resilience of nature and coastal communities. Low emission requirements for sailing and zero emissions at berth and for the purchase of local food and the use of local guides may be set in the concession terms. So this auction is not about overcoming the destination with the money to buy access. No, the actors will shift to the best ecological criteria, the best use of local guides and services, the best use of local food and resources in total, and also be best placed to work and pay. Consider what such a solution could have meant for the cruise industry and for the local environment. No, nobody supported this in the committee. If it sounded exciting, you could possibly say that we could sort this out. Then the committee members could have made other proposals – but no, nothing. I'm addressing all the suggestions that we've been making. I would also like to announce that we will support the Workers' Party and the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1106	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1111	Finally, I would like to reiterate that the majority of the Committee's comments also mention the extension of the ECA area, where reference is made to the fact that the use of heavy oil is already regulated in 87 pst. of the waters around Svalbard. At the same time, it is right to say that that kind of regulation is difficult for Norway to introduce unilaterally across the whole area we are now talking about, because large parts of it is in international waters. I would like to make some comments to the committee chairman's comments on the proposal to undertake a sustainable cruise industry. I am not a stranger because it may be natural to look into that proposal on a later occasion. Right now I believe and observe that we are in a situation where it is difficult to engage in a dialogue with companies and businesses on the brink of bankruptcy about what to invest in to convert companies into a completely different operation. I think one should be aware that there are relatively large capital investments on both land and sea in these cases, and we are right now in a situation where they have more than enough work to make sure to keep creditors away from the company and to keep themselves alive to see if they can exist in the future. A good basis has been laid through the Green Maritime Communication and through the measures now being taken for shore-side flows around the country. I think we get a good chance to get back to the question when the situation is more normalized, and when it's possible to imagine having a dialogue with the industry about something other than how it's going to survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1120	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1137	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1142	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation in dealing with the matter. The maritime industry is one of the most important industries in Norway. The intention of the representative proposal is to strengthen the competitive advantage of this industry by increasing the number of Norwegian seafarers. The whole Storting is behind that goal. Norway will continue to be a strong maritime nation, which is why we need Norwegian seafarers. The representative proposal assumes that Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian coast will lead to several Norwegian seafarers, and proposes a party-based selection with a tied mandate. The Committee shall propose legislative changes and arrangements for the implementation of Norwegian terms and conditions of pay for shipping in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian seas. The committee's proposal shall be presented in the notified maritime industry notification. That notification will be sent to the Stortinget during the harvest session and will provide a detailed assessment of the proposal to introduce Norwegian pay and working conditions. There is reason to believe that the work of the sample will significantly delay the notification. External investigations make it clear that there is a legal room for action to introduce Norwegian pay and working conditions. It is also worth noting that the professional legal assessments are somewhat different and extend from a more conservative to a more liberal interpretation. Therefore, the major issue will not be whether it can be introduced but whether it should be introduced. Then we have to look at the assumed consequences. Menon Economics is the most positive. Their investigation says that an introduction can increase employment by 1 000 seafarers living in Norway, but at the same time says that socio-economic costs can be significant. From other quarters it is claimed that the introduction of Norwegian pay and working conditions on the contrary can lead to fewer Norwegian seafarers, as boat owners can no longer afford to hire Norwegians outside Norwegian waters due to increased compensation of employees. Some also trace the end of the maritime clusters in the West. The net pay scheme may be jeopardised. It may have major consequences for more than 11,000 seafarers who are part of the scheme today. So it's not a simple thing. The majority of the population therefore landed on a sample with an unbundled and expanded mandate. The Committee shall strengthen Norwegian maritime competence, ensure Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships, ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian shipping companies and reach its conclusion in parallel with the processing of the maritime notification and thus do not delay it. We want the industry to be strengthened in its entirety, including several Norwegian seafarers. We are clear that we want the sample to also assess how the net pay scheme can be strengthened, and not least assess the possibilities and consequences of introducing Norwegian pay and working conditions. We want to put the Norwegian seafarers first. We're going to do what we can for Norwegian seafarers, but it's going to be done the best and the right way. I'll take up the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1159	The President may inform you that the vote does not need to be taken – only the proposals have to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1164	Norwegian pay and working conditions are fundamental to the Workers' Party. We believe that these are absolutely essential factors – whether it is within the industrial enterprise, whether it is on the construction site, whether it is on a rig, whether it is on an oil platform, or whether it is on board a boat that is on a Norwegian base or in Norwegian waters. Based on this completely natural justification and the natural comparison, we have made a proposal, together with the Centerpartiet and SV, to ensure Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian base. We had believed that such a proposal could have a majority in the Storting, precisely because the Progress Party has repeatedly said that they want it, while claiming that they are the seafarers' party. Therefore, when you received two reports — one ordered by the government, one by the Maritime Association and the LO — that both concluded that it is fully possible to implement a demand for Norwegian pay and working conditions. Yes, there may be some challenges, there may be some intrigues, but it's quite possible to do it. From this point of view, there should be a good basis for confirming such an important premise as compliance with Norwegian pay and work conditions – whether it is on board a boat, or whether it is on an industrial site or on a construction site. But the right hand parts don't want to do that. For what is the right hand side doing in the setting? Yes, they listen more to the problematization of the Shipowners' Federation than they listen to, for example. The Maritime Federation's very clear call to support the proposal presented today. So the Progress Party chooses to listen to the Shipowners' Association and join with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party and form a majority against a proposal that is concrete in terms of Norwegian pay and working conditions on board boats in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian bases. It's completely incomprehensible. And there is a significant difference between what the government parties now propose and the right parties propose, and the minority proposes: we want to ensure that the party-group receives a concrete mandate to draft proposals for Norwegian pay and working conditions on board boats in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian bases, while what the Progress Party and the government parties promote, which is the setting, has no instructions whatsoever regarding the construction of Norwegian wages and working conditions for seafarers. On the contrary, it is a fogging of the main question that the Progress Party has managed to get through the work they have done in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1175	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1180	Thank you for the reminder! It is an honor for me to take up the proposal that the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1187	Then the representative of Terje Aasland addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1192	I would like to start by saying that in this context, there would have been no inconvenience if this party-combined sample delivered faster than the specified one, and long before the end of the deadline, at the turn of the year, in order to remove the uncertainty about this as early as possible in the situation we are now in. The process of dealing with this matter has shown a varying degree of security among those involved in the debate and a high level of professional uncertainty about whether what has been outlined in this proposal for a representative is actually feasible. In such a situation, I find it difficult to see that it is appropriate to set up a party-based sample with a mandate to propose ways of implementing something that is potentially not feasible in the form that you have pointed out. In addition, a sample that receives this assignment becomes strange when parts of this party composite sample probably consider that this should not or can not be carried out. On top of that, the proposal completely lacks an impact study on what can happen to Norwegian ships in the waters of other countries if this is the principle. This principle violates what has so far been fundamental, that it is the legislation of the flag State that is in force on board. It is very difficult to imagine how to apply a regulatory framework which implies that every time you cross the border of the North Sea economic zone, new tariff provisions are to be introduced for a few minutes, days or hours. One might also wonder why this area is being identified, as it is mainly Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian tariffs. Thus, the reference to social dumping is also sought in this context. The consultation raised questions about ships flying flags of convenience from outside the EEA territory and regular short-haul transport between Norwegian ports. This is not allowed under current legislation and not a current issue with regard to this proposal. Norway spends a lot of resources in keeping ships under the Norwegian flag and ensuring that there are good framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers — and for Norwegian shipping companies, not least. The net pay scheme, specific guarantee schemes and a separate and more advantageous company scheme are some important measures to this end. This is what we do to ensure the competitive conditions of a Norwegian maritime industry that provides a high level of competence, innovation and value creation and that employs many people in the maritime cluster. I believe that we need to constantly assess how we can provide the cluster with good framework conditions, and in this light the proposal promoted by the government parties and the Progress Party is a good follow-up to continuous improvement efforts to provide a competitive maritime cluster.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1203	For the Central Party, this matter is about three questions. The first is: are Norwegian wage and work conditions to be applied to work done in Norway? The centre party answers a clear yes to that question. The next question is: Is Norwegian pedestal and Norwegian pedestal part of Norway? The centre party answers a clear yes to that question. The third question is: is there any room in the law for action to make demands on Norwegian pay and working conditions in Norway? It's not the Central Party that's going to respond to it, it's based on what's ordered from both the government and the seafarers' own organizations. And the answer is yes, there's a legal space to do this. These are three important issues, but politics is about creating multiples. Then the opposition needs the Progress Party on the team, and then question number. 4: Can we and Norwegian seafarers trust the Advance Party? Unfortunately, the answer is no. I could start with Carl I. Hagen's commitment to introduce the NIS Act. Now it's been so long since I'm going to jump over it. But let's take an example from the time when the Progress Party has its seat in government, a time when they've evolved to become a Mini-Right. Because it was a government with the Progress Party that pushed forward that change that put 700 Color Line in danger. It was only hard work from the opposition, and in particular the Christian People's Party, who were afraid of the jobs of these seafarers. It is the Progress Party with finance ministers and party leader Siv Jensen who has imposed on Norwegian seafarers targeted tax sharps. It is quite clear that the Progress Party has previously agreed to extend the use of NIS flags in Norwegian waters. It has been a long battle to get the Progress Party to outsource the action space to introduce Norwegian pay and working conditions. And when the action room is ready, the Progress Party looks back on its hind legs. History has shown that the Progress Party actively and passively counters Norwegian seafarers. The party of progress acts as a mixture of pirates and icebergs. So the answer is that one cannot trust the Progress Party. For the Center Party, the maritime industry is about having seafarers, but also about having solid Norwegian fleets. So we're busy finding that balance. We want a fleeting industry that has the most possible Norwegian stand – responsible fleets as contributions to the Norwegian community and to their communities. We believe that a demand for Norwegian wage and working conditions implemented in a good way will be a strength for both Norwegian seafarers, Norwegian reiarlag and Norwegian value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1222	The background to this proposal and the whole of this matter is well known – poor pay and working conditions on ships in Norwegian waters. It can hardly be called other than social dumping, that's how it is defined, and it's been a relationship that organisations have been involved in for years. The government parties will wait and evaluate and investigate again, even more. However, the impact in all areas has been highlighted and discussed in both these investigations to which reference has been made, both by the government and by the organisations. Is it that the opponents may have received answers they didn't want in these investigations, that's why they want more investigation? They say there is a lack of investigation. Is there just substantial arguments for the right-hand side of this case? It's quite natural to ask that, because the government's attitude can hardly be called anything but training. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, when he was Minister of Industry, has commented on this matter. He says, ‘Introducing a requirement for Norwegian wage and working conditions on foreign ships in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian seas will be a clear change in Norwegian shipping policy, which could potentially have a significant impact on industry.’ Yes, this is a major and important issue for the industry, but this argument has always come from the industries and from the right. That's it. If you haven't registered it, you have political gray tails. What is the fundamental difference between working to land and to water? I don't understand. Why should a floating workplace have much worse conditions than one with fixed ground under its feet? I find that hard to understand. The multiplicity proposal from, among others: The progress party doesn't say anything about them really wanting anything. In fact, they do not say anything about a concrete introduction of good pay and working conditions. While there is a comment from the public that the sample should assess the consequences of introducing Norwegian pay and working conditions, the proposal does not say a single word that the sample should look at how such a requirement can be put in place and the consequences of the possible instruments. On the other hand, when you look at the whole proposal of the Progress Party, it is quite clear, as I see it, that they strongly argue against such a requirement, and it is timely to ask questions as to whether the party has at all intended to move towards regulating the labour market in Norwegian waters at all. I have noticed now, several times, that the Progress Party has in some ways lost many groups in its constituencies, taxi drivers and long-distance drivers, and now there are actually also seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1241	More than 20,000 Norwegians work on ships every year. Norway has a long and proud ship tradition, and maritime nutrition is one of our most important industries. The fact that more than 20,000 Nordics have their work at sea is of great importance to the competitiveness of the industry and are involved in ensuring jobs and value creation throughout the country. There is still a high potential for creating new jobs related to marine industry and seafarers as important potential value creation. Norwegian seafarers have attractive skills and are sought-after skilled workers. Norwegian seafarers are also an important source of national preparedness in Norwegian waters and on the pedestal. The net pay system, which ensures Norwegian maritime competence and recruitment of Norwegian seafarers, is strengthened by this government by, inter alia, has been legalised. The subsidy scheme was also extended in 2017, so that the shipping companies received full subsidies for seafarers on board oil and chemical tankers, gas tankers and ro-ro ships in the NIS register. The change was made in such a way as not to impair the competitiveness of the Norwegian normal ship register, NOR, and unlike the opposition claims, there has been an increase in the registration of the NOR system, not a decrease. Because it is important to have sufficient and good maritime competence in Norway, the Left considers that we should consider strengthening the framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers in order to increase the number of Norwegian seafarers on board Norwegian ships. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that maritime nutrition is in strong international competition. Losing Norwegian ships' competitiveness, we also lose jobs. It is therefore important that a free mandate be given to a party sample to look at how Norwegian wage and working conditions can be strengthened without Norwegian ships losing their competitiveness. The proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre does not take into account the fact that a blind introduction of Norwegian pay and working conditions could eliminate a lot of jobs. Proper working conditions and freedom from social dumping are a matter of course. People must have good jobs that make it possible to live well in the country in which they live. It is also important that a company achieves positive results. It's as important at sea as it is at land. A clean and good working life is one of Norway’s proud traditions, where tripartite cooperation is vital. Now in the coronary crisis, we have seen the importance of tripartite cooperation and also how cooperation, not conflict, helps us get the best results. Left's Palaal Berg was at the head of the development of the building blocks in what was to be tripartite cooperation. We are working for a society where conflict and disagreement are managed through dialogue and cooperation. There's usually a place in the middle of the best solutions available. It is therefore gratifying that the Stortinget today decides to set up a Joint Committee to assess the measures to strengthen Norwegian maritime competence, to ensure Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships and to ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian shipping companies. Just the maritime industry is also part of the spearhead in the development of new green technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1262	The maritime industry has a central position among Norwegian marine industries and Norwegian industry and contributes to value creation and jobs across the country. Norwegian maritime enterprises and workers manage technologies and competences that constitute an international competitive advantage within a number of segments. It is important to take care of in the future. It is essential for the government to facilitate the maintenance by the maritime industry of its international competitiveness and ability to create value and employment throughout the country. This is also the background for the government now working with a big message about maritime policy. Like the proposers and the other members of the committee, I have faith in the Norwegian model and that tripartite cooperation can help to find good solutions for Norwegian business. Speed range selection is an example of precisely that, where the sample recommendations were followed up by the government, with positive effects on industry. At the same time, I support the majority’s assessment not to pre-determine the outcome of the sample’s work, but rather let the sample itself assess various measures that can strengthen Norwegian maritime competence, ensure Norwegian seafarers and ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian shipping companies. Although the possibility of introducing a requirement for Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian seas has been the subject of thorough investigations, many evaluations and difficult balances remain, not least if the introduction of such a requirement would contribute to a positive development for Norwegian maritime industry as a whole. I notice that a Joint Nutrition Committee wants a joint maritime sample to be set up. I intend to establish such a sample as soon as the situation permits. I also consider, as was also said by the rapporteur, that Stortinget will not protest if they have the opportunity to deliver before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1277	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1282	It was clarifying, what the Minister of Industry said. She will not oblige the sample to work on a requirement to promote action in the case of Norwegian pay and working conditions. But can the Minister of Industry justify why no requirement should now be made for a selection of the parties to propose measures, legislative changes and arrangements to put in place Norwegian conditions of pay and work for shipping in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian seas?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1287	The debate on a selection of parties has not occurred as a result of what the government has presented. We work with our maritime communications and have worked with it in the usual way. This debate is something that the Storting itself has raised in the committee, and I note that it is a disagreement. I believe that the parties here – as in many other cases – have a great deal to do, but I also believe that we must give them the freedom within the mandate to make those proposals and actions on their own initiative, rather than that we should define them in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1292	One may question what a selection without a mandate from the Storting should really do. The starting point of the proposal is to put in place a system for Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on a Norwegian base. It is a very important principle within the Norwegian model. Then my question is again: Does the Minister for Economic Affairs think that a selection of parties which is not required to make concrete proposals will make concrete proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1299	I think it is a good question from the representative, because I have met with the parties and discussed this matter, and I see that they are very different. What they agree on is hard to say in advance, but my experience is that when people sit down in a room and discuss, good things can come out of it. So I mean absolutely that the parties have something to contribute here, and I mean absolutely that such a sample would also be able to make important votes even if they did not agree with the sample. I believe that this is well explained in these two reports – both the one the government ordered, and the one ordered by others and delivered by Menon and the University of Oslo. In any case, I believe that we have received good legal judgements. Political balances and political decisions need to be taken, and I believe that such a party-based selection can help.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1304	Yes, and that's when we get very disagreed, because then I think that a party selection should propose concrete solutions for how they can imagine it, so that they had a specific mandate, so that they had to show a way, even if it's demanding, and even if there might be disagreements in such a party selection, because it could be. Then a political decision could be made after what you wanted. This is not the government's selection, as I understand it. That's something they put together quickly and quickly, without very clear leads. However, if one actually wants to achieve Norwegian pay and working conditions, the order should now have been specific to the party sample, so that one could quickly get a proposal that a political assessor could consider whether or not to implement. But that's exactly what the majority is now preventing the minority from being reduced. I'm sorry about that. I had hoped that the Minister of Industry could contribute to the fact that this kind of debate had been somewhat more elucidating even in retrospect, and that one not once again came into a very unclear and unexplained situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1311	I understand that the minority would like to have a majority for its proposal. That is the debate that the Committee has had, and where a majority has taken a somewhat different form than the representative of Aasland and the minority would have wanted. But with regard to the debate itself, the representative and the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss this later, because we are now working on a big message on this. A sample of the parties shall be set up to deal with the issue. So I don't think the representative needs to be afraid that he won't have to say his opinion and vote on the matter itself, because it will come – not at this time, but at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1316	The proposal to have a majority today states that one should consider measures that can strengthen Norwegian maritime competence, secure Norwegian seafarers, etc. One of the measures in question is Norwegian pay and working conditions, and if you want to assess the consequences of this, you need to see how you can implement it – in order to understand the consequences. My question is: does the Council of State think that the decision that the majority is about to take today is a natural follow-up to it, and that one will also make promises and arrangements to implement Norwegian wage and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1324	This question, about Norwegian pay and working conditions, is something that the government has not dealt with, precisely because we are working on a growth report where it would be natural to raise it in that context. Now, a party-based sample is being set up that will also be able to contribute to it. After all, we have legal assessments, two legal reports, which show a room for action. What becomes the big and difficult political balance is the totality — not the question of whether it is possible as such, but whether it is beneficial, overall. That's the job we're going to do now. So this party-group sample that the Storting now asks us to put down, which I will, of course, do as quickly as possible, will be able to give important considerations and important input – an important part of such a balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1329	I think it might be a good idea to clarify the government's principle view of this. Then I have two questions: Does the government think that there should be Norwegian pay and working conditions for work carried out in Norway? And my government that Norwegian pedestal and Norwegian pedestal are part of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1334	I believe that there are questions that we have to decide on in connection with the big message that we have not yet taken a decision on. It is not that Norwegian pay and working conditions are not also offered on ships today, but there are different legislations that apply to NOR registered and NIS registered, and how they operate in our waters, which provide different regulations and regulations. It is clear that we need to make that assessment. We haven't made that assessment yet. Therefore, the government has not yet taken a decision on this, but we are going to do so in connection with the cancellation message that we are currently working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1339	We have two investigations on the table, and one has assessed both legal aspects and economic and business aspects of this case. Then the big question is, what does the Council of State think can be done now, with another investigation? That's the big question. What does the totality mean, what is the Council of State talking about? When, for example: in the case of social dumping: is it that, in such a totality, the government will assess whether social dumping is a price to pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1346	This report shows a legal space for action. At the same time, the evaluations that we have to make around the whole are still going to be. That is also the case with the report. Among other things, it indicates that the consequences of requiring Norwegian pay and working conditions are uncertain, among other things. because it is uncertain how companies and, where appropriate, others will adapt to such a requirement. The investigation also points to the fact that the greatest potential negative impact on Norwegian employment and value creation will be increased costs, making it unprofitable to extract marginal petroleum findings on Norwegian base. So maybe there's someone who thinks it's hitting two flies in a taste, but this is the assessment that the government has to make. But I remember, as I said in my previous answer, that on NOR ships it is not allowed to use international pay and working conditions – here we have to give Norwegian pay and working conditions. On NIS ships registered in NIS and in open foreign registers there is other legislation, so it is not a unique image today either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1351	So the chord change is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1358	First of all, I just want to say that it is incredibly rude of the representative Pollestad to accuse the Advance Party of possibly wanting to fly out the Color Line. I think that was a little bit of a messy thing, but it is now. The representative of Aasland’s argument in the case bears the hallmark of something he was very concerned about in an earlier case today, the statement of ownership – namely principles. The difference now is that when one is concerned with principles, a more or less bluffs into possible consequences. As has been seen in the various reports, there are no maritime barriers to the introduction of Norwegian wage and working conditions on Norwegian pedestal and Norwegian waters, and the Progress Party is in favour of having them. But it might cost more than it tastes, if an introduction to this makes you have to look at other supplements. The representative of Skkelstad stated that we are in an international competitive situation, and if we lose competitiveness, we also lose seafarers. We can end up in that situation – and I say we can – with ships going in Norwegian waters and with Norwegian pay and working conditions, that we can risk getting a profitability that gets so bad that the ships will not go in, and a loser then contracts and offers in Norwegian waters, or it becomes so unprofitable that one does not find the opportunity to do so at all. Such a situation would not benefit the shipping industry, and it would not benefit Norwegian seafarers at least. It's not like someone thinks that the ship's industry is a solid, inexhaustible gold mine. I think it is important to review such consequences in the party sample, and that sample will review how a Norwegian salary and working conditions might be introduced on a Norwegian base. It's part of the discussion they're going to have, which the Minister of Industry was also going to have. I get a little hint when I hear how the Aasland representative argues in terms of social dumping. We have a lot of ships today sailing on a Norwegian base under other flags, which have Filipinos on board, which have pay and working conditions at a very high Philippine level, but which of course are not on a Norwegian level. Then we also have to take with us that there are Norwegian organisations, LO, who are involved in negotiating and approving these agreements. So if this is social dumping, then the Labour Party's primary supplier, LO, is involved in social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1372	How good it is to live in a country, and the quality of a society, can, among other things, be. is measured on the wages and salaries of the lowest wages and salaries. That's why this debate is very, in principle, important for what it's actually going to be like to live in Norway and live our lives here. Here we are talking about work that is done all the way down to NOK 35 per hour. Of course, it also affects the social structures of our country. This is knowledge within, for example: the practical operation of maritime activities at sea. That is why this is also an important matter for a guy from the Inland. Although I haven't worked at sea myself, this is important for how our country should work at large. Introducing the proposal that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are promoting today would be a major step forward for our country. It is quite the opposite of that representative Ørsal Johansen is trying to present it as. Of course, for the LO, if the Stortinget decided clearly that Norway is the Norwegian pay and working conditions, a great deal of help will be provided in its negotiating position. That's the cooperation we're very proud of, because we know that the job we're doing here at the Bighold, along with the skilled trustee, is what makes families and workers get good lives. The Korona situation shows us how vulnerable we as a society are, when the wages within several important parts of our society are below what can be lived off in Norway. Even a question like whether we have enough food is influenced by that kind of relationship. That's why this is one of today's very important things that we have in Stortinget. It is sad that the Progress Party is against it, but it is drawing up an important road map towards the decision-making process in 2021, if we are going to start up a major cleaning in the Norwegian labour market in the field by field. Then the working conditions on the base and on the sea will be one of the areas that we include in our major cleaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1385	It's often hard to listen to the realities, because they can hurt, and when one reminds the Progress Party that they put in the government that opened up so that Color Line could replace 700 Norwegians – that was a government the Progress Party was in – I understand that it hurts to listen to. The reason I took the floor was that I understood that the representative Ørsal Johansen said in his contribution that one of these work should receive an assessment of how to introduce Norwegian pay and working conditions – that it is within the mandate given. I believe the Minister of Industry is going in a different direction, so I think that the majority of the government parties and the Progress Party before the debate is over should clarify to what extent we can expect that, as part of this work, it will be carried out an explanation of how to introduce Norwegian wage and working conditions into Norwegian waters and on Norwegian bases. It would have been very helpful for the debate on whether we got that clarification, for my opinion of the debate so far is that the Minister of Industry answered no to that question, while the representative Ørsal Johansen answered yes. The fact that the Progress Party misinterprets agreements they enter into with the government party, I believe that as another opposition, I have to assume a responsibility to prevent the future from happening, because up to this, there are some innocent third parties that this ambiguity frames.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1394	It is not intended to train or postpone this debate unnecessarily, sail if the matter seems to be being trained – to put it that way. What I think is hard for many to understand is that there should be some sort of logic in the distinction between land and water in terms of working conditions. I don't think most people understand that, when they get into relationships, how the situation is. To mention this: we have constructions, we have cabotage in Norway – areas that you might say are so competitive that we have to be careful with Norwegian, good pay and employment. But then we have managed to get it done – if it is then checked properly, that is another thing. But we have it there, we've got it on the ground in a way. And then you can wonder what it is that separates jobs to land and to water. I will then understand the seamen who have such an attitude that they regard the government's attitudes as a training. I can't believe anything else. I wanted to sum up in a proper way the attitude of the Progress Party here, because I was given little time to do so in the previous article. I have noticed that the Advance Party is now losing its foothold in many camps in several cases. In my field, in the Transport Committee, we have seen it in two clear areas: They went in full-mouth for the release on the taxis. There was earlier a bastion in the Progress Party, they had chosen among the taxi owners and taxi drivers. It's now just a saga, I'd say. That's how much I've been around. They had earlier footholds among trailer drivers, I think, at least they wanted to stand out as if there was some sort of foothold for them. Now, too, much has been lost, due to the liberalisation of foreign vehicle trains in Norway and poor control – with the State Council of the Progress Party in two rounds. And so this comes with social dumping among seafarers. It is the third area where the Party of Advances has wanted them to have a foothold and they refer to them as a kind of electoral group. Then I have to say it's quite sad, and I'll look a little bit further in the crystal ball and see what other groups they'll eventually lose. But they no longer have any credibility in terms of social dumping and control in that area, in terms of bringing Norwegian pay and working conditions into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1411	To the representative Ørsal Johansen I can say that I did not mention social dumping in my post. I should have done that, because when competition is won by undermining pay and working conditions on board a boat, in my opinion, it is social dumping. There's a lot going on, no matter which agreements are approved. Then it is made a point that if we make demands for Norwegian pay and working conditions on a Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters, it will mean that no assignment can be made on a Norwegian base with Norwegian boats or with a Norwegian flag. With respect to reporting: there is a short cut in the reasoning, because there will be a level playing field for all – when you are going to do a job, when you are going to work on a Norwegian base or in Norwegian waters, you have to offer Norwegian pay and working conditions. It must be a strength for competitiveness, it must be a strength for the Norwegian model, and there must be some of what we want: fair conditions for ordinary people. If you are sailing on a foreign registered vessel or a Norwegian registered vessel, the Norwegian salary and working conditions applicable to work in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian bases are exactly the same as they are to do on land. So I don't understand those reasonings. When you heard the Minister of Industry, both in his introduction and in the change of line, there should have been a serious call from the Progress Party, which has been occupied by – as I understand it – Norwegian pay and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian pedestals. The Minister of Industry argued strongly that this is not the government's sample, and they will not instruct the sample to make any proposals for action on Norwegian pay and working conditions. So it's highly uncertain what comes out of this party-group that the government is now going to put down, and that is going to be without a binding or concrete mandate in the case of Norwegian pay and working conditions. Get it, whoever can. The fact that the Progress Party does not dare to be itself – or is not itself or how they act now – is difficult to understand, because one shows his Janus face when one in the media says something and here in the hall does something completely different. Then there is an unreasonable one – one has led many behind the light. When the government submits the maritime message and this party-combined selection is finished, I am convinced that Norwegian seafarers are going to feel stabbed in the back because of the lack of action in the Stortinget to be subject to very much-needed conditions for seafarers who do a decent job in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian plaza. This is a sad day in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1423	It is not that the Progress Party says no to Norwegian pay and working conditions. As the representative Pollestad was involved, there is a legal room for action to introduce Norwegian wage and working conditions on a Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters. But the Progress Party, like the three other parties that form the majority, wants to get a proper review and assessment of its consequences. We want several Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. Then we have to be sure that this is what will result if we introduce Norwegian pay and working conditions. The representative of Aasland said in his speech that the introduction of Norwegian pay and working conditions may have some challenges and some intrigues. If the challenges and encroachments mentioned by the representative of Aasland lead to Norwegian seafarers being thrown on land, the Progress Party is not involved. In this way, the Progress Party – unlike the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV – will have a more thorough decision-making basis to ensure that we avoid Norwegian seafarers being thrown on land. Norwegian maritime competence is important on the base and in the maritime clusters. The Advance Party is concerned that we will also have Norwegian seafarers in our own waters as well as in international voyages in the future. When representatives Aasland and Pollestad claim that the Advance Party is failing the seafarers, it is directly wrong. On our watch in government, we have done a great deal to improve the framework conditions and predictability of seafarers, and so do we in the future. In contrast to the time when the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV ruled, the subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers has been strengthened. In addition, the government has statutoryized the grant scheme and extended it to specialised ‘deep sea’ activities, leading to an increased proportion of Norwegian seafarers. Today we have over 90 pst. Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian pedestal. In addition, we have strengthened maritime education, and we have strengthened Export Credit Norway and GIEK. Some adjustments have been made in the export finance offer and it has become easier for Norwegian shipyards to obtain building loans. And we have prevented the flagging out of Color Line. Our proposals will not postpone the introduction of measures that will strengthen conditions for Norwegian seafarers. If the sample concludes that Norwegian pay and working conditions are the solution, without any challenges and encroachments, we in the Progress Party will contribute to its implementation in the handling of the maritime communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1438	First of all, I just have to stress one thing: it was far from – far from – the representative Pollestad and the Central Party that turned the government around in the Color Line case. With regard to the matter we are discussing, the representative Strifeldt was involved in much of what I wanted to go through, and he made it very clear what the position of the Progress Party is in this matter. We want Norwegian pay and work conditions, but there will also be consequences. We will consider measures to ensure that Norwegian maritime industry is not weakened as a result of this. We are going to have Norwegian wage and working conditions, but not if, as the representative Strifeldt put it, we go beyond Norwegian seafarers and we get fewer Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian boats and on Norwegian pedestals. We do not fail Norwegian seafarers even if we do not vote in favour of the proposals of the Labour Party and of the Centre Party. We have put forward a proposal that will lead us to take care of the entire Norwegian maritime industry, both seafarers and boat owners, and it is essentially important for us to have a maritime industry at all in Norway. Then we're in on the charges of social dumping that are coming. It is clear that social dumping is certainly taking place in this area, as it is on land, but when we read in the statement that between Norwegian ports there are fast-going ships where the seafarers earn $35 an hour, I will probably know which ships it is, because it is strictly illegal today, and it is a law that is to take care of this. We would like to have evidence of this, because many people would be interested in getting a clarification on this. In any case, this case concerning Norwegian pay and working conditions has not been completed. It's not the maritime message, either, that you should be able to believe by what someone hears from this pulpit. The maritime message will be submitted until the autumn. There this comes up. A sample shall be reduced and it will make its assessments and present its conclusions. From this we're going to come to our conclusion in this room. I hope we get so far that we get Norwegian pay and working conditions on a Norwegian base, but as I said, not if it happens at the expense of Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1451	I record that the representative from the Workers' Party describes it as unfair to want to know the consequences of those decisions. I think that maybe we're going to remind ourselves of future debates. I take the floor now because there have been questions about what should be investigated. From the right-hand point of view, at least we base our comments on the proposal for a decision. The note – and there we have a common understanding with the Progress Party, as described by the Progress Party during the debate – states that the consequences of introducing Norwegian wage and working conditions on Norwegian pedestals are part of what the sample should assess. In this way, I think that when you read the comment that ends with ‘the majority are therefore promoting the following proposals’, it is also natural to base it on the scope of that sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1458	Terje Aasland has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1463	It is Stortinget that must take responsibility for the situation on the Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters. There's no one else that can do, and we now have the opportunity to be very clear in which direction we want this to take. The best thing, when tasks can be demanding and challenging, is to ask the parties to find the solutions. Right? That's a good solution. I am absolutely convinced that they will find good answers to demanding questions and will be able to make concrete proposals for both guidelines, instructions and laws, just to follow up what is the intention of the Stortinget. But then also the population has to say it. That is the problem of what the Progress Party and the government parties now agree on, because it does not indicate anything about Norwegian pay and working conditions. I can then challenge the Progress Party to vote in favour of the minority's proposals, both the vote and the minority's proposals. There is then a guaranteed investigation of both the consequences and the relationship with Norwegian pay and working conditions. That's what you should have done if you had some propriety left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1470	The representative, Morten Ørsal Johansen, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1475	I don't know who's going to talk about propriety here, but I'm going to let that lie. If the representative of Aasland had had what he calls 'delicacy', he might have gone for the proposal of the majority, which takes care of all aspects of the case, and which ensures that we get an investigation that looks at the consequences of all aspects of the case. And as the representative of the Right expressed it here: it is within the mandate that they should include Norwegian pay and working conditions in their assessment, but that the consequences of this should also be assessed – as the representative of Aasland in a previous post admitted. Is it not then possible to get everything on the track and get it provided when we handle the maritime message? Then we get a debate on the maritime notification, and then we get a decision that is worthy of the Norwegian seafarers. I also think that the Labour Party can be involved in this – to make an overall assessment of this. That's propriety.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1482	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1499	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1506	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the review of the report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. I will briefly address some of the most important points that are raised in the Committee's position. As regards ship and crew safety, the Committee expresses support for a new risk-based methodology for the supervision of ships introduced by the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs from the summer of 2017. However, the Committee stresses the importance of ensuring that such conversion does not impair the procedures of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs as regards the follow-up to the provisions on safety manning contained in the Norwegian Ship Manning Regulation. The Committee expects a good and continuous dialogue between the Ministry and the Maritime Directorate in order to ensure good interaction procedures in the definition of safety crews and underlines the importance of working well with tripartite cooperation to ensure that this is done. Furthermore, the Committee notes that in recent years there has been a significant increase in the rescue and preparedness capacity of Svalbard. The Committee considers that there is a desired development that should continue. The Committee also supports the government's proposal to establish an Arctic Maritime Skills Node under the leadership of the Maritime Forum to meet the need for good and up-to-date maritime competence for crews on board ships operating on Arctic waters. In order to deliver that competence, both universities, colleges and secondary schools will become important participants. An important part of the Storing Notice is the mention of the safety of recreational craft. In particular, there are two themes which have led the various batches of the Committee to take different positions, firstly, to the introduction of a lower per-mile limit for drivers of recreational craft and, secondly, to the introduction of a separate certificate for drivers of high-speed craft. With regard to the first, the government parties show that in most of the drug-related fatal accidents in the reference year 2018, the number of deaths was significantly higher than the current level of 0.8. Government Parties further point out that the State Committee on Disasters for Transport recommends more knowledge on the relationship between the impact of drug use and the management of recreational boats. The conclusion is that the government will not reduce the per million limit now, but that one will ask the Directorate for Maritime Affairs to produce a better factual and statistical basis for accidents involving recreational boats. There is an overall committee asking that the relationship between drug use and accidents, in particular with high-speed craft, be prioritised. With regard to the issue of the introduction of a separate certificate for high-speed recreational craft drivers, the government has also chosen to await a final conclusion. The Government will consider whether to introduce a separate theoretical and practical course for drivers of recreational craft with a top speed of more than 50 knots, and we will record that an overall committee meets with rapid clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1521	I would also like to thank the Committee, and in particular the rapporteur, for their good cooperation in this matter. Norway is a proud and important maritime nation, and therefore maritime safety and coastal preparedness are important. On the part of the Labour Party, we might have wanted a little more concrete action in the communication. Among other things, we are calling for the continuation of the competence centre for oil protection and marine pollution to be built up in the Lofoten and the West Sea. We're missing the part that's going to start in the Vesterål, on Fiskebøl. Furthermore, since 2015 the government has announced a technical school for fire and preparedness. We know that the preparedness in the municipalities was largely carried out by fire and rescue personnel there, and that technical school would have been nice to put in place. For the Workers' Party, maritime safety and preparedness in the northern regions are important. In an earlier case today, we have also been in the projects SARINOR 1 and 2 and the exercises within these projects called SAREX, where today's preparedness for both acute contamination and rescue operations has been surveyed. It turns out that in the northern regions, the basic infrastructure is not considered to be capable of operating within the same risk framework as in the mainland. The Workers' Party believes that the rescue we saw in March, when the cruise ship «Viking Sky» came in distress at Hustadvika, would have a disastrously different outcome in the northern regions. Therefore, it is important that the setting highlights the importance of an Arctic maritime cluster of competences. It is good that it seems that it can be put in place, under the direction of the Maritime Forum North, for the exercises in the north has shown that the human factor, namely competence, is important. In most areas of society, the number of accidents and deaths is falling. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the case of accidents related to the use of recreational craft. Recreational boat safety was specifically requested by Stortinget in this notification. 21 deaths in recreational boat accidents in 2018, 28 deaths in 2019. In the case of the accidents in 2018, we know that in 8 out of 21 people were involved. Rus was unknown in the same number of cases. So it's not measured. Today, an adult man of 80 pounds [85 kg] can drink three pints [3 pints], and that's legal. What happens very often when you've been drinking three pints is that you think the fourth one might not be that dangerous. As the Advocate General pointed out, those who perish at sea often have more than 0.8 per million. The working party believes it is time to lower the per million limit to 0.2. With that, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1536	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1541	I would essentially like to join in what the rapporteur has said in his statement. I am very pleased that we have received such a review of maritime safety. For an islander like me, who from the window can observe both sensible and unwetty boating – both boating and recreational boating – I would say that most actually behave well at sea. Nevertheless, there are major challenges, especially for a country with large seas and few people. As large marine areas as we manage will, of course, mean that the challenges will be great in controlling them and securing them. There is a great deal of consensus about the approaches to this work, but at the same time, the challenges are also big and will be great no matter what the dimension we give of the rescue system. On the leisure boat side, with larger engines and more speed, the challenges also come for the boat drivers. Recreational boats today can have a peak speed far above the MTBs of the Hauk class we saw along our fjords for a few years ago. Some, though few, can compete with today's Skjold-class 60 knots. Nevertheless, other types of accidents dominate the statistics on drowning accidents: falls in water from vessels, often by land, and from docks represent a relatively large proportion of the statistics. Here it is worth noting that the proposals that have been put forward in the debate are essentially measures aimed at the boatmaster and the traffic by boat. It is believed that the proposed measures aimed at the movement of the boat will have a particular impact on the type of accident that really dominates the statistics. Of 86 drowning accidents in 2019, 23 were related to the use of motorised recreational boat, and 33 were related to falls in land water, according to the Rescue Company’s statistics. This is a pattern over several years. It describes that the challenge is broader than what we might traditionally approach, and it underlines the importance of attitude, swimming training and the use of floats and life jackets. The life jacket should be as natural in the boat as a safety belt in the car. I am pleased that, in parallel with the work on this communication, there is also a revised regulation for the use of a boat for educational purposes, e.g. for seamen, schools and kindergartens, so that a reasonable balance has been drawn between safety and activity, which makes it possible to use boats and marine life in training. This is important, because we are an island people – at least I, for my part – and a coastal people. Those who do not live along the coast usually have a river or a lake nearby. Learning about the joys and dangers of the sea and learning to know it is an important basis for being safe and able to assess when the sea is a friend and when it is an enemy — when it is safe and when it can safely stay on land.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1552	I want to start by thanking the rapporteur for a very thorough and very good job with this important communication on safety at sea. It is important that the government now submit such a message. It is also particularly important that we engage the State's accident commission to go thoroughly through all accidents at sea in 2018. I am on the Transport Committee, and there we have a strong focus on road safety on the road network. But I have to say, unfortunately, when it comes to safety at sea, there has not been a corresponding strong focus. In 2018, more than 100 people drowned. That is, now, unfortunately, it dies about as many at sea as it does on the road network. Consequently, it is important that we also have an increased focus on safety at sea. However, in order to put in place targeted measures, measures that will really have a positive effect on reducing the number of accidents and reducing drowning accidents, we need to have detailed knowledge of the accidents. Symbol policies are not useful, which will not produce demonstrable results. We see that a large majority of those who drown, drown when they bathe, or after falls from land and docks. The main instrument for dealing with this type of accident is a combination of both awareness-raising and better swimming training. The main responsibility for better swim training lies with the Ministry of Knowledge, and in this context municipalities and schools must also help to take greater responsibility. Sports activities and associations may also contribute to improving swimming skills. The second large group on drowning is those who drown from land and dock — and not from boats on the go. Luckily, it is significantly fewer who are now drowning from recreational boats. Fortunately, in the summer of 2018, which was record warm and record long, there was a significant decrease in the number of persons killed by recreational boats. About half of them drowned from the boat, drowned because the boat edged or they fell overboard. The accidents occurred mainly from small boats at low speed, and the fatalities probably did not have a promille. About half of the deaths in this category were foreign tourists. We may not be able to teach all the tourists to swim, but it is clear that we have a job to do in terms of mind-building work towards this group. It also appears in the Report. St. 30 for 2018–2019 that four of the more than a hundred drowned in 2018, drowned from the boat at high speed, and they had high per thousand. I have not been able to find out how many of these four used life jackets, or whether they were the boat or the passenger. Today's per mill limit is 0.8. Our challenge is that it is not being observed and not being followed. In this context, the Right Initiative took the initiative of having a very good boat policy seminar for a while. There, we actually concluded that three important measures are more visible police, better education for swimming and more focus on awareness-raising work. At that seminar, the Police Directorate, the Rescue Company, Royal Copenhagen Norwegian Boat Federation – a lot of good actors – were hoping that we could see more visible police at sea in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1571	I want to link comments to three relationships. First of all – and that is a pleasure – it is mainly a connection to the main conclusions of the message. Most of the message is good and must be followed up. The second ratio is the security of the northern regions. In a situation where, for example: A cruise ship in the Barents Sea gets in trouble and is about to search, do we have resources to rock people? Is it necessary to have resources to rock people in such a situation, and is it not at least clear to passengers that it is not just going on the upper deck and waiting to be mountained? I believe the answer is strong preparedness while a clear reality orientation towards both passengers and fleets will be important. The last point is that of recreational boats. I mean this setting shows the strength of the Center Party and how far forward we are. The Government Party and the Advance Party let it scour and go and have few new proposals. On the other hand, we have the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, which will introduce measures that limit people's freedom, but without being able to demonstrate that they have any effect. Some sort of arsonism lies above this proposal. The center part points to the fastest boats having the biggest challenges. It is in these cases that one should look at the per mille limit and strengthen training, so we have proposals that point to lower per mille limit and better and stricter training requirements when using the fastest boats. A per millionile limit of 0.2 will be without logic. That there should be the same per mill limit for a boat that thousands of yards of guard in a few knots, as there are for two cars that meet at a speed of 180 km/h with one metre of clearance, is incomprehensible. If the measures are to be legitimised, they must be reasonable. It's worth reminding us that we had a discussion about float-west. Deceptive Minister of Industry, Monica Mæland, promised that there would be an evaluation and a rematch here. We also think that one of the most intense opponents to the flow-west supply in the Stortinget was Tor André Johnsen, who did not then get through. There are some people in this country who have raised their lives because he didn't, and are happy about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1584	Should the representative Pollestad make the excellent proposal, or?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1589	As well as that proposal was, President, I believe I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1594	Yeah, that's what the president could think of. Then that is the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1600	I'm not going to say so much about proms and leisure boats, although it may be important enough, but I want to say a little bit about the really big question, the really big perspectives about the emergency situation in the northern regions. These are things that have been in the hall for several rounds. In winter, SV also had a proposal to set down a wide-ranging selection to look at the emergency situation for one field, namely cruise traffic in the northern regions. It's one of the fields that's very, very important if the growth continues as it did before the coronary situation, at least. People have easily forgotten, but we have to think about what happened last March with "Viking Sky". I would like to say that we were so far – for the purpose of the reference: it is approx. 1.5 cm I have between my fingertips – from a disaster of Titanic dimensions. Remember, too, that this was close to the mainland of Norway. Helicopters went into shuttle traffic, and you know about the number of those who managed to land. During the storm around Svalbard – I don't want to think about that. I think I can free myself from the whole script, because I've been to Svalbard many times. I have to say that a cruise boat with 4,000 – 5,000 aboard a storm around Svalbard, or I can say North Norway, will be so bad that we almost dare not think about it. I've been sitting so many times at steep mountains and cuttings on Svalbard, also in North Norway, and thinking about what would happen. With the increased traffic around our island group on Svalbard, with traffic north-eastward, the north-east passage that opens, and perhaps increased oil activity after the corona situation, we will have to think about this more and more. It goes, and it goes okay, of course, as long as nothing happens, and we tend to push out and push out, but we have to think through it. We also had a different situation in Christmas 2018, at Hinlaufen. There is also a place on Svalbard, between Spitsbergen and Nordaustlanden. There was a trawler that went down. They barely managed to save 14 fishermen. The two Super Pumas went well in shuttle traffic. They did it, thank God. But that gives some cross-thinking for what had happened to a few thousand passengers there. This we have to have with us all the way. It must also be thought carefully through restrictions on traffic. I think it's pretty crucial to think. I just want to mention it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1609	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, who has done a thorough job on the matter. There is no doubt that we have a long-distance coast, with archipelago and fjords, where several thousand Northmen work every day. Others enjoy leisure and delicacies in the archipelago, while others reap from the sea in the form of fish to provide food for the thousands of homes. Norway's history, culture and geography have led us to be part of the world's leading ports. The sea affords many opportunities, great freedom and much joy. At the same time, we have great variations in weather and wind. So human error can be fatal at the wrong time, as several have mentioned, at the latest the event of the “Viking Sky” cruise ship on Hustadvika, which could have fatal consequences. Of course, we also remember the loss of ‘Sleipner’ in 1999. The rescue action at Hustadvika demonstrated the effectiveness of cooperative models for rescue services. The total effort of professional rescue teams and non-governmental organisations established on-shore receptions to evacuate passengers from the ship, attracted international attention and recognition. We have every reason to be proud of that work. Safety at sea depends on good interaction between organisations, businesses, individuals and the public, which was a good example of the "Viking Sky" rescue operation, and I have great respect for the staff working daily in parts of the Norwegian rescue service. We have no life to lose, and that's why we also need to make the digitization bit work. Attitude and control are important in terms of the recreational boat fleet, and the accident commission has pointed out that high speed is why we have some accidents. In many places, boat life in summer, and we read every year about fatal accidents that have clearly come at high speed as part of the risk factors. Good cooperation, proper working conditions and a strong focus on training and HMS are essential for good maritime safety. That is why I am pleased that, in addition to safety and working environment requirements, the government in legislation emphasises good working and living conditions for seafarers as important for maritime safety. Because it's not just human life that's in danger when things go wrong at sea. Animal life can also be severely affected if the disaster occurs when we have oil spills or other discharges. It is therefore important and good that we establish a centre for oil protection and maritime environment in Svolvær and on Fiskebøl. The zero vision for transport accidents is of course an ambitious objective and important for people and nature. Therefore, it is positive that the government will give priority to prevention measures in areas at high risk and which are very busy, for example Oslo and along the west coast. The left will always give priority to green solutions along the coast in our cooperation with maritime clusters and shipping companies, as well as public efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1630	The government is committed to working to ensure that everyone can travel safely on the sea, both a commercial vessel and a recreational boat. There's something we're all concerned about here today. I notice that the Committee has agreed that a high level of maritime safety depends on good interaction. It is gratifying that it has become safer to work on Norwegian ships from 1990 to today, and the previously mentioned accident of «Viking Sky» reminds us of the importance of safety at sea. The government has, among other things: in this context, decided to set up a sample to address maritime safety and preparedness challenges related to cruise traffic. The government is also concerned with the proper functioning of tripartite cooperation related to the determination of safety crews on Norwegian ships. I'm following up the directorate's work to ensure good practice in determining the safety crew. In order to contribute to the sustainable development of the north and prevent accidents, shipping needs to operate with high safety and environmental standards. The government will continue its active driving role associated with, among other things. legislative development, both national and international. So a little bit about recreational boats, which have been up in the debate here now: Boat life is a dear activity for many Northmen, not least in these days and forwards, and the government will facilitate a boating life where everyone can participate and travel safely. The Maritime Directorate has presented an action plan for recreational boating accidents. The plan has been drawn up in cooperation with the Expert Council for Recreational Crafts, including: The rescue company shall participate. The notification contains a number of measures to increase the safety of the use of recreational craft, including the assessment of the introduction of a speedboat certificate, and I have noticed that the Committee wants a quick clarification on that issue. Boat users themselves have to take responsibility and adopt good positions at sea and not operate a recreational boat in a drug-affected condition. The Maritime Directorate is working to obtain a better factual and statistical basis on accident causes, and I also notice that the Committee believes that a comparison of accident rates over time for high-speed vessels in Norway and Sweden, where drug use is a contributing cause, should be included in the work. It was also the case rapporteur in his first post. The Government will facilitate safety at sea, both for commercial and recreational craft, and there is no doubt that safety, safety and maritime interaction must always be of great attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1643	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1648	The Labour Party has put forward two proposals in this case, which we believe are concrete in order to reduce the number of pleasure boat accidents. One concerns the per mille limit. We think the person who runs the boat – not necessarily the passengers, but the person who runs the boat – should not have more prom than what you have on the road, and we want a high-speed certificate. I notice that it's called archipelago morality, but we've looked at numbers. We know that 8 of the 21 drivers who died in 2018 were affected by promille. We also know that in 9 of the 21 accidents, no pro-mille test was taken. In addition, we also saw that just before the hearing on this matter, the current district minister, Greece, was from the Right out in the media and wanted a high-speed certificate. So I wonder a little bit: why is it not suggested in this case, both when it comes to taking what we see is perhaps the main reason -- pro-mille -- and when it comes to high-speed certification?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1655	The message states that we should consider introducing such a fast certificate for a boat. In this way, this communication points forward to such an assessment, and I notice that the committee is uneasy and wants a quick clarification of it. I have noted that. As far as the per mille limit is concerned, there is a discussion in all lots, and there are also differences of opinion between lots within the government. But the government has not proposed any change in the per million limit now. It is because we consider it too uncertain whether a reduction in the per million limit will have the desired effect in terms of fewer pleasure boat accidents and deaths. At the same time, we need to keep an eye on what is happening in Sweden in the future, we need to keep an eye on this with differentiated per million limits and look at its effects. I am absolutely sure this is a debate we will also come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1664	The working party has also stated in this setting that it is not really a good idea to lower the pro-mille limit if you do not get more control. The risk of detection is important if you are going to get a hold of the prom when driving a boat. This is also true today: we see that those that are taken often have higher per million than 0.8, which is what is allowed. I am pleased that the Council of State expresses the need to draw up a better knowledge base, and I wonder, are there any plans for more control and to take samples of more in terms of pro-mille at sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1671	My impression is that the responsible actors are working well on this today, and now we are moving towards a season in which the boat life is going to impress us – it looks like we are now, now that the summer is here. But I also want to draw attention to the individual's responsibility to travel safely and safely at sea, and there's something to focus on, too, be obs. Yes, a small promille is allowed on the sea, but nevertheless: in the accidents we see, it has been partly quite high promille. People must be conscious, people must not drive a recreational boat — nor a food boat — when they are affected in that way. It's just dangerous. But it is also important, as the representative says, that it is followed up by those who control, so that there is a real opportunity to be taken if you break the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1676	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1681	It is a well-known case that the Christian People's Party has repeatedly made proposals in Stortinget to lower the pro-mille limit for recreational boat drivers in recent years. However, in a government cooperation where alcohol policy instruments have been a demanding theme, government parties have agreed on the status quo for several of these provisions. At this turn bend, we have therefore accepted that we have not been able to implement our primary policy. However, we will continue to work internally in the government to promote our view of the per million limit at sea, and we welcome the presentation of the results of the Maritime Directorate's work as a basis for further dialogue on this matter with our government partners. The issue of maritime safety is also a question of how drug use contributes to serious accidents. The Maritime Directorate is now tasked with strengthening the knowledge base on this important issue, and then it is our hope that this in turn will allow for a knowledge-based dialogue both within the government and between government and opposition. I find it natural to use the last part of my post to address a warm and sincere thanks to the staff working daily in various parts of the Norwegian rescue service. It is a pleasure to be able to say that an overall committee – and therefore an aggregate one – is behind that ceiling. Work at the main rescue centres and underlying rescue centres is characterised by efficiency, calm and speed when the alarm goes. Crews and helicopters, life skates and coastguards perform regular searches and rescue operations under very demanding weather and light conditions, where high competence in combination with personal courage and determination is crucial when life is to be saved. Long distances, large sea areas and limited telecommunications infrastructure in Arctic waters contribute further to the difficulty of rescue work in Norwegian sea areas. A representative from SV was earlier interested in the amazing work that was done during the rescue operation in Hinloopenstredet on Christmas 2018, when «Northguider» was grounded there. We have also taken the freedom in committee to highlight that very matter as an example of the Norwegian rescue service at its very best. With that, I thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1692	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1710	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1717	Then it is time to debate the position that we as the Committee presented in relation to the Consumer Notice on 3 March. It's been a while, and in the meantime it has, among other things. due to the corona crisis, a little happened in the consumer field which it would have been nice to have included in the treatment of such an important notification. But today it is mainly the content of the message and in the setting I as the case rapporteur would like to record. I want to start by thanking the Committee for a constructive and good cooperation and for a lot of good work. The different parties, alone or in many different configurations, have promoted no less than 50 proposals. We have jointly succeeded in writing all together in many comments and in a joint proposal that the government should investigate whether the guarantee period for newly built dwellings should be increased from five to ten years, promoted as III in the cancellation. On that proposal, I would like to mention that in the case of an incubator it is not in the position on page 27 that the proposal is also being promoted by the Progress Party. It is wrong – it is promoted by an overall committee. So it's been 20 years since the last consumer notice was presented, and a lot has changed in the consumer area at that time. It is therefore appropriate for the government to present this Communication, which discusses important issues such as digital everyday life, debt and credit, housing market, sustainable consumption, the daily food industry, consumer challenges with criminality, international cooperation in this area and, of course, our consumer apparatus. In the Communication, the Government states that the priority consumer areas for them are the credit market, consumer challenges on the housing market, labour-life crime and sustainable consumption. I feel that there is a broad political consensus that precisely these consumer areas are very important now and require good, proactive action. I would now like to make a brief presentation of the proposals that a majority is making today. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Party of Advancement and the Centre, asks the Government to come back with a public service case from a consumer perspective, as this is not mentioned in the communication in any way, which was the concern of many hearing bodies. Several services are currently provided by private operators, where public orders are placed on behalf of users. It is in the areas of renovation, transportation, kindergarten, medical services or other welfare services. User payments have also increased on a number of previously publicly funded services, such as tolls, construction fees, medical visits, etc. When using services that are mainly financed by the tax code, it is traditionally defined as a citizen/user. If you buy a service in a market, you are defined as a consumer. With increasing user payments for services provided by the public sector, this distinction is challenged. A majority, including us in the Center Party, therefore looks forward to the government returning to the Stortinget with a public service case in a consumer perspective. So to II of the Committee's recommendation: the Debt Register was launched in the summer of 2019 and is an important tool to prevent debt problems. The register shall provide banks and other credit providers with better information and an overview of the amount of credit and consumption debt held by an applicant. However, there is a weakness in the register that it does not include all debt. The register should definitely cover all types of debt held by a borrower. This will allow one to get the most comprehensive picture of the individual loan seeker's leverage. Together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, the Centre Party proposes that the scheme be extended in the context of the State budget for 2021, while the government parties, together with the Progress Party, are given a majority in order only to ask the government to consider extending the register. It was a shame we didn't quite agree on that point. So to the earlier mentioned III in the recommendation: Housing is one of the biggest and most expensive investments people make in their lives. In today's law, the guarantee period for the purchase of a newly constructed dwelling is the same as for the purchase of goods such as washing machine and television: five years. Visible defects and defects in newly built dwellings will usually be discovered early and within the guarantee period expires. However, the problem arises when construction defects or other hidden damage and defects are discovered later than five years later. I am therefore very pleased that today there is a unanimous committee in favour of examining whether the right of return for newly built dwellings should be extended from five to ten years. Together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we in the Centre are otherwise promoting a number of proposals for which, unfortunately – unlike the three proposals mentioned above – it does not become a majority. These include: strengthening consumer protection for vulnerable groups, such as children and young people, those in need of universal design and those in poor digital competence. We also propose more powerful measures to dampen the credit growth of households and better protect consumers from unsafe consumer loans. In addition, we also have good proposals to turn consumption and production in a more sustainable and circular direction. I will come back to some of these in a later article and rounds of this article to address the proposals of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1745	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1750	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good and orderly solution in this matter. The Workers' Party will develop and maintain a safe welfare state. One of its most important features is that it creates security for people — security for getting help when you are ill, security for having a right to school and education, security for the community to take care of you and the family if the income base disappears, and security for us to have a sound consumer policy. In the time we have now, we see how important good consumer policy is. Now it is very challenging for many consumers and operators, for example. travel companies to comply with the law. Consumer rights are broken in several areas, are feedback from the Consumer Council. The enquiries there are many, and it shows the need to have a functioning consumer appliance. We expect the ministry to follow closely up the critical situation. In addition to providing security, consumer policy should protect us. Community law and rules on the free market are intended to protect our privacy, protect us from exploitation and unfair and misleading marketing. The Community must protect individuals from being held with unfair responsibilities in relation to the power of the major commercial operators. We also need mechanisms to protect individuals, so that they can complain and have equal access to legal proceedings. Consumer policy, in addition to providing security and protection, must also regulate the market against other needs of society. Climate is such a social need, a decent working life and that policies contribute to social justice are two other issues that the Labour Party believes are important for consumer policy. Strengthening consumer power so that everyone can make good and informed choices is essential for the consumer policy of the Workers' Party The working party is happy that a message came – finally! We support many of the descriptions, but disagree with the government's review tone, which is to transfer responsibility to the consumer and the industries. We believe that the government's restraint is reflected in this case. Almost none of the 50 proposals to which reference was made by the rapporteur-general will be accepted. When we have a government that also gradually downgrades the public welfare system and splits public services in line with market needs, the result is poorer transparency and poorer the ability to make informed and informed choices. In the context of this message, the Workers' Party promotes many concrete proposals for a better consumer policy. The report Children and Media 2020 from the Media Regulatory Board shows that social media is the everyday life of Norwegian children. Accessibility and information flows make them particularly vulnerable to social pressure and unwanted advertising. In particular, it is about pressure that affects self-esteem, self-confidence and the identity of children. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV therefore propose that the Children's Chapter of the Marketing Act be reviewed in order to better protect the children in the reality in which they live. We will limit advertising in public space and repeat our proposal to ban the marketing of cosmetic surgery. Globally, more than 60 pst of greenhouse gas emissions come from consumers. Norway is three times above the average CO 2 emissions per capita. From a climate perspective, we need to reduce consumption and stimulate increased re-use and efficient circular economy. In our national statistics, greenhouse gas emissions from households have been reduced since 1990. The figures show only emissions from goods produced in Norway. They do not take into account emissions from imported goods. According to a report from the SSB, purchases from foreign online shops have increased by almost five times from 2010. This is not part of our statistics. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes that a climate account be drawn up that takes account of this. Sweden has developed a method, and we propose that this method be transferred to Norway. Many climate challenges can be addressed through consumer policy. In this case, the Labour Party promotes a set of proposals, including: that mandatory labelling of the durability of products must be required of manufacturers and that manufacturers must provide information on harmful chemicals. People need to know what they're buying. The charging policy needs to be reviewed in order to promote climate and environmental consumer policy. Sustainability labelling must be applied to goods and services. This has to be solved internationally, but we believe that the Norwegian authorities have to be a driver to get this in place. I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1787	The representative of Kari Henriksen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1792	As I said, more than 20 years have passed since the last consumer policy notification was submitted. Since then there have been major changes in society, and the role of consumers has also changed. At that time, both smartphones and social media were something we didn't relate to. Norwegian consumers have access to a wide, diverse supply of goods and services from around the world. A number of societal developments now make it natural to update consumer policy. The message was submitted to Stortinget long before the corona virus struck us. In recent weeks we have been reminded of the importance of strong consumer protection. Several have engaged in misleading marketing of goods and services that are out there to protect us from this virus. So the message has quickly become more current than anyone imagined when it was submitted. Let me thank both the Council of State for the big message and the case rapporteur for bringing together the batches around important additions to the message. I'm going to try a short summary of the changes in consumer behaviour, which is also reflected in the communication, about the fact that the digital market has gained a significant place in people's behaviour. One consequence of this is that the physical boundaries are also more or less gone – trade is international. Furthermore, today we have a completely different, and correct, attention around the environment and sustainability. Other areas where we have seen a dramatic change in the last 20 years are in the housing market, in the credit market, and not least new challenges related to labour-life crime in the consumer market. The title of the Communication, ‘Green, smart and digital’, summarises the direction of the new consumer policy in many ways. The opposition has in several areas wanted to go beyond the message. This desire also has government parties in important areas. The majority have therefore come up with three request proposals, on the need for a public service reference in a consumer perspective, to assess the extension of the debt information system to cover several types of debt and to address the issue of an increased guarantee period for newly built dwellings. The government announces that it will come back with a strategy for the digital consumer everyday life, with a focus on children and young people. Furthermore, it shall identify the digital consumer competence of the population and, not least, shall focus on the supervision of digital marketing aimed at children and young people. As already mentioned, there is a majority in favour of asking the government to come back with a reference to public services from a consumer perspective. This has also been the subject of a number of hearings. As citizens, we receive more and more services where the public is responsible for delivery. The demand for quality, freedom of choice and price is increasing as new generations become consumers of these services. The working party and SV's approach to this is very special, seen with my eyes. In a note, they state that: ‘The government’s privatisation policy provides commercial operators with access to markets previously reserved for the public, thus contributing to the dismantling of the welfare state. In addition, it makes it even more demanding for consumers to seek out and exercise their rights.» We can hardly read the comment in any other way than that they want to return to the Telewerk and the NRK monopoly – as everyone at least found it in the service offer. But I doubt that this is what the people want today. For many people reading this setting, it may appear as a setting where different suggestions have been submitted in several parts. Let me mention some examples from the 50 or so proposals: taxing Google and Facebook, the removal of VAT on rents, new vocational training courses, reporting waste management from listed companies and the establishment of a public sharing economy development centre, to mention some of the proposals. A lot of this may probably have a lot to do, but if it belongs in this message, it can probably be discussed. In meeting with professional operators, it is essential that each consumer has good and secure rights so that they can make informed decisions and be protected against fraud and illegal marketing. Good consumer rights are essential for a trust-based market economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1823	Thank you to the rapporteur and the committee for good cooperation, and not least thank you to everyone out there who sent us recordings. I also have to make a brief comment that it was a pleasure to read a case in good news, even if the comments are written in a bookcase. I wasn't even born – or I was born, but at least I wasn't old enough to vote – the last time there was a big message about consumer policy, and there have been major changes in society since that time. In particular, we consumers have changed, and the fact that consumer policy is based on good consumer rights is essential for a trust-based market economy, as underlined in the notification. There are many things that require the proper functioning of the market in order to give consumers good conditions. The Communication discusses measures to strengthen the position of consumers in areas of particular challenges, and emphasises inter alia: the rights and privacy of consumers in the digital economy. It's a very important moment to underline. In fact, Norwegian consumers are at the top of the world when it comes to using new digital services. Extensive use of power services such as Netflix and the use of online banking and Vipps, for example, are good examples of this, and at a time now with home offices, quarantines, closures, etc. it has been seen that there is a lot in society that can take advantage of the opportunities that lie out there. The potential is high in the new digital everyday life, and it also gives Nordics, both as individuals, as families and as businesses, new opportunities and not just challenges. However, current consumption is largely across national borders. Where the former would like to be just a few major players, there are a number of large international companies that characterize our everyday lives as consumers today, for example. Facebook, Apple, Spotify, Google, Amazon, etc. The internationalisation of consumption is expressed in several ways, as is evident in this case. There are advantages to this, but there are also some challenges, and therefore it is very important for me here today to stress that it is right, but not least important to focus on international consumer policy and consumer protection, across just borders. The communication mentions many important aspects. Nevertheless, there are some things the Progress Party today will underline the importance of. Among other things, I think it is great that, in the form of a note, it is underlined that the care services of the future must facilitate that users can become more a resource in their own lives. The EESC believes that it is important to facilitate the use of several municipalities, for example: welfare technology. We have seen several good examples of how to counteract solitude, for example. with the AV1 robots for No Isolation for sick children or with the KOMP board for the elderly, which is a good new technology that is an excellent tool, but also an important factor in the fight against isolation and solitude. The Progress Party also assumes that in the future the government will follow up the Public Health Report Life throughout its life, which has many good things to do about this. For the Progress Party, it was also very important to get a comment that referred to the poor competition when it came to mobile networks. We have a majority to stress the importance of this, and to follow this up with the establishment of at least three mobile networks in Norway. This will benefit consumers and customers. Not least, for many years the Progress Party has been fighting to try to get up to 10 years in terms of the period of warranty on housing. It is very many times the most expensive investment we make, and the fact that we now get an investigation of this – and one case back on this – is the Progress Party very much appreciated. And not least, it was a particularly important point for us to now discuss user orientation and user requirements in response to public services – at that point we have a request proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1846	The climate and environmental crisis requires that we transform society as a whole in order to maintain our livelihoods, cut greenhouse gas emissions and use our resources more effectively. That is why consumer policy is more important than for a long time, because we must also contribute here to a green and just future. We have to make our consumption sustainable if we are to solve this crisis. But instead of getting a big message that responds to how consumer policy is supposed to help solve the big questions today, we've got a pretty toothless big message, characterized by good issues, but get good solutions. The government does not exploit the great potential of consumer policy to help resolve both the climate and the environment crisis. SV has therefore used the basis of this Communication to develop new policy solutions and to promote a whole range of 41 new proposals for a sustainable and fair consumer policy. It is a red and a green thread through many of these proposals, which are about more re-use and more co-use, circular economy and sharing economy. If we are to make our consumption more sustainable, our things have to last longer and can be repaired, they have to be reused in new forms, and we have to share more of the things we don't have to have for each of us: more reuse, more use. This is the option for the use-and-cast society that makes Norway now the country in the world where we throw the most electronics per capita. If we're to achieve this option, it doesn't keep making calls for good morals. Rather, we have to judge the economy, and consumer policy must contribute to it. Firstly, consumers will have goods that last longer and will have the right to have the goods repaired instead of having to throw and buy again each time. Today, for example, design was made. a good deal of electronics to break up at a certain point in time. We cannot accept that if our consumption is to become more sustainable. So we propose to extend the warranty period by connecting it to the assumed lifetime of the product, while at the same time the current two-year warranty period should be at the bottom. It will make manufacturers compete for the longest possible duration, and at the same time we will have requirements in the law on durability and circular design. When your mobile phone first breaks, SV suggests that you have the right to have it repaired. The dealer shall be obliged to repair it and the law shall require access to spare parts. It is a win-win solution – it gives better rights for consumers, more sustainability and at the same time a brand new repair economy, with new jobs. Therefore, SV also proposes new professional letters for repair workers, such as: Telephone and electronic repairers – professions that become very useful in the new circular economy. But our things shouldn't just last longer and can be repaired when they first break if we're going to get a sustainable consumption. We also need a shift from everyone – each of us – to have a drill in the booth that we might use once a year, so that we'd rather share a drill that we use when needed. We need more reuse, yes – but we also need more co-operation. We already have a proud tradition in Norway for cooperatives, joint ventures and co-operations. Now we have to take that tradition into consumer policy and into a new era. There have already been good examples, with car sharing services, we have equipment centres, tools in the library, city bikes, etc. Therefore, the task of policy must be to make it easier for consumers to create cooperative solutions. It could be to give start-up grants to purchase things to share with, electric cars, for example, so that the start-up costs are reduced. In addition, we can also facilitate our own public sharing services when it makes sense, as a tool in the libraries, that some municipalities do. The common denominator is that it's going to be easier to share each other's or common assets, so we don't have to buy each of ours. It makes sense for the wallet, it makes sense for the environment, and it also strengthens the position of consumers. So we have 41 proposals that show how we can do it. It is a pity that the government did not use this opportunity to draw up the concrete measures. – But at least I will address the SV’s proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1869	The representative Freddy André Øvstegård then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1875	This spring's most unpretentious adventure, because that's what we have to deal with this year, is about garage cleaning, for those who are so lucky to have such storage capacity – because that's what it's about – available. There is an equally shock-carded meeting with the consumer society each time this exercise is practiced. Congenital tools, tools and partially defective items are discarded without further thought — a catarist exercise that is about time-consuming, cheap, low-quality products and increasing purchasing power that makes it less and less interesting to take care of old acquisitions. Much of what was thrown could have been repaired with simple tricks, more spare parts available, good information or some time left. Because, as it says, waste is resources on the way. It is, as mentioned above, 20 years ago, the last big-time communication on consumer policy, and a lot has happened since then. The left is particularly pleased with the sub-title of the Communication – «green, smart and digital» – and in this way reinforces trends in modern consumer policy in the consumer field. When the opposition today promotes nothing less than 47 proposals, I do not see it as insurmountable dividing lines in Norwegian consumer policy, but rather as a desire to show impatience in this important area. I record that twelve of these proposals are more or less about the circular economy – recycling, conservation or re-use of resources. In this way I share the impatience of the opposition, and I would have happily embraced most of the proposals if the government had not for the longest time started working on a national strategy for the circular economy, and even the most restless of us should have patience to wait. The strategy, in line with the Granavolden Declaration, will most likely be presented during the autumn. Nevertheless, I would like to express expectations of the new strategy, not least in view of the fact that for more than five years the EU has been a long way to go in setting new standards in a world context. Norway, on its own, should have set itself such an ambitious goal for the longest time. Recognised objective — the lack of concrete measurement parameters and milestones has been one of the criticisms addressed to the EU in this field. I am therefore pleased that the EU's circular economy action plan, adopted a month ago, has reinforced efforts to monitor developments in the circular economy and develop new indicators in this area. This Communication reorganises the work on consumer issues. Consumer complaints shall be handled by the Consumer Protection Authority, while the Consumer Council shall be refurbished as a consumer interest organisation in the future. Supervision shall also have a specific responsibility for the knowledge base in the consumer sector. The left is also satisfied with the fact that the case is showing that the Consumer Protection Authority is to be located outside Oslo, and from my point of view it is particularly gratifying that the supervision is in the process of moving to my home state, Vestfold and Telemark. I am also pleased that the Consumer Council is given a freer and clearer role as a stakeholder organisation, so that the Council can be a strong consumer policy driver. The left hopes that the reorganisation of the consumer appliance will lead to enhanced consumer protection. The Consumer Council must be ensured as a strong and independent organisation for consumer policy interests and quality assurance information and advice to consumers. The Council must have a framework to provide it. In these days, the Consumer Council is experiencing a violent start-up, at the limit of what employees can reach. Let me express a pious wish that both government and magnificence remember this, in the interests of consumers. I started talking about garage cleaning and resources on the way. What does it take for me, and others with me, to take better care of and keep our consumables instead of throwing them away? I can point to at least six aspects: better quality of products, availability of spare parts, competence in maintenance, availability of repairers, good information and improved guarantee schemes that will help to make production companies and distributors more interested in repairing and maintaining rather than throwing away. This applies to electric drills and vacuum cleaners as to digital products. I believe that with the present communication, there is reason to look at the consumer interests of the future with mastered optimism – including in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1898	Like the other parties, the Christian People's Party believes that a forward-looking consumer policy that facilitates good consumer rights is very important. We also believe that this is absolutely essential for a trust-based market economy. It is more than 20 years since the last consumer policy notification was submitted. Since then, changes in society have taken place and the role of consumers has changed. As one of the world’s richest countries, also measured in purchasing power, Norwegian consumers have access to a wide and diverse supply of goods and services from around the world. We also have strong consumer protection. At the same time, a number of societal developments make it natural to review and discuss consumer policy now. There is a growing need to strengthen the rights and privacy of the digital economy, as well as to strengthen the knowledge, interests and rights of consumers relating to sustainable consumption, marketing, housing, debt and credit. The Christian People's Party will contribute to a consumer debate that focuses on responsibility for people, resource-efficient consumption and negative consequences of commercial impact on children and young people. Therefore, we are pleased that the notification addresses both rights and privacy and children and young people as digital consumers, while at the same time looking this up against digital competence and participation. We welcome the identification of digital consumer competence with special emphasis on children and young people. Many young people have digital platforms as part of their social life and have created virtual and digital community venues where they meet and talk to friends from around the world. In a positive perspective, youth builds teams and friendships across religion and culture, but from a consumer perspective, what they themselves can experience as their own free will is challenged. Because of age and lack of experience and critical sense, children have more difficulty in understanding what marketing is and what it is meant to be placed on the market — yes, at all to be able to recognise marketing and separate it from other communications. So when children and young people act as consumers at an increasingly younger age and in more and more channels, it goes without saying that children become an attractive target group for business, and new marketing channels give advertisers new and more opportunities to reach out to consumers. By using digital marketing channels, advertisers also have a greater chance of directing marketing to their target audience, which in turn gives more opportunity to reach out directly to children. Much of this marketing takes place in channels where parents do not have the same overview as before, as for example. in social media. Often we also see that this marketing is targeted at the child's age, and so parents do not necessarily see the same advertising, even though they are members of the same social network. That is why I am pleased that we are strengthening the supervision of advertising in digital spaces where children and young people are, with a goal of delimiting the commercial pressure on children and young people. We're going to continue to work to counteract body pressure in social media and to facilitate further work on ethical guidelines for the influence industry. I believe this will provide greater security for children and young people when they travel online. Young consumers are the workers of the future and good consumer rights are crucial for a trust-based market economy. In meeting with professional actors, it is essential that each consumer, regardless of age, enjoys good and secure rights. Only in this way can the consumer make informed decisions and be protected against fraud and illegal marketing, in particular in connection with online purchases and sales. The Christian People's Party therefore votes in favour of the Committee's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1917	Recently, we have been reminded of the importance of strong consumer protection. Consumer supervision has had to put a heavy strain on the misleading and aggressive marketing of products and services used to protect people from the corona virus. Cursed consumers contact the Consumer Council to get help to get compensation from traders who are unable to deliver what they have promised. This message was submitted to Stortinget before the Korona virus was a theme of the public debate. It addresses the changes in the everyday lives of consumers over the last decades and the challenges they have posed. In fact, more than 20 years have passed since the last Consumer Policy paper was presented, and we can safely conclude that the consumer role has changed since then. At the time, there was no smartphone or social media. Now these are important products and services that we use every day. Since then, the indebtedness of households has increased, and the impact of consumption on the climate has become increasingly apparent. I therefore believe it was high time that consumer policy was presented to Stortinget in its full scope. The purpose of the message is to provide government policies to strengthen consumer position in areas of particular challenges. We are pointing out here a clear direction for consumer policy in the years to come. It is important to bear in mind that much of the consumer policy and legislation in the field is designed in cooperation with the EU. This is absolutely necessary as many of the challenges are international. The title of the message, ‘The Consumer of the Future — Green, Smart and Digital’ sums up the direction of the government’s consumer policy in many ways. We will encourage consumers to make smarter and more sustainable choices, and we will ensure and strengthen consumer protection in the increasingly digital everyday life. I am particularly concerned about protecting children and young people, who are subjected to a strong marketing pressure through social media. The notification covers several areas where the government will work to strengthen the position of consumers. I would like to mention three examples. In many new networked products, such as toys, training bracelets and GPS clocks, consumer rights, privacy and security are poorly protected. The same applies to many digital services. There is a need for offensive action here. The Government shall establish a strategy for the digital consumer everyday life with particular emphasis on children and young people, strengthen knowledge of data protection rules and establish a national supervisory cooperation forum. We will identify the digital consumer competence of the population, and we will focus more on the supervision of digital marketing aimed at children and young people. Figures from the debt register show that as many as 30,000 people on average have nearly 1 million. NOK in consumption debt. It's very worrying. The government is now preparing the Debt Schemes Act, which is one of the most important measures to help people out of serious debt problems. We want to make the scheme more accessible, so that those who are going to have a debt regime get help faster. We also need to create a strategy to strengthen the understanding of the economy in the population. Knowledge of the personal economy is necessary to avoid debt problems. Another important theme is sustainable consumption. Here the government will be a driver of cooperation and voluntary schemes that contribute to more sustainable consumption. The Family and Culture Committee held an oral hearing on the message on 5 November last year and also delivered a thorough presentation on 3 March this year. I think that the hearing and discussions in the committee have been interesting, and I would like to make some comments on the committee's recommendation. The Committee would like to see a public service mention from a consumer perspective. I believe that the rights and opportunities of citizens, as users of public services, are best respected in different contexts than in consumer policy. At the same time, I also see the arguments for such a review, among other things. in the light of the increasing user payment for public services. I will therefore come back to Stortinget with a mention of this topic. The Committee would also like the government to assess the extension of the debt information system to cover several types of debt, and would also ask the government to decide whether the guarantee period for newly built dwellings should be extended from five to ten years. These are proposals that the government will follow in the future. I believe that the government's communication to Stortinget sets the framework for a forward-looking consumer policy. I would like to thank the Committee for its good comments, and I believe that the proposals are based on the wishes of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1940	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1945	If we're going to achieve our climate goals, we have to change our consumption. Consumers need to know more about their own emissions and what we buy, including: by strengthening consumer rights and labelling and control requirements. National statistics show that greenhouse gas emissions from households have been reduced by 17 pst. from 1990 onwards constitutes 8.2 pst. The figures do not take into account greenhouse gas emissions from the production of imported goods. If we look at the greenhouse gas emissions from the products we buy, consumers are responsible for more than 60 pst. of the greenhouse gas emissions on the globe and between 50 pst. and 80 pst. the consumption of land, materials and water in the world. The Labour Party today proposes a review of the tax policy, better labelling of goods and services, and that the government investigate the possibility of a Norwegian consumer-based climate accounting, as they have done in Sweden. This is what the government parties are against. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1950	I fully agree that what we consumers consume has a major impact on the climate. That's why the headline of our message is about sustainability – digital and smarter. I am committed to ensuring that consumers too can play an important role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Exactly as far as the proposal from the Workers' Party is concerned, there will be something we take with us in the further work. I see some challenges related to how to make this stamp between different countries on who actually has the climate footprint, because I think manufacturers also have a responsibility to do something about bringing down emissions from, for example. the local factory. But the whole time to be aware that what we consumers use will have a great impact on the climate, and to have incentives and work with different policies to ensure that we consume as much as possible, I'm very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1955	It was really a good introduction to my next question, on international cooperation, because sustainable consumer policy requires international cooperation, as the Council of State said. The government first says no to the model they have in Sweden, and they also say no to a proposal from the Workers' Party that the government should take the initiative for an extended international cooperation to register the sustainability image of goods and services. That's what the government parties are voting for. The Government limits its responsibility in the message to strengthening the existing international eco-labels. Why is the government not interested in extended international sustainability cooperation that goes beyond just climate and environmental policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1960	Norway is an active driver in very many of these forums, whether climate or other types of rights. I know that the Workers' Party has been subject to an Ethics Information Act, and there we share a common commitment that also goes on broader rights. The government is very clear that we are pursuing an ambitious climate and environmental policy here at home, but also in international forums. I want to assure the representative that this is something the government is actively working on in the various forums, whether in the UN, the EU or other international contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1965	As has been the case with many people, the Corona crisis has created major challenges for consumers too. As the representative Grimstad was inside, not least the Consumer Council noticed it, with a very great deal going on. There are many more complaints for mediation, while the denominator system is also under pressure. The Consumer Council was already in a difficult situation before the coronary crisis as a result of the changes they are currently undergoing, and reduced appropriations. I believe that it is now, in the corona crisis, and also afterwards, very important that we have a functioning consumer device with the capacity to assist all those who are now in trouble and in a difficult situation. Is the Minister following this closely, and is he prepared to provide the resources needed by the Consumer Council to cope with this situation and satisfy all consumers who make contact?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1974	Thanks for the important questions. Yes, this is something we follow closely, and we have a close dialogue with the Consumer Council and Consumer Protection through this very special situation. It is right for the representative to mention that an important change is being made. That makes it demanding for them. Therefore, we follow this extra carefully and have close dialogue. So it's always the way we want to grant what we think will be necessary and right in order to do the problem in a good way. Now we've been through a lot of rounds in Stortinget related to budgets. The next big milestone has been revised, and then of course we'll also look at this field to be sure that one has the framework needed to do a good job for consumers, and I'll say also for the whole community, and get things to work in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1985	Getting a home -- or a home, as I call it -- I know, and very many others are a terriblely expensive investment. In today's law, the guarantee period for the purchase of a newly constructed dwelling is the same as for the purchase of goods, such as: a refrigerator or dryer – five years. Visible errors are easy to discover and advertise. The problem is when, for example. construction defects or other hidden damage and defects are discovered after more than five years. The progress party has fought several times to extend the five-year period, as we believe it is too short, and we are very pleased today that there is a majority to consider whether the warranty period for newly built dwellings can be extended from five to ten years. I wonder, is the Council of State as impatient as I am? When can we start an investigation of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e1995	I am at least very impatient after fulfilling the mission I have received from Stortinget. That is why I would like to thank the representative for a good cooperation on the message and the setting, because I know that it has been important to get the message in port and to get good proposals that will be adopted today. I also think that the Committee puts it in a good way in its position, that this is a very important decision for consumers. There are enough of the stories that are bad to read, linked both to selling and not least to buying housing when one discovers things later that make one come in a very difficult situation. I agree with the Committee that ensuring that the housing is provided in a sustainable way and that it has a time horizon in terms of quality is important. So to the challenges that the Committee points to: What does it do with innovation when you have to take greater risks and be able to cope with a greater burden if there is damage? I think I'm very right about the committee to land on, and we're going to do that in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2002	Wherever children and young people go, they are bombarded with advertising of unrealistic ideals of beauty, and we now know that it can both cause body pressure and affect the mental health of children and young people. SV and the Christian People's Party have co-existed in Stortinget earlier on a number of request decisions on stricter regulation of the advertising industry in order to counteract this body pressure. Among other things, it has been decided to investigate a tightening of the marketing of cosmetic surgery. We have also recorded that there has been movement among the government parties since then. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State what the government's policy is, whether the government wants to ban this kind of marketing, and when we can see that matter at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2007	I would like to say thank you for the commitment that the representative and SV have shown over a long time in a very important field. It is absolutely right that we, as parties, have agreed on various proposals in Stortinget – among other things. on the labelling of reticent advertising, which I hope to bring up a case about. It's put a little bit on hold because of the corona, but hopefully it won't be very long. When it comes to the specific question, I have to get back to it, because I'm a little uncertain about what the status is right now. One thing about reticent advertising will hopefully come soon. At least it is important for us to follow different measures that can protect children and young people, because it is clear that they are extremely vulnerable to marketing and are unfortunately achieved in too many ways. That's why this is a problem that I'm very obsessive about, and that I also want to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2016	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2023	As many people have been involved, much has happened since the previous big message. The notification refers to the main trends during the last decades. Among other things, most Nordics use the Internet and digital platforms daily. It gives us all new opportunities, but also some challenges. Our children and young people live to a large extent in a digital everyday life, thus meeting many challenges as consumers. Children and young people are vulnerable, both in traditional shopping and online. The notification indicates that children and young people are experiencing increasing body pressure and purchasing pressure. I have been working as a health care professional for 20 years and have learned how this affected children and young people's mental health in a negative direction. It worries me that there is an ever-increasing body and purchasing pressure among our children and young people. Therefore, I am pleased that a unanimous increase has decided to strengthen the supervision of unhealthy advertising that targets children and young people, especially advertising that promotes unrealistic ideals of beauty and contributes to body pressure. The right considers that the supervision of advertising and marketing aimed at children and young people is very important and that there must be a high priority task. But creating unadvertised zones in the public space, as the opposition suggests, for example in schools, is not the way to go. It gives you a false sense of security. Children and young people will always meet in advertising both in public spaces and in social media. We can't protect children and young people from everything. What is crucial is that they acquire competence in unwanted marketing and advertising, so that they develop a critical sense of what they see and hear. The notification also refers to a study conducted by SIFO, which shows that children easily identify traditional and labelled marketing. On the other hand, they are less critical of the marketing they encounter on social media. It is important to take knowledge into account in the further work. In line with the government, the Right is concerned that children and young people should develop good digital consumer competence. I am therefore very pleased that the government will monitor the digital consumer competence with special emphasis on children and young people. I record that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party believe that responsibility is then placed on children and young people themselves. From that perspective, they seem to have forgotten the role of their parents or their superiors. The fundamental view of the right is that parents are primarily responsible for their children. Public responsibility is to enable parents to discharge that responsibility in the best possible way with their children and young people. Finally, the Government announces in the message that it will facilitate further work on ethical guidelines for bloggers, influencers, networks and advertisers, and will update the educational booklet on advertising used in schools, including: by including references to new marketing channels. These are important measures for which the Minister for Children and Family Affairs and the Government deserve commendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2036	One image that remains in both the message and Storting's treatment is that we are all exposed to a very large purchasing pressure, and we may need help to deal with this. But sometimes it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. The proportion of Nordics raising consumer loans has tripled in the last ten years. Figures from June 2019 show that the total consumption debt of the Nordics has increased to 117 billion. kr – an increase of 11 billion. kr only from the previous year. Studies of bank lending practices have shown that more than one third of these loans were granted without a sound assessment of whether the borrower could repay the money, even if there is now a requirement that banks must assess the ability to pay and exercise good banking skills before issuing consumption loans. The Labour Party believes that we must dare to use stronger political instruments to help people so that they do not get into an economic situation. We know that some of those who have major debt problems have mental or physical illnesses. We know that it often hits their closest. We also know that a situation where it is too easy to pay money can be terribly difficult for the individual and expensive to society. And it's the ones with the tight economy that's been hit hardest, those who might take up a new consumption loan to serve the loan that they couldn't serve, those who have lost control of their economy. When banks choose to provide consumer loans to people who are not sure that they can operate the loan, part of the explanation is that we have a debt collection and debt management system that sets up for the lender. The banks can expect to get the money back, they can send the claim to the debt collection agency and on to expenses from the tax collector. Banks bear little risk. We believe that the banks must take greater responsibility. That is why we have proposed earlier, and we propose again that loans granted in breach of the rules should not be sent to debt collection agencies. It had meant that the banks themselves had to have documented that the requirements for granting a loan were met. And if they weren't, the banks themselves were at risk. This would have raised the threshold for banks to grant loans to people who shouldn't have. In addition, a ceiling must be set on the amount of costs that can be added to a claim. But also this goes against the government parties. Unfortunately, the government parties choose to vote for good proposals that could actually have made a difference, and that could have helped them as this treatment really should have helped.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2049	The impact of the advertising industry on children and young people in particular has been discussed for a long time. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised at the contribution made by the representative Olli, who emphasises this by identifying the digital consumer competence with special emphasis on children and young people. Yes, perhaps doing some action to strengthen the digital consumer competence of children and young people will be positive, but I think it is naive that we should not recognise that advertising works – that is why it is a billion-dollar industry – and that we should not also recognise that the advertising press has become significantly larger in recent years, at least since the representative Olli was among the children and young people who were exposed to advertising in the community around his school. Therefore, we should be able to find measures to reduce the total advertising pressure, in particular against children and young people. I think that would have been positive both in terms of body pressure and mental health, and also in terms of the large purchasing pressure, which is also not sustainable, to look at another part of the big message. The reason I drew myself is because we're in the middle of a crisis that hits people's economy hard. We already know that unsecured debt, consumption loans and credit have been an increasing problem, and now there is also reason to fear a wave of payment problems. The time is ripe for more stringent regulation of the industries that make billions of dollars for people to fall further and further into the debt spiral. It shall not be free to thin out those who are struggling to pay the bills every single month, and who never see the debt mountain decrease, but still pay to some companies that are also bankrupt every single month. We suggest that both interest and debt costs be capped, so that small consumption loans cannot develop into economic ruin for people. We have seen that the aggressive marketing of consumer loans and credit that exploits and deceives people has not stopped despite intensifications, so now we believe that the industry has used up the opportunity they have received. We can no longer accept advertising for consumer loans and credit, and it suggests SV in this case. This type of regulation will only become more important after this economic crisis has really taken place in the private economy of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2058	The consumer is in a completely different situation now than when the Committee gave its opinion on the Consumer Notice. It is still up-to-date – keep me well – but new and more urgent challenges have arisen as a result of the coronary situation. The concept of force majeure is in many ways bad news for the consumer. Many who had secure jobs and bright prospects two months ago, and made contracts on expensive capital goods such as housing and cars, can today feel that they are unable to meet their obligations. I think it is right to point out to the advice of our consumer authorities that it is important in today's situation to engage in dialogue with the contracting partner, ask for understanding and negotiation – as early as possible – instead of doing what is often easy in such a context: push the problem ahead and stick your head in the sand. I believe it is both right and fair that the companies respond with the same roughness as the Stortinget has shown to our business. In addition, many people in travel, culture and leisure experience no return to what they have paid, even if they have a right to do so, when the trip or event is cancelled. In such situations, it is important that our consumer advice is patent and manned to deal with situations that could lead consumers into long-term debt situations. Many consumers would like to help businesses get through this crisis and do so by failing to require reimbursement or by accepting different forms of credit. Others, in turn, have experienced a significant deterioration in their financial situation and are unable to be lenders for different companies. A principle must be that consumers who are unable to do so should have the option of choosing between vouchers or reimbursement. Consumer rights are there to protect people in a difficult situation. It is therefore important that businesses respect laws and regulations. The crisis situation that has arisen is demanding, and it is up to both business and political authorities to deal with it in a way that offers the same confidence as the crisis has otherwise been. It has become very clear that people who rent dwellings are also sitting at the bottom of the table in this situation. If you own a dwelling, you can get out of the mortgage, get a historically low interest rate, etc. If you're renting, you're totally dependent on a benevolent landlord. We believe that this makes clear a significant review of the rental market and the rights of the tenants. In fact, many tenants are among the most vulnerable in society, including with regard to consumer rights. This is a problem we're going to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2073	I would like to include two relationships that I did not have in my article. One is that together with SV, we promote a proposal for a separate Ethics Information Act in the Centre Party. The Ethics Information Committee has been committed to imposing information obligations on traders in relation to social responsibility and the follow-up of supply chains. The government party Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and the Green Party, promoted a document 8-proposal on precisely this in 2016. I hope the Minister, from the Christian People's Party, still sees the importance of such a law in order to influence that workers in other countries are not grossly exploited. We politicians have a responsibility to facilitate consumers' informed choices and to act ethically. So although I have good reason to believe that the Christian People's Party is engaged in ethical trade, the proposal for its own ethical information law by the government parties is not supported today. So how does the minister intend to follow up the party's previous policy in this area? For example, he wants to. follow up the recommendations of the sample at a later stage? At the bottom of the debate, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the consumer rights we have mentioned in the Chamber today have definitely been challenged in the coronary crisis we are in the middle of. Unfortunately, as a result of the crisis in many sectors, consumer rights have been violated differently, for example: in travel, where contracts concluded by consumers are not complied with, cancelled or suspended. Although many consumers would like to contribute, with us politicians, to the survival and tourism of businesses and other industries not completely collapsing now, we will probably see with clarity a number of examples later this year that the coronary crisis affects not only all of the crisis packages that we at Stortinget have given, but also individuals and families in the role of consumers – not least if these have also been hit in a different financial way as a result of covid-19. Our consumer rights are for protecting people in a difficult situation. It is therefore important that the laws and regulations we refer to in today's debate are also respected in times of crisis. I therefore believe that we in this room with consumer policy as responsibility should be extra careful on behalf of consumer rights in the continuation of the coronary crisis and in its aftermath. With the serious words, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I would like to thank you for a good debate, a debate that I experience makes visible the importance of consumer policy. It covers so many areas, and it affects everyone in society. That is why I look forward to the Committee working on further improving our consumer policy on issues to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2088	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2105	As the rapporteur, I would just like to refer briefly to what the committee has written, where we say that the committee refers to the notification and takes note that the government has chosen to withdraw Prop. 48 L for 2019-2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2110	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 9 and 10 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2141	First, I would like to thank the Committee and the Council of State for their very good cooperation in these matters, which I think are quite complicated. These things, Inner. 169 L for 2019-2020 and Innst. 170 S for 2019-2020, takes up the EU's strengthened consumer legislation and proposes the necessary changes to different laws to clarify and comply with Decision No 17 of the EEA Committee. 172/2019 of 14 June 2019 amending Annex XIX to the EEA Agreement. Accordingly, EU Regulation 2017/2394 on ensuring the proper and effective enforcement of pan-European consumer protection rules was adopted in the EEA Agreement. It's not just about numbers and lines and numbers of these different decisions from the EEA. This is an important issue in consumer policy, because these matters will strengthen the legal position of consumers in the international consumer society we have today, and that is something we discussed in the previous case. The Committee endorses this position and welcomes the fact that the government has confirmed that its scope for action has been fully exploited in this matter. The Committee noted that there was some disagreement regarding the enforcement body to be empowered to remove digital content. The Committee has had good dialogue with the Council of State on these issues, and it was clarifying. The Committee therefore supports the Government's proposal that enforcement bodies should be able to apply to the courts to oblige third parties to remove digital content. The Committee also notes that it is estimated that there is no need for increased budgetary impact but that there is some uncertainty about this. The Labour Party, together with the Centre Party, is therefore promoting a separate proposal on this, asking that this be explained in the budgetary process for 2021. I take up the Workers' Party and the Senter Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2158	The representative of Kari Henriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2163	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good speech, good presentation and good dialogue and the Committee for good work. So here we are proposing a change to the marketing law, and in the proposal we are proposing changes to the law to implement the regulation on consumer protection cooperation in Norwegian law. We also propose that the Storting give its consent to incorporating the regulation into the EEA Agreement. It shall ensure the proper and effective enforcement of pan-European consumer protection rules across borders. It regulates cooperation between EU/EEA enforcement bodies in cross-border consumer cases and the powers of enforcement bodies to investigate infringements and enforce consumer protection rules. The implementation of this Regulation also requires amendments to Norwegian legislation, and it concerns in particular consumer supervision, but also the Directorate-General for Health, the Agency for Medicinal Products, the Authority for the Lottery, the Air Safety Authority, the Directorate for Media, the Directorate for Maritime Affairs, the State Railways and the State Road Administration. We do not propose further investigation and enforcement powers than is required by the regulation as a minimum. That Regulation empowers enforcement bodies to investigate whether an infringement has occurred and to stop those infringements. In particular, it focuses on investigating and stopping infringements of the digital sphere. The Regulation shall ensure that enforcement keeps pace with digital developments. In the hearing, many expressed the view that the Regulation opens the way for third parties to be required to eliminate illegal digital content. Here there were different opinions among the hearing bodies. In the legislative proposal, the government proposes that the courts deal with issues relating to the removal of digital content, with the exception of the cases of the Medical Products Agency. I am pleased that a joint committee supports this proposal. A requirement that matters be brought forward by the administration and dealt with in the courts will ensure that thorough assessments are carried out by two bodies. The key is to ensure the proper management of difficult and fundamental issues of removing digital content on the network. It is therefore important to ensure key legal certainty guarantees. Already today, a functioning and established judicial process has been found in the copyright law to eliminate digital content. The solution in the copyright law shows that issues relating to the removal of digital content are suitable for treatment in courts as well. It is difficult to specify the economic consequences for the courts as a result of the legislative proposal, on which the rapporteur was concerned. This is because the costs will vary on a case-by-case basis, including: in view of the number of parties to the case, the complexity and the number of days in court. It is also the case that it would be a high threshold to oblige third parties to remove illegal digital content. We therefore do not see a great deal of cause for action in the courts. By ensuring consumer rights, we provide good markets and a level playing field across national borders throughout the EEA territory. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee supports the proposal for the implementation of the regulation in Norwegian law. I believe that these changes will make an important contribution to the enforcement of cross-border consumer legislation. It also implies a necessary and prolonged modernisation of the enforcement rules. Implementation of the Regulation will strengthen pan-European cooperation on the enforcement of consumer rights. For consumers, traders and society in general, it is important that enforcement bodies have the tools they need to investigate infringements and act quickly and effectively when detecting offences. We believe that the legislative proposal will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2188	I will not extend the debate or try to repeat the title and numbers on that matter, but I will only provide a brief explanation of vote that SV will support proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. I understand that it is difficult to make the administrative and resource implications for the courts now, but I hope that it can be made the next budget proposal. It's important, and you're already struggling with the resource situation in the courts. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his good work on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2197	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2210	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2222	During the debate, Marit Arnstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Temporary law on the continuation of regulations based on the Korona Act shall be replaced by the following: § 1 Purpose and duration Regulations based on temporary law on statutory homes to remedy the consequences of outbreaks of Covid-19 etc. [[Korona Law]] continue to apply until 27 May 2020. The king may, in whole or in part, repeal the regulations given by reason of the Korona Act before that date. If, in total, representatives representing at least one third of the members of the Grand Duchy can no longer support a specific regulation, or parts of a regulation, and if they express this in writing in line with the adopted working arrangements of the Grand Duchy, the King shall immediately abolish the provisions in question. The decision to repeal the regulation, or parts thereof, shall be notified in writing without delay. § 2 Entry into force and repeal of the Act The Act shall enter into force immediately and shall be repealed on 27 May 2020’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2319	It is first voted on in Section 7. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2334	The remainder of I and II and III are voted on. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2346	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2360	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2379	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2398	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8-11, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 12 and 13, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 14–15 and 23 from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 16-22, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16–22, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The government is asked to change the overall objective of the exercise of ownership in state-owned companies, as follows: ‘Category 1 and 2 companies provide the highest possible return over time and actively contribute to the objectives of the Paris Agreement’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to transform the country’s ‘expectations’ into companies in terms of sustainability, care assessments, human rights, employee rights, tax policy, etc. to ‘requirements’.’» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for concrete measurement indicators to be set up for the company’s due diligence and management of both risk and actual damage to humans, society and the environment.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: «The government is asked to draw up clear guidelines on the fiscal policy of state-owned companies, in line with SPU's expectations of companies in which the fund invests. The Boards of Directors of companies where the guidelines are not complied with and where the State is a majority shareholder shall be replaced.’;» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to update the government’s guidelines on remuneration and other remuneration for senior employees of government-owned enterprises and companies, so that one of the main principles of formation of wages and salaries is that directors’ salaries should not exceed the Prime Minister’s salary.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the use of variable remuneration and bonus schemes is tightened, as well as that the size of pension schemes and termination benefits for senior employees of government-owned enterprises and companies are reviewed with measures to reduce the total remuneration. Developments in the annual government budgets shall be notified back.’;» Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The government asks the government to review the governance fees of state companies with the aim of reducing the fees. The annual growth of remuneration shall not exceed the general wage growth in Norway, measured in absolute terms.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2468	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government asks the government to require sustainability reporting of state companies in line with the TCFD framework. The reporting shall be audited by an independent third party.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce a measure of at least 40 pst. women in the boards of all companies in which the State holds a holding.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2492	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8, 9 and 11, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the guidelines on remuneration and other remuneration for senior employees of government-owned enterprises and companies, in order to take into account that companies in which the State is a majority shareholder shall follow the government’s guidelines on remuneration of directors.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the remuneration and other remuneration policies for senior employees of government-owned enterprises and companies in such a way as to ensure that the total remuneration over time does not grow faster than the general wage trend.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to reduce the total remuneration of senior employees of government-owned enterprises and companies.» The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2521	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that the use of variable remuneration and bonus schemes is restricted, and that the amount of pension schemes and termination benefits for senior employees of enterprises and government-owned companies is reviewed with measures to reduce the total remuneration.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2541	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, like the EU, and, as a result of the covid 19 outbreak and the economic consequences of the virus, is taking action to address the increased potential risk of foreign acquisition of strategically important industries in Norway. In this context, it is necessary to draw up a plan of measures to ensure the protection of companies of social security or strategic importance, if they are threatened by purchases from third countries. In this context, state ownership should be actively used to avoid strategically important interests being subject to foreign acquisition.’» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2558	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of state ownership to become a strategic tool to contribute to the transformation of the Norwegian economy.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to come back to Stortingen with its own case during the autumn of 2020 with concrete proposals on how to take strategic action to secure national anchoring and long-term industrial capital for enterprises or industries that could have national significance in order to: safe development of Norwegian natural resources contribute to climate and environmental impact-focused migration; develop a strategic competence environment; contribute to the development of technology of international interest; strengthening export revenue’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a new review of state ownership that assesses how state ownership can actively contribute to strengthening national value creation and achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. This review shall include: a strategy to increase the share of GDP in the land-based industry. a strategy to strengthen the national ownership of companies listed on Oslo Stock Exchange. an assessment of how state and national ownership can contribute to achieving preparedness and security policy objectives. a strategy on how state ownership can contribute to strengthening Norway’s competitive advantage in the low and zero-emission economy and contribute to low and zero-emission solutions abroad.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose to increase, not to reduce, state ownership.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a new ownership instrument aimed at national anchoring of ownership in strategically important companies of national importance and to increase the value of these holdings in the long term. The company should also be able to receive funds from the State budget.’.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the State uses its position as a majority shareholder to ensure that the remuneration and other remuneration of senior employees of the relevant companies is consistent with the government’s guidelines on senior remuneration. In addition, the State shall strive to ensure that its guidelines on remuneration of directors apply to all companies in which the State holds a holding.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to use its power of ownership to ensure compliance with the government’s guidelines on directors’ salaries and expectations for directors’ fees and to vote to replace the members of government boards who do not follow these guidelines and expectations.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2626	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 15, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The size asks the government of ownership to ensure that companies integrate climate risk into their ordinary activities and report on this in line with the TCFD framework, as already done for financial investments through the Bank of Norway and the Swedish Social Security Fund.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to use its power of ownership to ensure compliance with the guidelines and to replace directors who do not comply with the government’s guidelines on directors’ salaries in companies where the State assumes that they are to be followed.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2671	A total of 21 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-4, from Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 5-21, from Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5–21, from the Socialist Left Party: Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a model for a licensing system for the cruise industry, where a limited number of concessions are auctioned each year based on the resilience of nature and coastal communities, with strict environmental requirements and ring-effect requirements for local business, for example through the use of local guides, the purchase of local food and good conditions. wages and salaries and employment in own and rented enterprises.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all cruise ships operating in Norwegian fjords, vulnerable areas of Norwegian waters or Norwegian cruise ports operate in line with the requirements for emissions of NO X and SO X, as described in the Regulation on Environmental Safety for Ships etc.’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the use of zero-emission technology for cruise ships for all Norwegian cruise destinations from 2024.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting emission-free operation of cruise ships, including entry and exit to all Norwegian cruise destinations, as soon as technically feasible.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the prioritisation of approaching cruise ships from 2021 to document the use of climate and environmental measures through, for example, documentation of the Energy Efficiency Design Index and Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator [[EEDI]] [[EEOI]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to instruct cruise ships to use shore-side electricity in ports where shore-side electricity is available.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to require zero emission solutions in all cruise-related bus services from 2022 onwards.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting zero-emission solutions in all transport of goods, waste treatment, maintenance and other services related to cruise ship arrivals from 2022.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to work to extend the Emission Control Areas zone to the north of the 62nd parallel.’ [[ECA]] Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of a heavy oil ban on Svalbard and World Heritage fjords, with effect from 1 January 2021 and on the entire Norwegian coast with effect from 1 January 2025.’; Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the provision of shore-side power systems with standardised interfaces for connection and disconnection so that arriving cruise ships can use the same type of equipment in all Norwegian cruise ports.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to authorise municipalities to impose restrictions on the maximum number of cruise passengers per day and the maximum number of cruise calls per day.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider instructing municipalities to assess the availability of alternative and more suitable berth areas for cruise activities based on environment, safety and passenger volume.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Enova prioritises funds for maritime nutrition to stimulate the faster deployment of shore-side electricity in cruise ports.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asked to establish a register of posted workers in Norway.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to step up its control of the obligation to watch and enforce the order liability for public wages and salaries.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to define a limit on the number of days of cabotage driving for buses in Norway, following a pattern from Denmark.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2791	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen local authorities’ access to cruise ships and cruise tourism.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an overall assessment of the preparedness for cruise traffic and with particular emphasis on the north.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2815	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for increased control of cabotage in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2832	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the appropriate presentation by the government of an overall case of sustainability in the cruise industry.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. Red has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2859	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2878	During the debate, Terje Aasland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to set up a joint committee to propose legislative changes and arrangements for the implementation of Norwegian wage and working conditions for shipping in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian coast. The committee’s proposal shall be submitted in the notified maritime industry marshalling notification.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2911	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests a change in the daily per mill limit for the operation of a recreational boat below 15 metres from 0,8 per mille to 0,2 per mille.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of a high-speed certificate which requires both a theoretical and a practical test.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2944	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for strengthened rules to operate fast recreational craft, such as: separate certificate, practical training and test requirements and reduced per mill to 0,2 per mille.’» The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e2980	A total of 47 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–15, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 16-18, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 19-22, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 28-30, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 23-27, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 31–47, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 32 to 40 and Nos 42–47, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asked to conduct an investigation into how to ensure that all households are offered high-speed broadband through the fibre network within five years, and to return to Stortinget on a case-by-case basis.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend the Consumer Purchases Act by extending the period of warranty by linking it to a mandatory marking of the assumed life on the product, while at the same time the applicable right of return of two years from the moment of purchase acts as a lower limit.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose the necessary changes to legalise a consumer’s right to repair and repair obligations for dealers and to ensure that requirements on durability, access to spare parts and circular design are incorporated into the Consumer Purchases Act.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asking how the Ecodesign Directive can be used even better to contribute to longer durability and better repair possibilities, especially for products produced in large volumes, such as smartphones and PCs.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the benefits and disadvantages of removing or reducing VAT on repairs and reporting back to Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the benefits and disadvantages of removing or reducing VAT on rentals and returning to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to introduce product life and repairability labelling schemes.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government requests the initiative to introduce a new labelling scheme for clothing that standardises information to consumers on textiles and quality with regard to the expected service life, wear and durability and returns to Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case to establish new vocational training courses for repairers such as shoemaker, tailor, repairer of clothing, telephone and/or electronic repairer.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for legislative changes to ensure recycled raw material as an input in production in the construction industry and in the production of fertilisers and soil mixtures.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a case to ensure a separate requirement for listed companies to report on waste management, with the intention of ensuring traceability and control of commodity flows.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortingen with proposals to extend producer responsibility so as to provide incentives for the maximum possible service life for the products, to the maximum extent possible for reuse and suitability for material recovery and to reduce the content of hazardous compounds for health and the environment in the products.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with a case to set up a public centre for the development of the new sharing economy.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asking for adequate return to the Storting with proposals to strengthen co-operation in Norway, including grant schemes for the establishment of new co-operation and co-operation schemes, advice on such initiatives and legislative and regulatory reviews to propose changes to facilitate such activities, or by other means to support them under ideal shared economic initiatives and cooperatives where they share each other’s or joint assets.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case to support public sharing services such as lending new goods from the libraries and the urban bike systems.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e3093	There is a vote on proposal No. 41, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to propose to amend the law on second-hand trade by removing the condition of police authorisation in order to conduct second-hand sales.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e3110	There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In order to strengthen consumer protection and privacy, the Norwegian Government asks the Norwegian Government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with a case on the Norwegian Action Space for stronger regulation of its business in Norway to multinational technology companies such as Facebook, Google and Apple, including the basic interest tax on the collection and use of personal information.’; Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e3127	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 28-30, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish a guarantee note in connection with the sale of new dwellings, which representatives of builders and contractors must be connected.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government asks for review of the Consumer Purchases Act and proposes how the durability and access to spare parts can be incorporated as part of the basis for assessing the conformity of the goods with the purchase contract. The review must also include an assessment of the requirements that should be imposed for spare parts to be available for the foreseeable life of the product and of how information on durability and access to spare parts can be made available to the consumer.» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and submit proposals to the Storting for changes to the right of return and the burden of proof imposed on the seller, which strongly stimulate the provision of products with longer shelf-life on the market.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e3157	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23–27, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting for an Ethics Information Act, including proposals on how to penalise an infringement of the law.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: «The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget no later than the spring of 2021 with a proposal to prohibit the marketing of consumer loans and credit.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: «The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals to impose caps on consumer loans and credit.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that circular solutions and waste reduction are required in all public tenders.» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case to introduce a requirement for the incorporation of recycled plastic into all relevant products traded in the Norwegian market, for example after the incorporation of advanced biofuels.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e3197	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19–22, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government requests the appointment of a public body to investigate changes in the consumer role and the implications for the work on consumer rights. In particular, the committee shall examine how consumer protection can be safeguarded in the face of a development in which consumers are increasingly involved in production and where there is an increasing pace of development from supply to service purchase.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case on measures to limit advertising in public spaces, for example by establishing advertising-free zones in close proximity to schools.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting a review of the regulation on the placing on the market of non-medical cosmetic operations aimed at imposing a ban on the marketing of cosmetic surgery which is not part of medical treatment.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose a regulation to enable all professional repairers to repair goods without breaching the guarantee.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e3231	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 18, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether the charging policy in Norway promotes or inhibits a climate-friendly and environmentally friendly consumer policy.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to take action and to promote a proposal for the Storting with measures to limit the use of energy drinks by children’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e3255	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to review consumer legislation in order to assess the need for changes to ensure that consumer policy in total becomes more sustainable.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e3272	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–15, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for review of the Children’s Chapter of the Marketing Act and return to Stortinget with proposals to ensure that children and young people are adequately protected against marketing in today’s modern media everyday life, and in particular when placing on the market could adversely affect health.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to identify groups that are particularly vulnerable to digital exclusion and incompetence, and to propose measures to ensure that everyone has the digital competence needed to ensure their ability and access to digital surfaces.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether universal design regulators should be given stronger instruments and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to clarify the obligation of lenders to obtain debt information in the context of the new Financial Contracts Act.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to extend the debt register to include all liabilities, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2021.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a legislative proposal to ensure that consumer loan banks cannot sell consumer loans due or use the public collection apparatus if they are unable to demonstrate that the requirements for granting loans have been met.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked to propose a ceiling on costs that protects consumers in difficulties of payment against excessive costs and uncontrolled debt growth.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to submit a proposal for the introduction of cap rates in Norway at approximately the same level as the Finnish interest rate ceiling for the 2021 budget.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider setting up a legislative committee that looks at changes in the law of disposal in connection with the law on ownership and the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on disposal.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the consequences of the level of conflict of ownership of NOK 10000 and whether insurance schemes can contribute to less conflict in residential transactions, as well as to document the claims in the proposition on the power relationship between the buyer and the seller.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the possibility of imposing a mandatory labelling of the presumed durability of products on producers and to assess the need for contractual rules to facilitate the appropriate enforcement of requirements by the consumer within the estimated durability of the products’.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose that all products containing harmful chemicals should have a content declaration showing the substances and their quantities contained in the products.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the ILO, the UN, the EU and other relevant international actors to set up an international sustainability labelling system for goods and services, which balances the interests of the workers’ environment and economic interests.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the possibility of a Norwegian consumption-based climate accounting according to the model of the Swedish National Environmental Protection Agency.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the inclusion of mobile phones and other frequently used electrical consumer products in the EU Ecodesign Regulations with clear requirements related to the circular economy.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e3373	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e3392	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e3469	During the debate, Mr Henriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make its own assessment of the economic impact on the courts of the implementation of the Regulation [[EU]] The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e4521	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e4531	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-21.ana.ud160e4596	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
