ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e28	The President will propose that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting on infectious diseases, and it is deemed to be adopted. The so-called alternate of Rogaland, Leif Erik Egaas, is now taking his seat. The representative, Siv Jensen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e40	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Erlend Wiborg, Solfrid Lerbreckk and myself, I have the honour to propose a courtesy vow for the pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e45	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e61	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Guri Melby, Monica Mæland and Linda Hofstad Helleland will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e70	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. I'm worried about the messages we hear in schools and kindergartens all over the country. There are reports of a shortage of temporary budgets, different interpretations of legislation, increased labour pressure and teachers who had already worn out for the autumn holidays. There is increasing sick leave in kindergartens and schools. I've heard of teachers who have already quit. The work from this spring is cancelled, and already overworked teachers are told to do double work on tight budgets. The short-lived shipper’s roof in spring has been replaced by a long-lasting intense work pressure on both teachers, employees and students, who now have to plan with great certainty for the school year to last. This is not black paint, but the reality out there, where one will do his best, but has no resources and people to stretch to – stretch for all the children who need community school and kindergarten. In the facebook group Korona virtue for digital teachers, which I believe the Council of State is looking into every now and then, which was created in eagerness to share and help each other when the school was shut down, is now not just sharing digital tips, one discussing what is needed to help in school everyday life. Infection protection is requested, more resources are needed for temporary workers, for the sharing of classes, and questions are asked in the introduction of new plans. And most importantly, national leaders, more people and resources are demanded and the government stops its favorite activity: pushing the municipalities in front of it. Teachers and employees in schools and kindergartens who stood up for work in our house now feel forgotten. Has the government forgotten them?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e83	I want to start by saying that I share the representative's concerns. We also get clear feedback both directly from teachers and principals and – not least – from the trade unions and KS that there are a lot of people who have experienced that they have made the knit very much over a very long time. For many, this harvest may have been worse than the spring was, precisely because you now see that this is something that is going to last over time. We've been very clear from the very beginning that you have to be prepared that this is a marathon and not a question, and that you have to dispose of the resources afterwards. We've also been very clear all along that the government is going to take the bill. We're going to set up for the municipalities. That's what I mean. We showed it to be full now when we brought over 7.7 billion. kr to the municipal sector for the next six months. There are also still unused beauties at County Councils of the municipalities that have had the biggest challenges, in particular related to many quarantined, many with home education, etc. So there's no doubt that the government has set up with money, and it's going to. What has been the challenge is that I think many advisers have not been sure if it was true, and thus have not wanted to change the budgets of the schools. This is why we have been sitting with the same temporary budgets that were adopted in October/November last year and the same budgets for clean-up adopted. I believe that is too defensive, and I hope now that there will be a change in that, when we have now really shown that we are making money. We have been very clear that a large part of the increased framework we are now giving to the municipal sector is precisely justified by the needs of schools and kindergartens, and that it is important that local politicians now prioritise it, and that they do not spend that money on other things. We have to put in temporary workers when the teachers are sick, we have to pay teachers overtime when they work overtime, that kind of thing. I also believe that pointing to the municipalities, which are actually employers in this situation, is not a discharge. It's about placing the responsibility where it belongs. But there is no doubt that this is a virtue where both the state and the municipalities have to contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e96	I just have to note that the Council of State continues to push the municipalities in front of it and does not take the responsibility that I believe is on the government. Billions have been set aside when business was to be saved. The schools and kindergartens also need money, and now the government is more concerned about complaining about the bill. The most acute thing is people and resources. As the teacher Monica described it, she needs time – time for everything she needs to reach, time to fix, time to guide and guide, to plan, to calm, to be a wife and a mother. Kindergarten already reported during the fall holidays that the temporary budgets had been used up. Schools say they don't have the money to put in temporary workers. VG reports that special-purpose educators are used as temporary workers rather than as special-purpose educators. It's the temporary budgets. It's a lot of pressure. Will the Council of State do what she can to put in place the necessary resources, so that there are enough people and one can put in temporary workers where needed? Will the government do its part of the job to increase the temporary budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e103	I believe the government has really done its part in making funds available. Then I wonder if the representative thinks that we should rather earmark money for schools and kindergartens instead of sharing out the way we tend to do, that we divide it by population, student numbers – that kind of thing, and that we actually trust that both local politicians and the local administration are doing well to see what is the biggest needs in their municipality. We know that there are quite big differences. Some municipalities have had very high expenses on the kindergarten side. Others have had very high costs of care for the elderly. We've thought it's right that they get an opportunity to prioritize it, but we've been very clear that expenses for school and kindergartens are being compensated. So that means they have to spend money on it. This isn't just about money. It's also about the fact that sometimes it can be difficult to access people. We have had several meetings, including: KS and ask if there is something we should do to help with the temporary situation, for example. For the time being, we have not received feedback on this, but we are ready to look at that kind of problem: what is the state that can do to put up and help the municipalities in the very tough job that I know they are now in, to ensure that we get good framework conditions for good training around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e110	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e115	One doesn't do enough. The promises for now have not helped, but I am glad that the Council of State is willing to see if you can do more. This week, VG could reveal that 14,000 primary school students have had their special education reduced. It's after the schools reopened in April/May after the corona closure. They tell us about the 9-year-old from Follo in the Gulf who reads as a priest, but struggles very hard to bring the contents of the text, about the 12-year-old from Eyegarden who is torn big with his tablet, but is struggling, among other things. by breaking social codes and understanding what's happening around her. Someone has got the offer back, some only partially, some not at all. A mother says that special education and school are so incredibly important. That more than 14,000 primary school students have been reduced in special education is nothing but a disaster. It is not consistent with the law that efforts should be made against the most vulnerable children. How could this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e124	Already very soon after we closed the schools, we saw that one of the most negative consequences was that very many of the children and young people who need extra follow-up did not get it. We were clear in the legislation that children who are vulnerable, children who are exposed, are entitled to a physical school offer. I think it's pretty important that you don't just get it digitally, but that you get it physically. We saw after a time that more and more municipalities had to offer a physical school offer. Now I don't think we're going to underestimate the fear that was around a lot of places, that you just didn't dare to take in the students who needed, in fear of infection. Now we know a lot more. We know that it is possible to run school in a safe way, and one of the main reasons for just keeping the schools open, although there are many who are shouting about the opposite, is just considering the very most vulnerable. We have always been clear that special education legislation applies even if we have a state of emergency, and if there is a group that needs to be prioritised every day, it is those kids who need extra follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e131	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e136	The question now is whether we have learned from ours, whether we are taking a grip and adjusting the course now in order to avoid that the schools should not close, so that one avoids making the same mistakes again. In the spring, reports showed that 1,400 specialised educators were used for tasks other than special education. Then it is not surprising when one now sees that 14,000 primary school students have been reduced in special education. The question of parents, students and teachers is whether the new tightening of the coronary intervention will once again reduce special education and whether this time especially vulnerable children will be protected. The state of exemption in school is going to be long, so what new grip is the government council now taking to protect vulnerable children so that we do not make the same mistakes again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e144	I think we just have to admit that the situation in ours was very different than it has been this autumn. The fact that the schools were closed was a decision that was made in a very short time, and there were very few who were able to prepare very much for it. It also means that it took time to get good replacements. I also have to say that in that period, both when the schools were closed and when we reopened with strict measures for the protection of infection, we were probably also a little cautious about having very high expectations for the sector in order to avoid burned-out teachers and worn-out employees in all the schools and kindergartens of the country. The most important thing was to get an offer started. Then this autumn we had high expectations that the offer would be as close as possible to normal. The Training Act offers very few exceptions to the rules applicable to ordinary people, and we have been very clear that special education should be given despite the fact that there are difficult times — one should not use special pedagogues for temporary workers, for example, they should actually be used for what they are meant to be used for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e151	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e156	I think it was understanding that it took time and that not everything was in place in ours. Now has a longer time, and that's good. But more needs to be done to get a grip on someone, especially to protect the most vulnerable children – with what is now revealed. It is, as the Council of State also says, now that one has to plan for a long-term situation, and there has been a discussion about how the spring in school should look. The Swedish Student Organisations have even indicated that the exam in our company must be cancelled. I am not sure whether I agree with that, but has the government now begun to think about how – or whether – the exam will be conducted in a fair and sound way until spring? And what will school life look like in ours?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e163	As I said, we're in a very different situation now than we were in ours. Then a decision was made to cancel the exam for the students who are on the regular offer. Then we actually did it primarily to make it possible to prioritize exams for the private sector, and it was possible to do it. It is also in the process of being implemented in the harvest despite strict measures to protect infection. The fact that we are actually conducting large private examinations for students both in Oslo and in the vicinity, even with very strict measures to prevent infection, shows that it is fully possible to conduct the exam. We've prepared for a lot of different situations, and we're still working on improving those plans. What is our goal is for training to be as normal as possible no matter what the situation is, and it also involves the conduct of examinations. I think it's extra important to do what we can to ensure that exams can be conducted at a time when many people have digital education. Then it's especially important that we make sure that we have equal expectations for the education offer across the country, and I also have good faith that the quality of the digital offer that some students now receive is much higher than in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e170	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e175	In fact, uncertainty and unforeseeability have been created as regards both understanding of rules and economics. The situation is that high school students in municipalities with different levels of infection meet both in school buses, in the same canteen and in the same classroom. Overfilled school buses and common areas make compliance difficult and expensive, even at a yellow level. While budgets are being set up, the framework for 2021 is unclear. Teachers cover sick leave, quarantine, lack of temporary workers, partial distance learning and increased labour pressure, without additional compensation for their efforts. The government says that the municipalities and the counties will have everything covered, but the uncertainty about what and how much is still large. The municipalities, county councils, teachers and students deserve predictability now. Does the Council of State really mean that the schools should be run on duty? And how long are the teachers going to charge for keeping the schools going?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e182	I am very uncertain about what is now perceived as unpredictable. For the time being, the government has set up several tens of billions for both municipalities and county councils to meet additional needs. By the end of this week, we had 7.7 billion. kr to the local government sector, and we are constantly taking care to meet new needs that arise. One consequence we have seen now, for example, because of high unemployment rates and many outsourced, is that more and more adults are applying for adult education. That's why we're going to add 100 million. extra kr, so that the county councils have the opportunity to offer it even more. We have taken care of and made sure to document the kind of expenditure incurred by the municipal sector and the county councils. We've put up with money, and I hope there's no longer anyone in doubt that the government is going to do it, and that so you don't run the schools on fire, but make sure that the schools get the budgets they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e189	Mona Fagerås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e194	45000 children in Norway receive special education. Through a series of articles, VG has told us how many children with the greatest need for organized education in the Korona have lost their teaching. Special educators were assigned to other tasks. Many suggest that the students with the greatest need for organized education were those who suffered most in the time of Korona School. Professor Kari-Anne Næss at the Institute for Special Education at the University of Oslo calls the situation serious and says that nothing indicates that the weakest children will be given back the lost education at a later stage. What assessments were made in the run-up to the Minister’s school closure in view of how children in need of special education should receive training? And how has the minister thought that these children will get back some of what they lost?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e201	The most vulnerable children have been my main concern all along, and it's a topic we've discussed several times in this room as well. We were aware from the very beginning that not everyone received the offer they should have. That is why we also clarified the legislation, which states that it is not possible to cut into special education to compensate for other needs. When we presented the revised national budget, we had our own pot aimed at the vulnerable children, there 170 million. For measures in schools, the figure was set out in a very specific way. It was distributed to all municipalities with objectives of e.g. providing intensive training or deploying more specialised educators — or other necessary measures for children with additional needs. The same millions are now being continued in the budget for next year. It is also fully possible for municipalities to apply for cosmetics if there are extra needs beyond what we have set aside. I have great faith that the municipalities are actually following the laws and regulations we lay down, and that they are also taking this challenge seriously and using the money we have spent to offer to the most vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e210	Mona Fagerås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e216	Unfortunately, it is not new that children needing special education are not given priority in Norwegian school. SV has long been concerned about how students who need special education really do. The children’s ombudsman’s report ‘Without purpose and meaning?’ stated in 2015 that children’s right to good special education is broken daily in Norway. And the offer the students get is too random. It doesn't seem like you're willing to figure out what the children are actually learning. It's the kids who most need a good educator, who should have had the best teachers. Unfortunately, it's not like that in Norwegian school. In the case of SV, it has been important to focus on strengthening schools’ opportunities to provide adapted training and to enhance the special educational skills of schools. All children have the right to a qualified teacher. Unfortunately, we have a teacher crisis now. Does the Minister think there is a need for a national initiative to get more teachers in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e223	There were a lot of questions here at once. The reality description of the children who have special needs, I think we all agree. I think it's a broad recognition that we haven't done enough for those kids who have extra needs. It is also one of the reasons why the government promoted the big message Closely — early efforts, which was addressed here at Stortinget in our country, and which contains a number of important measures to strengthen the provision of just these children. There, we propose, and are in the process of, channelling resources from government agencies to local authorities, to increase the level of competence around. We are now proposing to make stronger demands on those who are going to provide this kind of special education. A few years ago, we also legalised in this hall the right to intensive training for children who have not learned to read or calculate, or the very basic skills. We actually know that. We have received a lot of research that shows that intensive training, especially in reading, works, and that it works if it is introduced early enough. That's why the changes we've been making are very important. Fortunately, the teacher crisis is considerably less now than it was when SV directed the Ministry of Knowledge, because of a massive continuing education gap for Norwegian teachers, but there is no doubt that the job must continue, and I am absolutely sure that we are the best people to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e230	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e235	The council says that she is uncertain about what it is now unforeseeable. I can tell you that. There are still large unpaid coronary bills for 2020 in the municipalities that the government has still not compensated. I have taken a ringing round to several municipalities. Only Oslo misses over 100 million. kr. Other small municipalities are missing between 5, 10, 12 and 15 million. kr. It is the case that the municipal law now applies, and the municipal law obliges municipalities to adjust their budgets – that is, cut when they have no money. That's the real situation in the municipalities now. Nevertheless, the Council of State says that they are not allowed to cut at one, and they are not allowed to cut at the other. When does the proposition that can provide the municipalities with the costs they have had and that the government has promised, but still has not delivered?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e240	I just have to admit that I do not quite have the count on how many propositions have been delivered, where you bring money to municipalities and county councils, but in total we have delivered a little over 30 billion. kr to the local government sector. It's been absolutely necessary -- let me just underline it. It has been important, because many municipalities have had very large expenses. We have also said that there will be more, including: through the effusion of the effusion. What's important is that we also need to spend some time documenting the actual costs that municipalities have. But all the way, both in the revised budget and in several additional proposals, it has, among other things. have been provided with great resources of discretion for the municipalities with the greatest needs. Oslo is undoubtedly one of the municipalities that have had the greatest need. What Oslo has also been very good at, is just to put extra temporary workers in school and keep track of the extra expenses they have had. It's been very important that we can now provide good calculations for what the municipalities actually need. So I want to boast to the Municipality of Oslo, because it's been a very useful basis for us in the job we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e247	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e252	The progress party is proud that we got the babysitting agreement 17 years ago. Cooperation between countries, municipalities and private kindergartens has been a very successful welfare reform, which has contributed to diversity, freedom of choice and almost full child care in the sector. Half of the country's about 300,000 kindergarten children go to private kindergartens. The vast majority of private kindergartens are of high quality and represent a high level of pedagogical and diversity of content. They have consistently lower sick leave and are operated effectively. We're all well-known that they're the best at parental studies. When the State budget was presented, the government proposed a cut in the pension allowance for private kindergartens. I believe that the government with this shot a poison pill into private kindergartens. In a short period of time, the news came that the capital grant was also cut. So in a situation where half of private kindergartens expect deficits by 2020, the government's response is two poison arrows that can lead to bankruptcy across the country, and that tens of thousands of children lose their kindergarten. Private kindergartens tell us about a hard-pressed economy, and in particular that they have been through two heavy years now because of the standard of manning that is about to be introduced. But they've been positive, because they've seen light at the end of the tunnel in 2021. Unfortunately, it turns out that the light is an opposite train. Why has it been so important for the Council of State to bring these cuts into private kindergartens instead of taking a full review of the entire funding scheme for private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e263	The bourgeois parties have agreed to ensure a good funding of private kindergartens. Where several of the red-green parties in many of their annual budgets have provided a flat cut in the sector of the basic grant to kindergartens, we have always been clear that they should be fully funded. What we saw when the Ministry of Knowledge made an overall assessment of the grant system for private kindergartens was that it was an overcompensation in relation to pension expenditure, and that it has sometimes been completely overcompensation for 1 billion. kr, that is, you have paid quite a hundred million more than what you have actually had in pension expenditure. The average of pension expenditure in the calculations then made by the Ministry of Knowledge was 7.7 p.m., while private kindergartens had been compensated for 13 p.m. There were good reasons why compensation was so generous, because there were some kindergartens that had concluded expensive pension agreements, which were important for employees, and we don't want to add up to a very bureaucratic system, where everyone is going to seek compensation for the actual costs. It is also the case that the kindergartens that have higher expenditure than the percentage we have set can apply and will be paid out the extra need they have. That is why – it was the then Minister of Knowledge Jan Tore Sanner – a proposal was put to the hearing to adjust either to 11 p.m. or 9 pst. in 2019. We thought that the risk of putting it as low as 9 pst would be that even more kindergartens would have to apply for direct compensation. So we thought it would be a more unbureaucratic arrangement to set the compensation to 11 pst. With that percentage, approx. 85 pst. by kindergartens to continue to cover their expenses or more than that. The remaining ones, which then have higher pension costs, have an opportunity to apply. Then I also want to add that we realize that for single kindergartens, which do not have a large owner in their backs, it is difficult to take such a conversion quickly. That is why we have provided a screening system, which means that they do not have to take the cut completely before two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e272	For the past few weeks, the Progress Party has traveled around and visited private kindergartens throughout the country, and hundreds of kindergartens have sent in their concerns. The Government's response testifies to a lack of reality of what is being told out there in the sector. No one says that there has been an overall assessment, as the Council of State says. At the same time, the Council of State shows that the pension has been assessed, but it is from 2017. The Council of State also said to Dagbladet on Monday that they have used figures from 2017. PBL, Education Association, Trade Union, Delta – they all warn about these cuts, because they think they're based on out-of-date numbers. Last year, the parties agreed on a new pension agreement, and the cut-off of the State Council has proposed, does not take this into account. Why has the government not used up-to-date figures? Why does she rely on out-of-date information? And what does the Council of State say to the thousands of employees we meet in the sector now, who are concerned that the pension agreement is at risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e281	We have used as many up-to-date figures as possible. We have had close dialogue with the PBL, and we have also had a meeting with the parties and a review of the new system. It will always be difficult to estimate the exact amount of pension expenditure at any time. It depends on a lot of different factors, ranging from interest rate levels to -- yeah, a lot of different factors. We believe that with the assessments we have made, we have made quite well. What's important to emphasize here is that this cut absolutely is not meant to cut the employee's pension. We've been very clear about that. But even the representative himself has in interviews, I have seen, admitting that private kindergartens have been overcompensated in this particular area, and that there has been an overcompensation over several years. I believe private kindergartens should be well funded, but not over-compensated and get more than municipal kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e292	There will be follow-up questions – first Roy Steffensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e298	It is correct that I have stated that I admit that private kindergartens have received too much pension. But we've said that it's because they've gotten too little in other areas, and so it's so important to get a complete review. We have now proposed this in our alternative budget, and we hope that we will be able to see through to the negotiations with the government parties. Finally, I have a question about how the Council of State intends to implement the cut itself if we are not going to get through. Private kindergartens are paid by municipalities. Cut 350 million. So kr has not been earmarked for each kindergarten, but is proposed as a cut in the municipal framework. Not enough that the cut has been done without a complete review, or that the cut is done by using old, out-of-date numbers, but the consequence will also be that 129 municipalities that do not have private kindergartens will experience cutbacks in the economy. Can the Council explain the logic that the municipality of Hjelmeland, which has 294 children in municipal kindergartens, but none in private kindergartens, will be charged NOK 107 000 because the council believes that private kindergartens receive too much pension funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e307	If the representative now wants a thorough review of the funding system for the municipal sector, I think we should ask another state council to come and answer instead of me. However, it is clear that when making changes in funding, some choices have to be made about how to do it – whether to go in specifically and cut actual expenditure, or whether to use the already existing distribution keys, linked to the municipal sector – what kind of child care they have, how many children go in kindergarten. In this situation, the government has chosen to use the usual systems we have, which means that municipalities are compensated according to the number of children who go to kindergarten in that municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e312	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e317	The fact that today there is full babysitting with offers throughout the country is a lot thanks to private kindergartens. A large number of the small, single kindergartens already have red numbers in their accounts. Many people are in danger of going bankrupt. In addition, the situation of the corona has caused large additional costs and additional work for the employees. The situation is too much precarious. The size has asked the government to ensure better pay and pension conditions for the employees of private kindergartens, not worse. Cutbacks in the pension grant, as the government suggests, will dramatically affect small kindergartens and weaken the rights of employees. This could be what pushes many kindergartens outside the stump. What is the government's plan b to ensure that the right to kindergarten is respected if there is a race of bankruptcies in small, often parent-run kindergartens? And what will the Council of State say to those employees who are at risk of losing their jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e322	Private kindergartens have been crucial to ensure full childcare in Norway. That was precisely why it was important to ensure good financial arrangements, both to build new kindergartens and to operate private kindergartens, and we have been concerned that private kindergartens should be fully funded. I am still in the process of having private kindergartens fully financed, but I do not believe that they should be overcompensated for expenses they do not have. If they have pension expenditure of 7-8-9 pst., I think it is right that they receive a grant closer to that than that of 13 pst., as it has done up to now. But I understand, of course, that taking such a conversion is extra demanding for a small, single nursery, and that is exactly why we have protected these kindergartens. They won't have to take it cut this year. They can take half of the cut next year, and that's because they don't have an owner they can use to get help implementing such a cut. It is also important to say that the pension grant is only one component of the financing system of childcare facilities. The most important thing is that the grant is calculated by how much the municipality spends in its kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e331	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e336	There is currently a pensioner in private kindergartens who is receiving heavy sums of pension benefits that never end up in the pension account of employees, i.e. overcompensation. The owners get far more pension than the employees actually get in retirement. There is a run of the employee's pension that Stortinget unfortunately has left behind. The gap between what the owners get and what the employees get was estimated to be 700 million. kr in 2017 – a huge sum – which is money from the community granted for retirement, and which never ends up as a pension with the employees, which the Progress Party seems to be very concerned about. The logical thing is to cover what is the actual pension expenditure of kindergartens, that it is compensated for what is real expenditure and not not not not notional expenditure. Has the government considered such a scheme, where you get compensation for the actual costs and not a penny more than that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e343	Of course, it is an option that has been assessed and that could have been a possible solution – to compensate directly for actual expenditure. The challenge is that it would be a quite bureaucratic system, and it could also give greater unforeseeability, especially on the expenditure side, how much expenditure you have. What we've done is we're making a template that we mean hits better than the template we have today. When we go down from 13 to 11 pst, we mean we hit a lot better. What we're also concerned about is that the kindergartens that have concluded pension agreements before, which may have done so many years ago, who may have had very many employees who have been employed over a long time and who have more expensive pension contracts than that, will of course get direct compensation for the expenses they have. That's the way it's been all along, and it's still going to be. The day-care centres with larger expenditures shall be compensated for so that this plan does not go at the expense of the employees’ terms and conditions. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e352	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e357	We fully agree with the government. What's a little special is that today's system, for which the Progress Party is very much in favour, is an incentive for the owners to keep pension expenditure as low as possible. If you, as the owner of a kindergarten – this is also about large, commercial companies, as we know billionaires are behind – succeed in keeping pensions as low as possible and at the same time get this stencil subsidy for pensions, then the profit, the difference between grants and real costs, will be as much as possible. So today's system stimulates that owners, who are also in many cases billionaires, heavy funds, push as much as possible for the lowest possible pension for the hardworking employees in our kindergartens. Compensating for real expenditure would be possible, but the real costs are reported. That it should be more bureaucratic, I find it hard to believe. It would save the community too much money and would also give an incentive to raise the pension. Does the Council of State see the last point — that it could give a pension promise, rather than the reverse, that today's system would rather reduce the pension rate for employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e364	In theory, the representative may be right, that there are incentives to have the cheapest possible agreements. But what we've seen in practice is that more and more kindergartens, including in the private sector, have gone into much better agreements for their employees. I also want to bring forward the job done by the Landsförbunder Privat Barnehagers in this connection, to contribute to the professionalisation of the sector and to ensure that all employees receive both good pay and working conditions and have common pension agreements. What has been seen in the sector, as representatives have pointed out here in the past quite correctly, is that the expenditure on pensions has gone up, precisely because better agreements have been made, which means that employees in private kindergartens are now getting better pension agreements than they had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e370	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e375	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. The government proposes to reduce the number of legal circles for the districts, from 60 to 23, and for the land change rights, from 34 to 19. In many local views recently, you can write representatives from the Right etc. following: ‘We do not remember a wider disinformation campaign from a Norwegian party than the Central Party is now spreading about the government’s judicial reform. This is starting to look like some political leadership in the United States in the last four years. In a very large number of local authorities in the country, the Centre Party has once again in the last week alarmed voters that local courts should be closed and that ‘thousands’ of district work places disappear. Such a terrifying propaganda must be refuted. [[...]] [[...]] What we in the Central Party have said is that 400-500 jobs will be at stake in the long term if the reform is implemented. What the right should have in addition, is that the arguments we have seen in the Central Party in the debate on the court structure, are based on hearings and letters of readers from many sorren writers and added by a number of courts and lawyers throughout the country. It also applies to the most important thing that now for some funny reason is the heart of the battle, that is, what we in the Center Party say is that it is not possible to merge jurisdictions without bringing down courts. For information, Jusprofessor Eivind Smith of today’s Nations confirms that this is just the case – courts will disappear with this reform. We have recorded ours from sorenists, judges and land change leaders and added to the courts of East Finland, Salten, Senja, Ofoten, Nordfjord, Vesterålen, Namdal, Fosen, Romsdal, Nordmøre, Søre Sunnmøre, Hardanger, Valdres etc. etc. I wonder if Right, and also the Council of State Monica Meland, think that sour writers, judges and lawyers around the country are drifting with disinformation when they tell about the consequences of centralization, and when they say clearly that courts are actually going to be closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e393	I am very happy to have questions about our proposal for changes to the courts, because there is now a debate, there are claims being promoted, and that is a practice which we fortunately very rarely see in Norwegian political debate. That's why this is a very good opportunity to tell you what the government has actually suggested. What we're proposing is a change that doesn't result in any courts being laid down. We do not suggest that anyone lose the job – on the contrary, we propose a historic increase in the number of employees in the courts in next year's budget. So we're proposing fewer leaders, more judges. We suggest that courts with a long trial period can move cases to courts with a short trial period and with a free capacity. This is largely the case with the district courts. So we're suggesting more activity in the smallest courts, not less activity. It means increased legal certainty. We're going to have the trial period down, we're going to have the capacity up. It will be very good for all those who have to use the services of the courts. It means a reform that increases legal certainty, and that will be good for all citizens throughout our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e400	I had believed that a commitment to function in the role of Minister of Justice was that one understood the difference in a court and a court of law. To the nations, Professor of Law at the University of Oslo, Eivind Smith, says that it is wrong that one should uphold all courts with this reform: ‘That’s wrong. You have to lay down a majority of the District Courts and at the same time you have to maintain courts where there are district courts today. There will be far fewer courts, but some of them will have more premises. At least in the beginning,” says Smith, ‘and then time will show how many are left.’ Some large-scale representatives have been eager to secure the reform for the staff of these courts in the future. Why has the government not opted for a minimum crew at these courts if they think that they should maintain manning and existence for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e410	I know well the difference between courts, courts and courts. But since this is now used in an argument to make people think that where trials are being conducted today, we shall no longer do so, I use the word ‘court’. So we're going to have a crew there today. Where legal proceedings are being held today, we are going to have legal proceedings – there it is going to be staff. In our proposal we make it clear that one should have the right to have a case carried out in the nearest possible place where one lives. This has been made clear in comparison with the legal state of the day. This means increased activity, not less activity. Then I can't answer for what Smith thinks about this. What I can answer for is the government's proposal, and the important thing for us is that we get the activity up. We have a number of courts that have a lot of free space. This is primarily a problem for the inhabitants of our country. If one day you're going to deal with a tax case, the next one is a criminal case, you actually need some critical mass of things to do that job well. We are doing that with this new proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e419	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Knutsdatter Strand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e424	Valdre's right of object writes in his reply to the hearing: ‘The fact that there should be obvious differences in quality between large and small courts does not mean that there is any professional evidence to claim.’ The sorenist in the North-Møre District Court points out the same thing, and also writes: ‘There is also no basis for claiming that the applicant audience has less confidence in the proceedings and decisions of those courts.’ North-Gudbrandsdal and South-Gudbrandsdal tracts write: ‘The courts depend on trust and reputation and are best created by closeness to users.’ Valdre's right to change earth writes: Our fundamental position is that there should be no reduction in the number of courts of the land change courts. What basis does the Council of State have for claiming that smaller courts have a lower quality than higher quality, and that confidence is getting better with fewer courts and less closeness?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e449	I have to repeat, we're not going to lay down courts. Where we are conducting legal proceedings today, we will also be conducting legal proceedings in the future. Where you have free capacity, you can deal with several cases. It'll be very good for the quality and vulnerability of the courts. I want to use a picture: if I were to be so unfortunate as to have to undergo the treatment of a brain surgeon, I would prefer that there is one who does it often, not one who does it sometimes. That's the whole point: you get the quality up, you get the process time down. All courts are maintained. So we're talking about fewer leaders, more judges, more activity. It will be very good for the inhabitants, and it would be very good for our districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e456	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e461	It's usually cool to make a lot of terms, but there can only be one thing right in each court. The courts therefore become branches under that jurisdiction. That means that 37 District Courts and 15 Land Change Rights are closed down as seagoing courts. That is a fact the Council of State must actually agree with. The same applies to the fact that the requirement for a minimum crew in the courts has been removed from the law. So Namdal District Court won't stand as its own court of law. This also applies to very many others. The employees of Namdal District Court are therefore very concerned, naturally enough. They say that for them, this means that they're closed, and it's hard to see how the people of Namdalen in the future are going to be guaranteed just as good court services as they are today. Does the Council of State at all understand the concerns of many, many hundreds of employees in this matter, or is this just a game of concept?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e468	I'm very familiar with the Central Party's change allergy, but what you're inviting to do here is a game of words. I don't think that's important. What matters to people is that the court should be where the court is today. The crew shall be at the location of the crew today. Things are to be held where they are today. Then it is absolutely right that we have not proposed – and it was discussed in the hearing – that we should have a minimum crew. It was simply the fear that a minimum crew would often be perceived to be a maximum crew. We don't want to. We want to get the activity in those courts that have free capacity, and it has a lot of courts. They have 10 pst. And they have up to 50 pst. available capacity. I do not understand that one does not think it is a problem, that one has to be happy about increased activity: reducing the length of proceedings in the main courts and getting the proceedings up to the small ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e476	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e481	One might get a little confused about this with minimum crew and crew. For this reason, I would just like to ask if the Council of State agrees that as long as there is no requirement for staffing in the proposition, the sorenprinter can, for example, in new Telemark legal circles, decide that the crew and working day shall be the Ski, not the Notodden and the White Sea. The proposition says that the workplace is the legal circuit. That's why very many of these questions, and that's also why it would be important at least to have staffing requirements. If the Council of State agrees that such a proposition is now in place, will it be up to the author to decide where people are going to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e486	I understand the questions, but I don't agree with the claim that you can almost do what you want in a court of law. It's actually the way we've been very clear that all the courts are going to be manned. And the fact that you have the right to deal with your case in your nearest court ensures activity, and activity ensures staffing. We've also been very clear that all of the courts have to be equal. So you can't make one court of law to a main court of law. Then we're completely relaxed about whether the Storting wants to go in and secure this further through its treatment, but we've done this because we don't want a minimum crew to be a maximum crew. We want equal courts. This means, for example: that the sorenprinter in a legal circuit must move around in the legal circuit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e493	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e498	I thank you for your answer. This means that that concern is most real when it comes to manning. The Court of Justice does not consist only of judges. They consist of important case handlers, support staff throughout the country who currently have their job either on the Notodden or in White Seaside. When it comes to flexibility, the Labour Party has called for us to look at changes in the law that address the vulnerabilities that we know are there, without making structural changes. When it comes to quality, and the Minister of Justice starts talking about brain surgery, there's something special, because we don't talk about specialists here. We're talking about generalists, judges all over the country. Why is it not relevant for the Minister of Justice to consider taking action in the law that gives us the flexibility we need to move judges and cases without altering the judicial system, which leads to a series of independent courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e511	That's just a change in the law we've proposed. What the Labour Party seems to be concerned about is to have as many leaders as possible in the Court of Justice. I'm occupied with the most possible judges in the court. I am concerned that people are going to deal with their affairs, and that it is going to be done in a proper way. When I used the picture with a brain surgeon, I understand that it seems a little far away. The only point is that these generalists who are going to deal with a criminal case one day, a tax case the next and a child distribution case the third, have to have a certain critical mass to do that job well. Then I would like those who deal with my child-sharing case, my criminal case, to actually have experience in doing so. When we know that some courts, especially the smallest, don't use their capacity – they go for only half the machine, and I can name them – we want to get the activity up, bring down the trial period and make them more robust in terms of both employees and judges. Then it is absolutely right that you have to have case handlers and support staff in all courts. That is what this matter should ensure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e518	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e523	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Now it is almost six months since the government finally agreed that we should pick up 50 asylum seekers from Greece. It had to be a disaster, but a decision was made. But nothing happens. After the fire in Moria, a new camp was established on Lésvos – Kara Tepe. According to the organization that works there, it is perhaps even worse than the one that was before. It is exposed to weather and wind. For 8,600 people living there, there are only seven water points, no showers and 300 toilets. You cannot even leave the camp to seek a doctor without permission. Norway has rightly been criticized, including by the UNHCR, for our passive attitude, the weak contribution and the narrow criteria used. Can the Council of State now inform the Storting about the concrete status of at least these 50 asylum seekers from Greece? Why does this process take so long when the disaster is so terrible on the ground in Greece? The situation there is, of course, also marked by the coronary apathy and that there is no possibility in the camps to isolate themselves, to take the precautions to protect themselves from infection. Where does the government actually stand, and does the government have any priority on this issue now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e532	Firstly, I agree with the description that the conditions in Moria, but also in all the world's refugee camps, are terrible. That is why it is important that we come from Norway. That is why we are one of the countries that provides the most assistance, and we are one of the countries that receives the most quota refugees. That's precisely because the situation is so difficult. I asked for an update yesterday, because I expected that this question might come today. Then the answer is that it's not on us. Yes, we give priority to the work. I can assure you. Our authorities are in contact with the Greek authorities, and we have made it clear our desire to bring home 50 refugees from Moria, but it is demanding for Greek authorities, and we are totally dependent on cooperating with them. They have now been primarily concerned with moving people from Moria to the new camp. We're doing what we can, but right now it's demanding. Of course, it is also due to closed borders in many places in the world and in Europe that make it difficult to move people. As I said, we're dependent on getting to. We can't just pick people up. We have to respect the laws, regulations and priorities of Greece, and that has been difficult, but we do what we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e539	I hear the council says it's not on us, but I think it is. Other countries are able to pick up. The relocalisation scheme was initially aimed at lone minor asylum seekers and sick children and their core families, when these were considered to have the greatest need. However, Norway has chosen to ignore this and has used narrow criteria — there should be Syrian families of children to be grouped and who should have a high probability of staying. One was also so late in the track that this is almost impossible to figure out in this disastrous situation that one also has in Greece now. Will the government change these narrow criteria, making it possible to contribute as other countries do?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e544	There's a bunch of statements coming up here. Just let me say first that I've asked other countries now things to pick up refugees. I have not received a positive answer to that. So this is difficult not just for Norway, it is difficult for all countries that have agreed to relocate. This is because the systems in Greece are demanding, and they are working to put this in place for asylum seekers, among other things. We didn't want to bring lonely children first. Lone children are mainly boys from Afghanistan who will not be entitled to permanent residence in Norway. We have wanted to pick up people who can be settled, who can be integrated, and who we can accept in the municipalities in Norway. So when we focus on vulnerable families, we don't think it's slimy; the brothers of those in refugee camps are vulnerable families. That's what we've pointed out, because we want people who can most likely get a residence permit to live, can be integrated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e552	There will be follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e557	The government's criteria are far narrower than that. There should be Syrian families of children together, and that makes this difficult. Everyone knows that families are split in flight and when there is war. So here it's completely possible to expand it to, for example. families with children in general. I also believe that the Council of State should at least know that of those who now come to Norway and have applied for asylum, 74 are in favour. have been detained, including very many of those from Afghanistan. So the claim that these Afghan men do not have asylum grounds like this without further ado does not exist. But the Council of State did not answer my question. If there is a problem with the criteria set up by Norway, and there are others who are vulnerable, as the Council of State just says, other families with children, for example. with sick children, or single mothers with children, is the government willing to change the criteria so that it is at least possible to relocate the 50 that the government has adopted this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e564	Lone mothers with children are vulnerable families. Lonely with sick children are vulnerable families. So we accept vulnerable families, that's what we've said. And we haven't received a single request that we should change this device. That's not the problem. That's the practical work and the formalities we have to do with Greece. I understand that Andersen thinks this sounds very easy, but for those who do the job in the practical life out there, it's not that easy. But we're going to do what we can to pick up the 50 we've said, people we hope will get permanent residence, that can be integrated, and that we must not give temporary residence and thus give no future other than that they should return to a country they have fled from.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e569	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e574	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. For the Labour Party, it is important that criminal gangs and networks do not evolve and create insecurity in the community of people, and appear as criminal imagery with a lot of money. Then it's entirely up to you to go for the money and the values. Crime shouldn't pay off, and here, the right-wing government, including the Progress Party, has done little good. Few repeaters have been taken, values have been reduced, few cases have been brought before the court, which was recently pointed to by the Riksadvokaten, the Oslo Police District, the East Police District and the Police Directorate. The Labour Party has long argued that there is a need for a stronger effort against recriminal crime and criminal networks, and we have therefore made a number of proposals over the last few years that have been voted down, all together, by the Right Party and by the Progress Party. I think it's going to be harder than what might appear to be cosmetic grips, which the Minister of Justice is talking about in the evening post on Monday. I am a little surprised that the Council of State does not indicate that there is today an increased access to detention, for which the Labour Party has called for increased use for several years. This, in addition to putting in place mechanisms for civil custody, we know that we want to make it easier to seize values and money. My question is, what is the reason for the government's summering on these issues, a constant resistance to all proposals, whether they are good or not, from the opposition? And does the Council of State think that cosmetic clarifications in the penal code, which underlines today's legal status, are what is going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e585	We fully agree that repeat crime – although fortunately there is no major problem in Norway – and all types of criminal gang activity are a problem. It has no place in our society. It contributes to insecurity, it contributes to crime, it is recruitment arenas for not least young people, and therefore, unlike those before us, this government has, in fact, had an active action plan, an active attitude towards this, linked to the police's work of both prevention and detection. It is true that now, thanks to the police reform, all police districts have preventive units. It's very important, because we have to start with prevention. All the activity, the thread activity, we can prevent, will be a good thing, not least to the young. It is now working actively — prevention is the primary strategy. In addition to strengthening resources in all police districts with economics and with personnel, we have had our own efforts, but they come to the top of the budgets that have been adopted every year since 2013. In 2019, we stepped up efforts on the basis of the very action plan that was adopted. A 50-million-dollar decision was made. SEK extra, 24 million. DK to the police – 8 of them to strengthen Økokrim and Kripos, 16 to the Oslo Police, among others. Project November – 16 million. DKK to the conflict councils and 10 million. kr for the protection of children. And then we're going to spend 37 million dollars. This is because it is being combated and prevented in cooperation with others – it is not the police alone who are working on this. So I mean, it's doing a very important job. Then it is that, quite correctly, we have restored the Criminal Felony Council for advice on new laws, new rules, that can prevent and detect this. That's what we've got, among other things. on the matter referred to by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e596	The long tangling of various brawl measures led the Council of State not to respond to my question, because it was about the access that one today has in the penal code to extended detention. It is there today, and it should not be believed in a way when you read the case with the Council of State in the Evening Post on Monday. But she can have the opportunity to answer that, so far, next time. Another suggestion we have made is that we must also be able to take the values of those who passively help criminals to hide values: cars, apartments, etc. It may not be punishable to passively help criminals hide values. That is why we have proposed to introduce a duty to be vigilant in criminal law, so that criminal liability is given. This is where the Right Party and the Advance Party have voted us down. Then my question is: does the Council of State think that passive help to hide criminal values should not be punished, or does the Council of State think that this is not a big enough problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e605	I'm looking for new tools, new methods to combat this type of crime, and when the Workers' Party is now activating in the field, I'm very happy about that. Then we would like to discuss new proposals. That's right, as the representative says, today we have rules related to withdrawal. When we asked the Criminal Council, which is composed of highly competent theorists and practitioners, for an assessment, it was just to see if today's rules are good enough. Because it is not that we sit and decide which rules to use, how to do it, and how to implement it. That's what the police do, in the practical everyday life. The answer we received from the Sanctions Council was that the rules work well on the way. We can still do a job of getting these used in the police districts, and that's what's going on. It was because it was a hole related to the fact that we know that the proceeds come from crime, but not from exactly what action. That hole is what we're going to close here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e614	There will be follow-up questions – first Lene Wagslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e619	I can understand that Malta does not think of the proposals we made in 2018, because whoever was Minister of Justice at the time, it is really not that good to come up with. But we are making many proposals in 2018, in the budget in 2019, last year, and will also do so this year. These are not new proposals either. These are the proposals we have had – new law on detention bans, extending youth units, strengthening and improving juvenile punishment, putting in place exit programmes, highlighting the possibilities of criminal law to extend access to detention, bringing in civil law detention. The list is long and the resistance is large. It was tuned down every once in a while. So these aren't new ideas. It is nice if the Council of State wants to assess it now, when the Council of State is open to empty of ideas itself. Does that mean that the right hand side will re-examine these proposals that the Labour Party has proposed a series of times in the last three years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e624	I'm always open to listening to suggestions when it comes to combating crime, detecting crime and preventing crime, especially among young people, and especially among gangs that are are arenas for recruiting young people. We all have a responsibility for that. So what we've done is we've strengthened the resources, we've strengthened the methods, we've strengthened the tools. And what we have at the hearing now is a withdrawal where you know that the proceeds come from crime, but you can't say exactly what action. That's what we have at the hearing right now, and I hope that's what we're going to adopt. In addition, we have sent to the hearing a proposal to make it criminal to participate in or recruit for gangs. There's also a new bill that we hope to get to the Bighold, precisely because we have to find new ways to keep people from getting involved in criminal gangs or getting involved in gangs all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e638	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e643	Both former Minister of Justice Kalldmyr and Justice Peter Frölich have said quite a few times that this government should put in place a system of civil custody. We know that it could make it even easier than the extended access provided by the penal code today, where there is a reversal of the burden of proof. Will the government – at this slow pace – reach the Stortinget, the Minister of Justice, with any suggestions before we leave each other in June? Will there then be proposals that will deliver on the promise to do this with civil law withdrawal, or will it be with the promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e650	I do not know the word ‘stupid’ quite again in, not on my own behalf, but at least not on behalf of all employees in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, who have worked hard this year as well – extra hard, I would say. But it's absolutely right that we also consider civil law withdrawal. It has some legal aspects, simply because there is a different burden of proof that must be the basis for the incorporation into civil matters than in criminal matters, and we must continue to safeguard the legal certainty, opposition, etc. But that's some of what we're looking at, just because we see that someone who hasn't necessarily been taken for crime has values that obviously can't be justified in the job you don't have. So I don't disagree with the approximation, but it requires us to look pretty carefully at it, and we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e659	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e664	I note that the Labour Party is committed to making proposals to combat recriminalism. It is probably proposals that belong today to the Central Party of Jan Bøhler, but it is good that the Workers' Party also promotes them again. It is important that we put in place concrete, good measures to combat recriminalism, fight crime among young people, and then we need effective instruments. We've been into someone here. We have a long list that is being discussed in the committee, for which we hope we will be able to get a pass, preferably together with the government parties. I believe that we can come together, at least if we are going to take the debate seriously. One of the most important things if we are to stop this type of crime is to establish clear consequences of committing crime. The previous government, the Stoltenberg government, effectively removed the possibility of using prison for people under 18 who commit crime, and it is almost impossible to deal with those who are under the criminal detainee. Will the Council of States take action to put in place a stronger response to the young people who commit crime and who are now almost slapping their shoulders, and are it right out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e673	The government parties have good experience in cooperating with the Progress Party in this field, both inside and outside government, so I hope we will continue with that. Then we've got our seats, the time the Progress Party put in government, more prison places for young people. We now have consultations on proposals for changes to the Youth Penalty. Among other things, it is today that one cannot combine prison with youth. We think we need more flexibility, just to reach those who commit serious crime, but who we need to help in ways other than through punishment. You need education, you need work, you need psychosocial follow-up -- there might be a lot of things. So we're tightening up the coordination of resources, so that they find each other in a different way than by volunteering. We are going to spend less time negotiating with young people, but rather take action, which of course can be blamed, and we are also looking at greater flexibility in the design of the punishment. But it won't pay to commit crime, and that signal must be very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e680	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e685	I hope we get even clearer and better action in place. It is a reality that we have seen a development that is negative, and we are not in the vicinity, fortunately, of being there as our neighbouring country Sweden is, but we all agree – and I hope so – that we should never get into the situation in which our Swedish neighbouring country has come. This development must then be stopped early, through clear measures, through the prioritisation of the police. I am very pleased that we got a majority together with the government parties to strengthen the fight against recriminalism in the revised national budget. Now we have also made proposals in our alternative state budget to strengthen the police by 100 million. kr for the purpose of combating loop crime. It's vital. In the middle of it we know that this is a particular problem in Oslo east. There we have the reality that two police stations, Manglerud and Stovner, need to be merged into one station. The question is: does the Council of State think that there is a wise way to build the police force needed in this area, to combat recriminalism and also to deal with the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e692	In that case, I have full confidence that the police have made a thorough assessment. It's not where the police have office facilities, which tell us something about what kind of job they do, that's the job they do out there among people. It is in order to strengthen the job in Oslo East that you want a common unit and work to get it in place. It is important that the police are present, but one of the offices mentioned, Manglerud, is not even open to visitors. This is office space more than where policemen do a job. It's done outside among people. We've strengthened the Oslo Police. It's important because they have to work on this in a completely different way than some other police districts do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e699	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e704	The district minister will also be given the opportunity to participate in the Questionnaire today. An analysis from October shows that Norwegian travel companies have lost over 41 billion dollars. kr from January until August 2020 as a result of the coronary crisis. Unlike many other industries, travel life is throughout Norway. It is the local travel businesses that keep municipalities alive. One of the trees in travel life is less than 24 years old, and four out of ten have a foreign background. It makes travel life a youth and integration business, which Norway needs at a time when many are out of work — and more are. The right-wing government's proposal to double the travel income in the middle of a crisis is not well-founded. The government's lack of will punishes one of the industries that really employs many. That's bad policy. Norwegian travel has a diversity of many of our closest competitors are missing. This diversity is one of Norway’s advantages, but is now threatened by the increase in VAT proposed by the government in the government budget for next year — in the midst of a crisis. On the way into the Christmas and winter season, there are high bankruptcy fears and leavencies in the travel industry. The share that has completed redundancies, increases, and there are many plans for redundancies and further lay-offs. The growth of moms will hit the districts hardest and thus affect the entire Norwegian tourism industry, which employs more than 150 000 people. The district minister is responsible for coordinating the government's district policy. A strong rise in new year travel income will be devastating for a district industry such as travel. My question will then be: what has the district minister done to avoid double VAT on travel and thus hit jobs in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e718	First, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the representative wants to pay attention to the challenges facing the region's travel life. We know that before the pandemic broke us out, the travel life went, and also the business world for the rest, in the districts well. We saw that many jobs were created in the districts, and especially related to travel life. Like all other industries now, travel life is in a very difficult situation. It is difficult to get income when no one comes and pays for the beds you can lie in, the excursions you can go on, or to go out to eat. This is why the restaurant industry, the hotel industry and the transport industry face enormous challenges, simply because they are not guests – no tourists. That is why I am very pleased that the government has put in place together with the Stortinget related to all the crisis packages – at the latest yesterday, when the government presented a crisis package of 17.7 billion. kr, where the majority go to help the district travel life, together with the rest of the travel life. The reason why lower VAT would not be the best means of helping the enterprises that are struggling under the pandemic is that, in any case, companies do not have to pay VAT if they do not have income. It's like a hotel manager said: It doesn't help to pay less VAT if we don't have guests. That's why we contribute with liquidity, we contribute with loans and other possible compensation schemes for the tourism industry, which is in a terribly difficult situation. At the same time, we also contribute to the further development of travel, change, professionalise, become more powerful, so that when we have a vaccine in place and the pandemic is over, Norway will be ready to accept many of the world's tourists.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e725	For many people in the travel industry, it may seem more like we have a highway robber than we have a district minister. When many jobs in the tourism industry in the districts are at risk of disappearing, the answer we now get is perceived as a lack of willingness to do something for the industry that employs more than 150,000 people. It's a huge discharge. So instead of going into the discussion about how a price-sensitive industry is affected by increases in taxes, we want to double the VAT rate and implement the fare from the New Year. So travel life is hit hard in an already very demanding situation. What we know is that there's lost tens of billions of dollars, there's lost a lot of jobs, and many are outsourced, cancelled, or going to be. Not least do other industries deliver to travel life. Does the district minister think she is doing enough to save the tens of thousands of jobs in the tourism industry that are so important to Norwegian districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e734	Now the president did not hear about the representative characterizing the district minister. I just want to remind you that we don't allow characteristics in the staging room.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e739	One of the industries for which the government has spent the most time finding solutions is the tourism industry – precisely because the borders have been closed. The tourists and guests do not come in and can avail themselves of the offer, and the box is also empty. We're in a very close dialogue with the travel operators. We're out there meeting them, we're meeting with the organizations, and we're busy putting in the measures that work. The travel industry does not primarily demand lower VAT, because lower VAT will help those who are not the most affected by the coronary apathy. Lower VAT is not the best way to help travel in the situation they face. Nor is it the air passenger charge, because when seven out of ten passengers are gone, it does not help much. We have been busy delivering the travel industry demand. It is a compensation mechanism, and there are also measures for conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e748	There will be follow-up questions – first Åsunn Lyngedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e753	In North Norway and the West, many of our travel businesses are seasonal. Many have most of their income in the summer and the revenue from that season covers fixed expenditure throughout the year. These companies do not have a monthly turnover drop and will not receive assistance in winter with fixed costs from the scheme presented by the government yesterday. That arrangement will also be concluded in February. The government made a scheme for the seasonal businesses. If you could refer to sales cases in your season, you would have to cover a share of fixed expenditure each month. But that arrangement was reserved only for those who were operating outdoors. The plumbing facilities in Lofoten have not been helped as seasonal farms. The Workers' Party proposed that they be defined as seasonal holdings in June. It was voted down by the government parties. Maybe some of them got help with 25 pst. of its fixed expenditure in June and August, but then it stopped. Does the district minister have any advice for these companies that have little left of equity, but do you have a roof over the head?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e762	As I said, the government is very concerned about the tourism industry, because it is a fragmented industry with many small players all around the country. We've been working on setting up the measures so that they work for the diversity of travel life actors out there. That's why we're also introducing a compensation scheme of 1 billion. kr for high-trafficking travel businesses, both in order to avoid bankruptcy and to ensure a certain level of activity. Just before the summer, we came directly to the municipalities, to a nutrition fund of 600 million. NOK that would help the seasonal companies mentioned by the representative, e.g. the winter destinations that broke very much in winter and beyond the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e769	Åsunn Lyngedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e774	So none of the packages help the seasonal businesses now. Others who are not assisted by government crisis packages are the destination companies. Visit Narvik, Visit Bodø, Destination Lofoten and not least Visit Svalbard are close to the small travel businesses and are the first companies to contact when they need advice, and they need it now. They need to understand an abundance of press releases and a number of new short-term crisis packages that they need to throw around to participate in. Conversion funds, bio-resources and emergency aid must be applied for, and they themselves are often permitted. Then it is my experience that the destination companies are crucial, and they are present in the country, they understand the arrangements, and they can advise desperate business owners and employees. They live among others. of the contributions of the holdings, and they are now gone. They have not received any attention from the government in any of the crisis packages, nor in it from yesterday. What do the government and the minister think about the situation of the destination companies, which is a crucial infrastructure for the tourism industry when we can all travel again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e783	We are concerned about the destinations, and I have a very good dialogue with several of them. They are not dependent on guests; they are sitting in an office and facilitating and contributing to the companies. We are looking to help those who lose their entire income because no one comes and uses their offer. It is the rudders, it is the hotels, it is the small operators in Finnmark or Troms that facilitate excursions, and that is why the compensation scheme should help them. That's also why we're adding 250 million. NOK of the package of nearly 18 billion. kr that the government delivered yesterday to business development for tourism businesses. We're busy putting in measures that help them in the phase that's now, when there's no activity, when there's no guests, while we want to help them even when we're out of the pandemic, to be a powerful travel industry that can compete with other countries we compare with, to receive as many tourists as possible again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e790	Helge André Njåstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e796	Travel life is, as many have been in the past, a very important industry for District Norway. I noticed that the Council of State told me that the government had delivered on the travel life demand. And then there's clearly a difference between what travel life demands of us, and what they demand from the government, because what they say to us, is that one has to see the whole chain in context. Destination company, which is important to sell Norway when the vaccine is hopefully in place soon, the travel guarantee fund, which is important for those who make package travel – there are many contributions we have received from the government that the government does not provide, and that is important. I wonder if it is such that the travel life has not reached with that pardon, since the minister says that she delivers on what they demand, or whether it is such that the minister has not had a say in the government? Because I believe that travel life has been as clear to the district minister as to the opposition party that the tourism industry needs more help than they have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e803	We're in a very difficult time. Now, I think that's the eighth crisis package, as far as I remember, which we have put before the Storting, with compensation schemes, with measures, with funds for business conversion. We also brought a very powerful package yesterday. It is designed to help the entire breadth of Norwegian business, but also travel life, for which we have also found good arrangements in various sessions with Stortinget. I am not saying that we have met all that travel industry demand. We can't satisfy all the businesses or businesses that are asking for, but we've prioritised what we think is the most important thing to do right now. Then we are very, very aware that travel life is one of the industries and industries that are struggling the most, because they have lost their entire customer base. That's why the government is busy getting rid of the infection now and making sure that we hopefully manage to get a vaccine tested, so that the guests can come back, and the travel life can start working again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e808	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e822	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, by Mr Eigil Knutsen to the Minister for Finance, has been withdrawn. Question 8, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister for Development, is postponed until the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e840	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e848	‘The expert group led by Steinar Holden proposed an adjusted compensation scheme that included wage costs, in order to strengthen incentives to keep people in work while the infectious diseases measures were extensive. The government has now had many months to plan a new scheme, which is not yet in place, but which does not follow up the proposal of the expert group. Why has the government not chosen to follow up the proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e855	The compensation scheme to which the representative Aasrud refers was introduced in April and terminated as a broad scheme in August following a decision by the Stortinget. The expert group led by Professor Steinar Holden expressed in its report that the compensation scheme appeared to be consistent with the objective of reducing unnecessary bankruptcies. The expert group also noted that trade-based compensation schemes provide unfortunate incentives because they do not stimulate migration and growth. The inclusion of compensation of employees in the general compensation scheme was discussed in Prop. 127 S for 2019-2020, presented on 29 May. The proposal to the expert group presented several challenges, both for the calculation model of the scheme and for how compensation of employees should be calculated and covered under the scheme. The scheme was based on the objective and clearly defined nature of the unavoidable costs covered by the scheme. If the plan were to include compensation of employees, there had to be clear boundaries against abuse. For example, it had to be ensured that the company itself could not raise the wage costs through increased management salaries or other temporary salary increases not linked to the operation. In addition, it had to be assessed whether different salary levels should be covered, how self-employed persons should be treated and how holiday pay should be included. My assessment was – and is – that it would significantly complicate the scheme, make work on the scheme even more complicated and possibly delayed, and increase the risk of abuse. The government therefore worked closely with the parties to find an alternative model, and on the basis of this, we proposed a payroll scheme to take back permanent employees in employment, a scheme to which both the NHO and the LO joined. The scheme may help to provide additional security for enterprises that are uncertain about their readiness to take back posted employees. The compensation scheme is an action promoting activity rather than inaction, which was also behind the Holden Group’s proposal to include remuneration in the compensation scheme. The scheme was initially launched for July and August and is now extended to October, November and December. So far, about 800 companies have received support in July and 1,200 in August to take the posted employees back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e872	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that assessments have been made of the conclusions of the Holden Committee and believe that the schemes launched in ours are still the ones that should apply, that there are no new strategies, even though it has now been quite a long time. In the class struggle on 8 May, it was written: «Husleie swallows the crisis blow to business». Why has the Council of State not wanted to make any adjustments to improve burden-sharing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e879	It is my responsibility to help us get schemes that work for business and businesses. We've got an innumerable want of what's going on in this period. My assessment was – and is – that the more complicated such schemes are, the more delays are, the more vulnerable it is, and the more difficult it is to achieve. I understand very well that you want a fine-looking system that captures all the eventualities, but be sure that it would have led to the system being much more complicated and more delayed. We know that it's urgent to get arrangements in place. That is why we now have the outline of a new system, which was presented yesterday, and which is essentially what has been the most important requirement of the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e886	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e891	While it is understandable that the Council of State is concerned with enterprises and businesses, it is also important to be concerned with the employees affected in order to obtain a necessary and good burden-sharing. Several have referred to travel life here now in the ordinary Questionnaire. My question concerns all the employees who have been on leave for a long time and who may have the opportunity to return to work in the next six months. Why does the Council of State not think it is right that they get holiday money, so that they can spend their holiday money, among other things. to keep the travel life going? That would be a good proposal to change the burden-sharing between those affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e898	Now we move with respect to report quite far away from the main question. The main question concerned the compensation scheme and a pay element in it. Now we're on holiday money, which is a fairly different question. The representative knows that there is a disagreement between the Workers' Party and the Government's parties. We have taken a number of measures throughout the crisis because we know that a crisis like this is going on. I'm worried that a crisis like this creates more inequality. This is why we have taken action, including: By extending an increased rate of daily pay, we have therefore taken action to enable those who are on leave or on leave to take up education while unemployed, and therefore we work every day to secure jobs. We were up to 300,000 registered unemployed, now we're at about 100,000. It's too high, but it's an illustration that the government works every day to secure jobs – because it's important for both employees and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e908	‘In the context of the debate on beliefs, the Stortinget adopted the following opinion: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up clear guidelines on how vulnerable children and young people, addicts, disabled people, people with severe mental illness and other vulnerable groups should be protected by a possible new closure’. How will the Council of State ensure that society preserves vulnerable groups better than we did when we were last shut down?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e915	With increasing public infection, intervention has been taken to prevent the spread of the corona virus, but also many measures to maintain the provision of services to vulnerable and vulnerable groups. It is important that the measures we are now taking to slow down and avoid infection do not further exacerbate the situation in life to already vulnerable people. The government has therefore asked the Health Directorate to update the professional advice for healthcare to ensure that the services provide vulnerable groups under the pandemic. The Directorate shall consider how any new action could help these groups. Guidance material shall also be developed to ensure predictability, access to and individual planning of necessary services for home residents and their dependants. The objective is predictability of what will happen in the different phases of a shut-down. When society closed down in March, the government set up a working group with several underlying agencies. The group follows the service provision of vulnerable children and young people and acquires knowledge and experience of their life situation during the pandemic. Children of low-income families and children who are exposed to care failure are included in this work. We have strongly encouraged municipalities to pay particular attention to vulnerable children and families with special needs. We have also asked them to assess the increased use of outreach activities. Several municipalities use health care professionals in infection tracking work. It shouldn't be like that. I have stressed on several occasions that health care professionals should not be used for this, and the rapporteurs have received letters from me and the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on this. Children and young people need health care — especially at these times. I have therefore encouraged the municipalities to train professional groups other than health care professionals to assist with testing and detection of infection. Where the municipalities consider redeploying personnel and implementing infectious diseases control measures that go beyond the official infectious disease control councils, the need for such measures shall be assessed in particular. This clarified the Health Directorate in letters to the municipalities and health regions already in spring. The coronary apathy affects us all, and we have to take care of each other. The Health Directorate has now been given the task of assessing the need for a national campaign on safe social contacts to mitigate the negative effects of social isolation. Good advice on how each individual citizen can take care of his or her own mental health when society shuts down can be relevant in such a campaign. In addition, this week it became known that the government in the supplementary number of the State budget for 2021 further reinforces the economic efforts in these areas to improve it beyond what is already available in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e932	I thank you for the answer, and I see the dilemma of introducing strict enough measures to make them effective, while at the same time being able to protect the most vulnerable groups. One of the groups that VG could reveal had received very intrusive measures during the last shutdown was mentally retarded, where over 2,400 appeared to have almost stopped visiting their own home in the municipality. I don't think it's because of the bad will of the municipalities, but a lack of certainty about how the legislation was to be practised, with the consequences it has had for the quality of life of the mentally retarded. Has the Minister of Health now taken action to ensure that such a closure to mentally retarded and other groups living in their own housing, but closely following the municipalities, will not happen again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e937	Yes, this was clearly already in the circular that was sent out from the directorate in March, after the shutdown, but was further prepared in a circular that came in April. I believe it is a great advantage that there has been so much public attention to this. I think it's now very clear to everyone that municipalities don't have a legal basis to make the kind of regulation that they did here. Whether they did it as a decision or introduced it more informally, it is now clear. It is also clear to the statesmen who are to control this. It is a great advantage that VG revealed it and got it so high on the agenda, because it helps to get attention around what the directorate followed up already in April, but where we see that compliance has not been good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e942	All of them, most of us have a strong understanding that we now need strict rules to prevent too close contact with too many people, but it's also that loneliness can take life. We go darker times in meetings, literally, and mental health recently reported a triple in number of requests. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Health said in his first reply that a campaign for safe social contact is now being evaluated, because not everyone who is vulnerable is registered with the public as a vulnerable group. Almost 40 pst. the private households in Norway today consist of one person, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics. When the authorities then tighten up very much on the possibilities of meeting others, this can hit those who live alone, extra heavy. How will the Minister of Health ensure that the advice and instructions now introduced in connection with the corona virus do not cause people’s mental health to go down, especially for those who are dependent on moving outside their home in order to meet other people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e949	Once again, the most important thing we do is, in fact, the measures against the spread of infection, for many of those who are vulnerable, also have underlying chronic diseases, and if there is a general, high spread of infection in society, many of them, regardless of what advice we give, will be anxious to go out. Therefore, this is important — at the bottom of it — to think that the best thing we do for everyone is to control the spread of infection. Then we have to assume that part of the advice and the rules we give also have negative sides. We're trying to compensate for that. When, for example, Now says that one should essentially be at home and stay with his household, the Institute of Public Health has said very clearly that if one is alone in his household and does not live with others, one can choose from a few very few friends with whom one can be closer, precisely because one emphasizes the importance of having close social contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e959	‘Health South-East plans for the centralisation and closure of hospitals in Hedmark and Oppland. Many are concerned that increased travel distances will weaken their security and preparedness if you go in to build one major hospital and lay down several local hospitals, such as Elverum or Lillehammer. Will the Council assess the changes in hospital structure in the light of the coronary apathy, in particular as regards the experience with the consequences of bringing together many people and the benefits of having hospital preparedness and feeding departments spread across several units?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e966	First, I would like to stress that I am pleased that there is very broad political support in the Inland to what is the chosen main model, namely to have a larger emergency hospital at Mjøsbrua and to keep two of the existing hospitals. I feel that there is a broad political consensus at local level about such a main model. The Coronapandemy has shown that we need new modern hospitals. This also applies to the Inland, where there is also a need for a more forward-looking hospital structure. Today, none of the hospitals in the interior have a complete range of interdisciplinary diagnostics and treatment. The result is that patients themselves have to travel or transport between different hospitals in order to have examinations and treatment carried out. This is not a good solution. The new Mjøssjukehuset becomes a large emergency hospital where specialised functions in somatic matters, mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment are grouped together in one place. The measles hospital shall provide a complete range of services where several patients can be completed for acute conditions and more unexplained diagnosis. A greater degree of assembly at the Mjøssykhuset facilitates more decentralised services in the region. Providing more services where people live is a goal for the new structure of the Inland. Today's three local medical centres are to be further developed and new local medical centres are to be assessed. In addition, the emergency medical chain needs to be developed. The ambulance service is no longer just a transport function, but an important part of the emergency chain. Thanks to new technology and increased competence, diagnostics and advanced treatment can be started before the patient arrives at the hospital. It is also planned to establish a new air ambulance base in conjunction with the new Mjøssykhuset. The emergency hospital at Tynset shall be maintained. Furthermore, one emergency hospital and one elective hospital with daily functions in two of today’s hospital buildings shall be established. The location of the emergency hospital and the elective hospital and the activities of hospitals are now being investigated. This work refers to social and travel time analysis. The balance between eastern and western parts of the Inland Hospital Area shall be taken into account in the investigation. Following the plan, the Health South-East Board shall decide on the location and content of activities in February next year. Due to emergency concerns, an important part of the evaluation was carried out in the selection of a new hospital structure at the Hospital Inland. Three hospitals will provide good opportunities for flexibility in dealing with the large number of patients in a disaster situation. In addition, a new and modern dairy hospital will have far better facilities to maintain preparedness. Local medical centres and prehospital services will also contribute to the safe and well-managed care of patients with acute illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e981	It sounds like the Council of State is fixed in a dairy hospital at Mjøsbrua. A lot of people are wondering about that right now, because there's been a debate in the local media over the last few weeks about whether there's any uncertainty about the location of a major hospital. It came as a result of the presentation of travel distances at different locations of main hospitals, elective hospitals and emergency hospitals by the Chairman and CEO of Health South-East. Afterwards, there has been a discussion about whether Mjøsbrua is actually stuck. My question to the Council of State is whether he can confirm that Mjøsbrua is stuck as a location for a new main hospital if the conclusion is that it is being built.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e986	I can confirm this, both that Mjøsbrua is stuck – I think we both agree – and that the location of the new hospital should be in that area. So there are now different alternatives, plots, etc., and the fact that the management in Health South-East presents numbers and the basis for that, is part of having an open process. But the business meeting's decision that the new hospital should be at Mjøsbrua is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e991	After the decision that the Council of State began to say that there was a broad political consensus about the Inland, I would say that there is still a lot of political discussion about that being true. Especially in the light of the coronary apathy, which was the theme of this question, there are many who later ask themselves if it is so wise to build one major hospital. We're going to spend a lot of money on it if it's built, and you could get a lot of money back by building on existing hospitals -- have two main hospitals, one in Hedmark and one in Oppland, instead of collecting everything in a place where very many will get a hugely long journey. Is there any government council rejects blank, or is he open to look at a hospital model with one main hospital in Hedmark and one in Oppland? It will be better for the preparedness of very many people, who will get a much shorter journey and a better hospital offer with that solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e996	The emergency conditions, which were the basis for a local emergency hospital in Mjøsbrua, have not changed as a result of the pandemic. On the contrary, the fact that a new hospital building is being built will make it possible for a person to take more of the learning from the pandemic into the work. Estimates have been that this will also provide a better hospital response overall for the Inland. There are now many residents in Finland who just experience having to be sent from a hospital location to a hospital location because the functions are very divided. This is what we find that there is still broad political support in the Inland.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1006	‘Previously this year we had a ferry riot along the coast due to sky-high prices for people and business. In the summer, the government parties and the Progress Party agreed to allocate SEK 150 million to the ferries. In addition to this, the ferry ticket has had lower VAT, which was lowered from 12 to 6 p.m., which has helped to dampen the insurrection a little. But the draft budget by the government relaunched it. Left’s group leader in Westland, Geir Kjell Andersland, says, ‘We were both surprised and disappointed.’ Why does the government cut the money for the ferries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1013	The counties finance ferry operations within the free revenues and have a separate responsibility for prioritising low- and zero-emission solutions if they so wish. At the same time, the State shall set up. We've been doing that for years, and we're going to do that in 2021. In the government budget for next year, the government is proposing a growth in the free income of the county municipalities of 400 million. kr. Of this, 100 is million. kr justified by low and zero emission solutions for ferries and boats. The county councils will thus have an increased economic space next year, making it possible to prioritize low- and zero-emission solutions for ferries and boats. For several years, the government has strengthened the boat and ferries so that they can prioritise low- and zero-emission solutions on ferries and speedboats. In 2018, county councils received 100 million. kr for this purpose, and in the state budget for 2021 we propose to increase the bet by another 100 million. kr. The money is part of the framework grant to county municipalities and is therefore a permanent increase in the level of income of county municipalities. In addition to this, we have made changes to the cost key for county municipalities, which means that the cost growth in the boat and ferry sector is catching up faster in the income system. In the revised national budget, the county councils also received 150 million. DKK in additional appropriations for additional expenditure on the purchase of battery-powered ferries. This was a one-off grant. The state has also contributed financially to the development of green technology through Enova, Innovation Norway and the Norwegian Research Council. In the period 2015–2019, for example: Enova commitments to support a total of 896 million. kr to low and zero emission solutions for ferry connections. The government does not cut transfers to the ferries. On the contrary, all the large ferries are expected to gain a real growth in the free revenues up to the next year, so that they can continue to provide good services to the inhabitants and contribute to low- and zero-emission solutions in county ferry services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1024	I would like to thank you for your answer. I found it interesting that a story that this year has spent 150 million. kr, and that it is a one-time exercise and until next year add one to 100 million. kr and produces it as a plus. In my calculator, 150 minus 100 is going to be negative and not positive. It's probably the case in the County Calculators, too, that one feels that the bet came because one had several government councils on the ferry trip because it was a ferry riot, and one got an extra promise, and that then the same level of ambition should have been continued. I'm recording that it doesn't happen. What I record, on the other hand, is that the state's own ferries are growing much more than the cost key of the county on ferry operations. I wonder why it is that the state’s ferries have been growing more since 2010 than the income system of the county authorities has been. It doesn't harmonize with the fact that businesses and people need as much of the vacations that the county is responsible for as much as the ferries that the state is responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1031	We are committed to having both good national road haulage services and good county ferry services around the whole country. That is why, as mentioned above, we have invested considerable resources through the other instrument, such as Innovation Norway, the Climate Act, the Research Council and Enova, to help the counties establish good and environmentally friendly ferry services. But we also have e.g. changed the cost key of the county councils, which means that the increase in costs, which I believe is the concern of the representative, in the boat and ferry sectors is caught faster in the income system than was the case in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1036	I thank you for your answer. I take it as income because we have the same reality description – a rate less to the next year than one does this year, and in addition, a higher rate of spending on their own ferries than on county ferries. That's why we should have got several figures for the Progress Party model to put down the county municipality and let the state take responsibility for everything. It has been an accident on the coast that the county got this responsibility in 2010. We see that there is a worse economy for states than for the state to run ferries. Therefore, it was foolish that the red-green government shifted this responsibility from state to state. We now see that there have been poorer route offers and more expensive prices, with which many states have believed, and that is a worrying situation. I would like to ask if the Council of State is willing to look at the possibility of moving more of the ferries back to the state, because we are fully open to see that the state is better placed to take care of the ferry business than the county municipality has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1043	It is not now time to move tasks from the county municipalities back to the state when we have just been through a regional reform and have moved tasks to the county municipalities from the state. So I don't agree with the reality description, I think we've been spending a lot of time on county ferries over the last few years. It is clear that there has been a need to replace old ferries that have wanted to be 40–50 years old. It has a cost, and that cost is not only related to the fact that we have environmentally friendly solutions for the ferries, it also relates to new hulls. Then I see that the representative and I disagree a little about how good it has been for the county holidays. I think it's been a significant growth. But I remember the representative of what he could have done in this area if his party had been in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1053	‘In the system of compensation for business in the context of the coronary crisis, many companies did not receive help with their fixed costs. An example of this was start-up enterprises that could not refer to turnover and another seasonal enterprise. An example of the fact that the burden-sharing in the scheme was not good enough is that, in many cases, the owner of the house was not willing to reduce the rental costs of the company. A sector-specific scheme is now in place. Can the Council of State guarantee that the companies most affected are now caught and that the burden-sharing will be fair?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1060	The pandemic makes business’s ability to value more difficult than before. In the last few months, we have put in place schemes that have helped companies make economic and regulatory changes that have made everyday life easier. Many of those measures remain valid. Many companies have received support through the compensation scheme from us, and still there are applications for treatment. In the design at that time, we focused on getting it started fast over millimetre precision. It's an approach that there was a great deal of agreement about then. Earlier this fall, we announced a travel-life scheme. Since that time the infection has increased and the measures to prevent infection have been tightened. Since the representative submitted the question, the government has put on the table a new, wide compensation scheme. Its purpose is to prevent the bankruptcy of resilient and otherwise viable enterprises so that jobs can be secured and businesses have time and space to adapt to the situation. The new scheme is based on the previous scheme. In development, we have taken into account the lessons and experience of the previous system. And then we've cooperated with the social partners on the design, so they'll make the best possible possible, and there we've got good sense. It's important for us that the scheme actually works. Some adjustments and simplifications have been made, including: as a result of experience with the previous system and as a result of the crisis being longer than we hoped in ours. The enterprises most affected by the corona pandemic are the enterprises that have had the most fall in turnover. It captures this arrangement. The enterprises with a turnover fall of 30 pst. or more, may receive support through the scheme. The scheme compensates correctly only for parts of the fixed costs, up to 70 pst. So we're saying that companies should also be negotiating with homeowners for rent. In a private contract, the state cannot oblige homeowners to reduce the rent, but we strongly encourage it. In the current situation in the Norwegian economy, we assume that everyone is involved and contributes to the fact that even after the crisis, we have a value-creating business. It will also benefit homeowners that it is a business to rent out to, both under the pandemic and after it is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1079	As mentioned in the submitted question, many companies have not received a krone from any of the compensation schemes – not from April, nor from the one we were presented yesterday. This applies to all entrepreneurs, because you have to have figures from the previous year to refer to a fall in turnover. A good example is the travel life business of Brim Explorer. The company is newly established and operates sustainable tourism through two electric catamarans. The government has paid full attention to the company on several occasions, including: in Erna Solberg’s national meeting in the fall. There she pointed to the company's ability to convert instead of adding the boats to berth. Despite the attention being paid, the company is one of the many people who have not been protected by the government’s compensation scheme. My question to the Council of State is how the Council of State will ensure that we do not lose innovative forward-looking new businesses as a result of the travel councils and the corona epidemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1084	I also think Brim is a very good example of a company that is both sustainable, climate-friendly and forward-looking. Now this crisis has been a good time, and we see that it is going to last, so we have said that this new compensation system that we have now put on the table has a duration at least out of February. This means that many of those who started maybe last autumn, and who have fallen out of the scheme until now because they do not have a comparable month from the previous year, will now enter the scheme, precisely because the scheme is now in force almost a year after the first scheme came into force. So that's the one -- that these will now come into the arrangement. The second is that in Innovation Norway, we have a system of development and conversion, which also companies that Brim can apply for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1091	Now maybe conversion isn't the first thing you do as a founder. But it is now known, also for the Minister of Industry, that no one provides a bank guarantee or insures the package travel companies, so that they can again place their guarantees on the Travel Guarantee Fund. Without such a guarantee, it is illegal for them to drive. This applies to both the tour operators who sell travelling in Norway to the Nordics and non-residents, who provide us with export income, and those who put together trips abroad for the Nordics. Yesterday, the Council of State confirmed in a letter to the Stortinget what we have all feared, namely that the government would do nothing to help the tour operators to provide a travel guarantee for 2021, even though the Travel Guarantee Fund has warned that that decision will give a wave of bankruptcy. The consequence is that our 800 package travel companies and their 4000 employees are unable to operate. The Minister and the Government sacrifice the businesses and throw out the employees on leave. What is the Minister's advice to packagers and employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1100	I distance myself from the way the representative submits the matter, because it is in no way such that the government and the magnificence have not set up for the package tour operators. Firstly, we strengthened the Travel Guarantee Fund, not later than yesterday when we presented the proposal. Together with Stortinget, we have also given a significant amount of support to these package tour operators. Then I have also registered that someone is in favour of GIEK taking over the risk to the insurance companies in this situation. I have had some concerns about that, precisely because this is also a market that is going to work. This is a market that is also going to work again when people are going to go on vacation again and order vacations. I have a good dialogue with the Minister of Children and Family about this and will continue to have it. I'm also going to follow this part of travel life closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1110	‘The paint industry is currently struggling heavily. An example is Havyard yard in Leirvik, where on November 5, 100 employees lost their jobs. The industry is struggling with both a lack of jobs and a high cost of managing the coronary apathy, such as testing and the quarantine of the workforce. There are no activity promotion measures for the yard industry in the government’s draft State budget for 2021. Will the Council of State consider stronger measures to help the maritime industry, in particular the shipyards, to cope with the crisis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1117	In connection with the outbreak of the coronary apathy, the yard industry faces major challenges, and I share the representative's concern about it. The corona pandemic has hit industry both in practice and in economic terms, and the order intake has been reduced so far this year, which will reduce turnover both this year and in the years to come. In addition, the anti-infectious and quarantine measures have provided challenges for both production and profitability of the yards and increased costs of both infectious and quarantine measures. Many shipyards were already in a tense economic situation as a result of the 2014 oil price drop and also the loss of orders from maritime offshore. During the period after 2014, the shipbuilding industry has changed considerably from the construction of offshore vessels to other segments, such as passenger and cruise vessels, which also have a lower profitability. At the same time, the situation in the yard industry has not been unilaterally negative, and several small and medium-sized yards have had relatively stable market conditions. The government has provided measures to help Norwegian industry in general and Norwegian shipyards in particular after the arrival of the corona. We have adopted a yard package consisting of upgrading, construction and maintenance of ships for the Marine Research Institute, Norway's geological survey, Fisheries Directorate and Maritime Defence. The value of the package is 744 million. kr for the period 2020-2024. We have also adopted a green shipping package, which includes, among other things. a new mastering system, a loan and financing mechanism for the renewal of short sea shipping fleet and fishing vessel and a strengthening of the Research Council's efforts in relation to green shipping. The shipbuilding industry also benefits from the general measures, such as the extended period of leave, loan guarantees and deferred and reduced taxes and charges. The government has also pursued an active maritime policy over the last few years and has continued extensive instruments for the construction of ships by Norwegian shipyards through GIEK and has undertaken offensive action on green shipping. The situation with a narrowing of the disease prevention measures and the entry quarantine requirements for foreign workers also shows the need for further action, which the government is working on, and we have now proposed a compensation scheme for the costs incurred in connection with the entry quarantine for foreign workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1132	I thank you for your answer. It's absolutely right that the situation is different on different sites. Fortunately, some shipyards are in an improved situation as a result of the oil tax package, such as the one in question. The centre party was at the head of a strike-through, which helped to secure the shipyards along the coast. This applies to some shipyards. Then there is someone who has activities that are aimed at aquaculture, which also goes reasonably well. However, it does not help those who are in a critical situation, for example: Havyard, where 100 employees from Hyllestad and the municipalities around now have lost their job. This has major consequences there, and new activities and assignments are needed, for example: by means of a review mechanism, which the Government of the State budget for next year has not proposed to continue. One must have reconstructed an offshore vessel. Why does not a new measure help to save jobs along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1139	As I was in my post, this is also due to market conditions in this sector. There, the state can do something – we have also done it through the package we have presented, with some public buildings. Yesterday we presented a package aimed at, among other things. the yards, which are concerned with compensating for part of the costs they have incurred in connection with the entry quarantine. It has been received – at least on the basis of what I have registered – very well, because it relieves large costs for an important time, which allows them to obtain profitability in the projects they have now. So I feel that it has been well received out there. At the same time, there is recognition that the challenge facing the yards is not only immediate — it is also more long-term and requires other and more long-term measures, such as: the conditioning system, the loan scheme, we've got it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1146	It's good that one after having had repeated recordings about it, also relieves some costs, but the most important thing for the yards is to have a mission and activity, so that one can have people in work and contribute to profitability. Of what one should have provided, is not to liquidate the conditioning system, but to extend it. It's a lot of, for example, old offshore vessels that are well used to get out and hog up, which could provide thousands of jobs. One should also have provided for a remodeling of offshore vessels. For example, Havyard in the municipality of Hyllestad, which now has to resign 100 workers, has pointed out that the government’s government budget does not have the necessary measures. Such schemes could help to save people's jobs. Is the Council willing to consider new measures to save coastal workplaces and shipyards?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1153	Maritime nutrition is an industry we have a lot of attention focused on. We're going to have that in the future. It also means that we will have attention to any new measures that may be both necessary and good for the industry. I believe we have implemented some measures now that may have good and positive consequences later on. At the same time, there are also some challenges to what the representative Gülsvik is bringing forward. First of all, because there's one too big fleet on the offshore side. If we are going to start with a conditioning there, it will also have an aspect related to the EEA Agreement and the possibilities we have to reserve it for Norwegian shipyards. It would also be of concern to the banks, I think, who have much security in these ships. So there's things about this that we're evaluating. What's important for me to focus on is that we follow the industry, we're in dialogue with the industry, and we're continuously assessing what's necessary for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1171	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1179	‘The Council of State took an interest in Abandoned Teins on the North Coast this summer. The Coast Guard and the Directorate of Fisheries have spent a great deal of resources picking up such ponds in a large number of media outlets. At the same time, there are currently large areas bound by spinal cord ropes stored on the seabed that destroy the use and sock of other fishermen, thus contributing to uncontrolled fishing. The ropes are largely registered with the Coast Guard. Why are the authorities not responding to this, and are the Council of State less engaged in abandoned spindle ropes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1186	I thank the representative for the question. Yes, I have engaged in cleaning up abandoned ponds. Some of them have apparently been standing in the sea for up to a year without smoking. This is about animal welfare, and it also leads to ghost fishing. Before the summer we got the smoking instructions tightened, so that the tea must be smoked once a week, instead of at regular intervals, as before. It also means that it is easier to seize by the type of use in the sea. I would also like to say that I would like to commend the Directorate of Fisheries and the Coast Guard for having cooperated well over many, many years. Since 1980, the Directorate of Fisheries has been carrying clean-up sticks along the coast, and there are both ropes and ropes being picked up. The fact that the media are on the verge of focusing on critical relationships that have to do with animal welfare, and I think that's actually just good. The Ministry is also aware that both ropes, trawl bags, tendons and other tools are kept on the seabed when not in use and that this is a relatively widespread practice. It is not unproblematic, and it captures sea areas and may also conflict with other fisheries and uses of sea areas. Among other things, storage of royal crabs has been problematic for shrimp trawling in the north. In addition, cordage ropes and other tools are made of plastic in whole or in part. In particular, in view of the negative impacts of plastics on marine life, it is important that such equipment does not end up in the sea. As I see it, the time has therefore come to regulate and tighten the practice of storing objects and fishing gear on the seabed. On 21 September this year, the Ministry of Fisheries asked the Directorate-General for Fisheries to draw up a proposal for a regulation prohibiting the storage of gear in the proposal for a new harvest regulation. The plan is that this proposal, together with some other adjustments to the draft new harvest regulation, may be submitted to consultation by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1201	I am very pleased with the clear stance of the Council of State on these questions, and I would like to take note of Section 28 of the Maritime Resource Act, which states: ‘It is prohibited to discard, or unnecessarily leave behind, marine or marine capacitors, moorings and other objects which may harm the life of the sea, impede the execution of housing, damage to domestic appliances or endanger the safety of vessels.’» There is no distinction in this respect between different types of travel planes that are stored on the bottom of the sea, and probably intelligible. Marine resource laws are – and I would also believe that the promise before, the Saltwater Fishing Act, was – very clear that a person cannot use the sea as a storage space. The father that something is going to be left is big. Will the Council of State strike as hard on the spindle rope as on the crayfish?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1213	I believe that I answered that question quite clearly, and I also fully agree with what is being said about the marine resource law. The challenge has been that the storage of tools is not directly regulated. That's why we've asked the Fisheries Directorate to tighten up the regulations on that point, which I referred to in the answer instead. We get feedback from both the Coast Guard and the Fisheries Directorate that the cleaning-up rods they've had in the last six months underline the need to tighten this up. This applies to both ghost fishing and the storage of gear on the seabed, even though the nets themselves are not the biggest challenge for ghost fishing, which is much worse. But there is clearly a need to tighten the legislation here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1220	I thank the Council of State for a wise answer. One thing is what was before, but now the rope is so much thicker and heavier, and so it's so much harder for other actors to use this area. It is much longer tau, it takes up much more space and becomes a much bigger problem. My reading of the marine resource laws is really very simple. It's that there shouldn't be any way to be left behind in the ocean that somehow affects marine life or others' use of it. A final question will be: within what framework is there a set of this regulatory work going on? Would it be that a set of owned land to be used, or would it be more likely that one could continue as before, but with some consideration?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1227	This is a problem we're not taking lightly. We are also aware that the industry is concerned about this issue, and we have been in dialogue, and it also has the Directorate of Fisheries, with both the Norwegian Fisheries Team and several others on the storage of gear on the seabed. It is clear that some fishermen will then probably face a challenge in finding new storage sites on land that do not lead to, for example, nauseous smells and other types of problems. But at least we've started a process to tighten this up. So now it remains to see what we're going to send out to the hearing, and then sum up to find good solutions. I am very pleased that we have a common view that this is a problem that needs to be tackled, and it is also a very important piece of puzzle in the big puzzle that is about managing our marine resources in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1234	That being the case, it is no. End of 2
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-11.ana.ud75e1248	There is no record available. This means that today's maps are ready to be processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
