ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e139	The representatives Jenny Klinge and Trond Giske, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative of Une Bastholm will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e152	I would like to make a proposal for a representative to set up a large-scale review commission to examine Equinor's foreign investment and the ownership management of Equinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e157	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e164	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Roald Hansen and Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Roald Hansen and Hans Andreas Limi are unanimously elected presidents of today’s meeting. The President will draw attention to the fact that case No. 5 on today's map has not been out in the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the President will propose that the matter be examined. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e188	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e204	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e211	This is about temporary changes in the Planning and Building Act in order to make it easier for municipalities to deal with some of the challenges that the covid-19 epidemic is giving us. The proposal, to which the Committee agrees, is intended to exempt private and public operators, in the context of defined health and care services, from the usual procedure for temporary changes in use and for the construction of temporary buildings. An overall committee sees this as necessary, which is also later to be the general agreement of the hearing bodies. There is also agreement that the law can come into force immediately. However, the members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV consider that the law does not need to apply beyond 1 November 2020 – this difference from the Government’s proposal, which indicates a duration until 1 January 2021. I guess someone from those parties will promote their own proposal on this. On the part of the government parties, there is no great achievement in the length of this law in and on its own. The date of 1 January has been determined on the basis of an assumption of the period for which the law will be necessary. It is no worse than that if the deadline is too short, or if 1 January, as estimated, is not long enough, we will have to re-examine it here in the Chamber. In any case, there is broad agreement on the proposal, and I would like to thank you for good cooperation and note that we are essentially in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e226	As the rapporteur has explained, this temporary derogation from the application and authorisation requirements for the change of use and the location of temporary construction works to be used for healthcare services, kindergartens, schools, crisis centres, family protection offices, accommodation of asylum seekers, etc. The ministry says that they have received input from the municipalities, which have revealed the need for change, so these exceptions are necessary to have an opportunity to do so in the future. The centre party supports that proposal. We believe, however, that the exemption law has an unnecessary length of time. Sufficient derogation should be provided for until 1 November 2020. Then the Storting is united, and if it is necessary to continue the law, then we can deal with such a proposal. We support the content, but we want a shorter working time for the law. I would like to take up with this the proposal of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e233	The representative, Heidi Greni, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e238	There is no doubt that there is a need for such a law, but it is also important that the Storting does not have such crises beyond what is strictly necessary. I think in particular about the situation in the schools where the students don't come to school. There may be an absolute need for municipalities to rig schools with racks, etc. Then we're going to hope that by November 1st it's normalized, and then you can use the school buildings as they are. We believe that such temporary laws should be as short as possible, so we add up to this treatment. The size has agreed to treat laws quickly when necessary in these times. Therefore, we believe that this is sufficient time until the Storting has been reassembled for the harvest and may extend such a law if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e245	The Korona crisis has created many challenges in all parts of society. There is therefore reason to rejoice that the infection seems to be under control, so that we can gradually reopen society. At the same time, we know that the infection is not over. We need to continue to comply with the infectious disease protection rules on physical distance, quarantine and isolation. In order to meet the requirements of distance, hospitals, asylum recipients and schools have had an urgent need for more space. This is why the government has proposed to make temporary changes to the Planning and Building Act with the aim of making it easier for municipalities to make rapid decisions on measures to limit the spread of infection, and I am pleased that the proposal is widely endorsed by the Stortinget. The Planning and Building Act is designed for normal situations. It takes too much time to rebuild and therefore the need for more space needs to be resolved either through the changed use of existing buildings or through the deployment of racks and tents. Under the Planning and Building Act, the changed use of construction and temporary location of construction works shall be dealt with by the municipality. Ordinary processes mean that the procedure can take about 12 weeks. In an emergency situation, rapid clarification is essential, which is difficult to achieve within the framework of today’s law. I am familiar with cases where the Korona crisis has led municipalities to have to break the Planning and Building Act in order to be able to grant permits quickly enough. I have also received feedback from municipalities that both the Korona crisis and the refugee crisis in 2015 show that the Planning and Building Act is not suitable for dealing with emergencies, and that there is a need for an exception. Although there have been signs that there is a need for a permanent derogation, the government initially proposes that the provision should last until 1 January 2021, but, as the rapporteur also said, there is no performance associated with this date. Following the proposal, municipalities may grant derogations for temporary measures of a duration of up to one year. If there is a need for exceptions that last longer than this, the ordinary processes of the Planning and Building Act must be followed. Furthermore, only construction to be used for healthcare, kindergarten, school, childcare, crisis centres and crisis centres, family protection offices, accommodation of asylum seekers and accommodation of prisoners in prison may be exempted. The purpose of the delimitation ensures that the provision is practically manageable for the municipalities, and since initially only public authorities are able to request a derogation, there is little danger that the provision will be misused. There are some basic requirements of the Law on Planning and Building that must be laid down. Therefore, municipalities cannot grant exemptions if this would lead to a risk to users of the building or damage to the environment or cultural heritage or to the loss of natural or food diversity. No exceptions have been made to the right to complain. Legal certainty for, inter alia: neighbours and others affected by the decisions of the municipality are thus protected by the fact that they may be tested for the decision of the municipality. As far as possible within tight timeframes, we have ensured participation and involvement at the forefront of the hearing. We have had good dialogue with the Association of Lawyers, KS and several municipalities in advance of the hearing to ensure that the provisions can be handled in a practical way and that legal certainty is taken into account. The legislative proposal was supported during the consultation. I would like to thank the Committee and the Enlarged Bureau for a very quick examination of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e264	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e281	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a sequence change of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time, will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e288	First, I have to be allowed to thank the Committee for a quick examination of the matter. This proposition contains proposals for temporary changes to the Foreign Affairs Act as a result of the outbreak of covid-19. The proposal includes, inter alia: that the foreign student should be able to hold the examination as a remote meeting and that the part of the meeting where the foreigner would otherwise have attended and explained orally may be abbreviated and completed in writing. The outbreak of covid-19 has had serious negative consequences for issues dealt with in the UN conference. The aim of the legislative proposal is to facilitate the ongoing resolution of cases by UNE within the framework of the recommended actions by the authorities to prevent or limit the spread of infection. The bill will help to ensure that foreigners are treated more quickly, and that UNE's remains do not build up unnecessarily. There is a single committee that supports this setting. Only SV have their own comments, and they may do something for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e299	These changes are necessary, so we agree with SV, but we believe it is important to stress that this law must also be applied as little as possible. The requirements of the law are not a basis for acceptance to reduce the number of attenders’ meetings with personal presence and to replace them with attenders’ meetings without attendance and only in writing. It is important that the government now ensures that this temporary law is used discretionfully and carefully. It is positive with the bill that came from the government now, because there were clear improvement points in the draft consultation that was sent out. There is also a shorter duration in what is now proposed, than it was in the consultation draft, and it is SV very pleased. We believe it is positive that it is proposed to legislate a right for the foreigner to speak both before the remote meeting is decided, and before the oral part. It must be a premise that those parts of the meeting which can now be shortened relate to aspects of the case which would in any case not have been dealt with at the hearing with personal appearance, and that shorter meetings should not be at the expense of the complainant’s ability to explain matters which may be crucial to the outcome. These are difficult issues, and it is very important that the government ensures that legal certainty is ensured even in exceptional situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e310	The outbreak of covid-19 has had a negative impact on UNE’s ability to resolve issues at meetings. I am pleased that the Committee supports the proposal for adaptations to UNE's proceedings, so that conference meetings can be held as remote meetings. It contributes to shorter waiting times and to a failure to build up UNE's remains. Ordinary meetings at UNE are held today with a principal and two members physically present, and often allow the complainant to meet in person with a lawyer and interpreter. The recommendation by the health authorities to restrict travel activities and to keep distance may be incompatible with the physical presence of nationals, complaints and lawyers in the UN. The legislative proposal opens up the possibility for conference meetings to be held as remote meetings. This means that the complainant participates via video or audio links with his lawyer. I am pleased that the Committee also supports the proposal to limit the oral participation of the complainant in a hearing. This means that the examination meeting can decide the case on the basis of the case documents. The legal certainty of the complainant is very important. There is an absolute requirement that consideration should be given to the need to use a remote meeting solution and a partial written procedure and that such a solution should be inconceivable. The legislative proposal therefore provides for the right of the complainant to comment and for the opinion to be given importance when assessing the conduct of the hearings. Other considerations, such as: The nature of the case and the vulnerability of the complainant may also be emphasised. The legislative proposal provides for flexible mechanisms that can be applied when infectious diseases are considered necessary and the legal certainty of the complainant is ensured. The general rule is that hearings shall continue to be held in an ordinary manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e321	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e338	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e345	This case is also a temporary legislative change as a result of the covid-19 epidemic. This concerns the continuation of provisions previously given as a temporary regulation on training in reception, the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social knowledge. The background is that some of the infectious diseases measures are incompatible with the satisfactory implementation of the programmes provided by the Introduction Act. There is broad consensus, and an overall committee is in agreement with the government's proposal. Nevertheless, I think there is reason to say that there is a expectation about, and we also believe that the municipalities will do their utmost and actually implement the introduction program as far as possible. I have great faith that all those who work in the municipalities with these things will stretch far to meet the needs that lie there. It is important that those who are entitled to an introduction programme actually receive an offer and are not set back in time for the development they will have in order to approach the Norwegian community. As I said, in a situation like what we're in, we have to trust that the municipalities are trying to do this, and I do. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, in addition to joining the Government's proposals, also made a separate proposal that municipalities should be fully compensated for additional costs for the introduction aid and the introduction programme resulting from the covid-19 epidemic. The government parties understand that the municipalities are to be kept financially harmless, but we believe that this issue is one of those that should be involved in the work of the Cooperation Committee, which is to be set up between the KS and the government on the local economy after covid-19, and we assume that this is to be brought into that context and seen in a larger whole. I would also like to thank you once again for a good cooperation and effective treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e356	Yes, this is a necessary change to deal with the situation now, so that the necessary infectious diseases can also be taken into account when implementing the introduction system. Like the rapporteur, I have great faith that the municipalities are doing this in the best possible way, and that we are not shutting down more than is most necessary. It is important, for everyone knows that being active and being part of such programmes is very important, both for the individual in everyday life and not least for successful integration into society and working life. The reason why the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have found it necessary to promote a separate proposal, which I am promoting, that municipalities should receive full compensation for additional costs of introduction aid and the introduction programme in the context of the covid-19 situation – for here it may be a question of extension – is that the Ministry believes that an increase in the costs of municipalities over a period due to the covid-19 pandemic could be financed within the current financial framework. It says it in the proposition, and it's a little different from what the case rapporteur said now, that you should look at this in the sample that is going to come up with a setting for next year. But these costs are now running out. A lot of expenditure is now in progress. Many incomes are now failing, and it is very serious in many municipalities. There is no reason why the Storting should not now confirm this when the government says that this should be covered within the financial framework that is already there. That is why this is necessary, and I urge the Stortinget to vote in favour of this proposal. Because it is this type of insurance that the municipalities are asking for now in order not to sit and worry that the extra costs they receive will not be compensated further. The last thing we need now is that the municipalities have to start turning the heads, cutting out measures, putting themselves on a different level of quality because they don't have the money to implement these measures in a good way and all the other activity that the municipalities now have. There, we need to ensure that as much work as possible is done, both in municipal activities and in the activities associated with them, which can make some wheels turn around. It is important that the majority vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e367	The President would just like to point out that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left is now a recommendation for B in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e372	Asylum seekers and new arrivals are involved in training in the introduction programme under the Introduction Act. These arrangements are affected as long as teaching places are either closed or have to operate with restrictions due to the outbreak of covid-19. These schemes are also affected as long as there are other restrictions in society that affect working life and other areas of participation. In the situation that has arisen, it is challenging for both the municipalities and the participants to fulfil all the obligations and rights arising from the law. The Government therefore adopted a temporary regulation on adaptations to the legislation on the training of reception, introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social knowledge based on the Korona Act. This law shall be repealed in a short time and, although less restrictive in society, continues to affect the implementation of training and introduction programmes. That is why we are proposing to continue these rules. The legislative proposal contains temporary adaptations to the Introduction Act. The aim is that participants in the schemes under the Introduction Act should be able to obtain as much as possible an offer under the Act when the outbreak of covid-19 affects implementation. We propose adaptation to the rules on training in reception, introduction programmes and training in Norwegian and social sciences. The municipality shall provide training and introduction programmes unless this is not possible through digital means or by other means. I propose that the absence of the introduction programme as a result of the outbreak be added to the duration of the programme and that the introduction benefit for full-time participation be paid. Those who are not trained in Norwegian and social knowledge during the outbreak are allowed an extension of the period for entitlement to free training. This is important in order to ensure good training for all despite this outbreak. I propose that the law should apply until 1 November. It will provide predictability for the municipalities and the participants and time to promote a new bill for the Storting if necessary. The provisions relate to the impact of the outbreak on the arrangements. When the situation becomes normalised, these exceptions will no longer be applicable, even if the law as such still applies. With regard to the proposal of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left regarding funding, I think it is worth pointing out that the municipalities have had good financial conditions for the integration work in recent years. We can inform you that there are several municipalities reporting concerns about not having enough refugees in 2020. This may indicate that the financial compensation received by the municipalities is good. Although there are obviously some increased costs related to the way you have to organise the offer now, we do not think there is a need to adopt anything specific about compensation today, but we will, of course, as the committee chairman also points out, consider the costs of the municipalities as a whole as part of the covid-19 outbreak and assess whether there is a need for compensation in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e391	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e396	I hear the council repeat now that the municipalities have good financial assumptions – now she talked about this field, but she has said that they have it in general. Then I wonder, isn't the Council of State at all following? Does not the Council of State follow the signals coming from Kommune-Norway about the uncertainty that the whole of Kommune-Norway now has for the economic situation, not only for 2020, but also for 2021? That is why the proposal that is being put forward here, where we ask the Government to provide full compensation, is very important. It is important that the Storting now removes all the uncertainties we can. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: will she help to remove the uncertainty of the municipalities in this matter, which comes to the top of all the other uncertainties that the government has also contributed to the municipalities now have?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e401	When I mentioned funding in my post, it was about financing the municipal housing, qualification and integration work. There is no doubt that this is a work that has had very good coverage. The last survey shows that the integration grant covers 99,6 pst. of the average expenditure of local authorities. And as I also said in my post, the fact that the municipalities are now concerned that they do not have enough refugees in 2020 may indicate that the funding for this is good. I believe that there is no basis for adopting a special form of compensation for this particular work after a few weeks of changed organisation and changed practice. As far as the municipal sector as a whole is concerned, it is of course important that we follow the costs of the municipalities, as part of the management of the pandemic. The government has also said that on many occasions. We have put down a sample, together with the KS, to assess the impact of the coronary crisis on the municipalities, and look at the costs of their integration as part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e408	The government says they're coming, but what's important now is that clear guarantees are given to cover the additional costs resulting from the pandemic. There's a round of laps right now, where you say yes, we'll do it, but we're going to put down samples, and we're going to pay to next year. Municipalities now need insurance to cover the costs resulting from the pandemic. I hear on other occasions the government says that it is a prerequisite. But then it can't be hard to say that we're fixing that assumption on the part of the Storing and the Government, so that that uncertainty can be overcome. It's not going to work out a problem here and another problem there, which is financed a little bit like that and a little bit like that. There is a whole now where municipalities have to get a clear promise from the government and a big deal that all extra costs will be covered. Does the Council disagree that all additional costs should be covered?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e413	The government has been very clear that we have not thought that the municipalities will be left with the bill for the coronary crisis, and that we will have a close dialogue with the municipalities to find out both what you have increased expenses, what you lose income on, and also where you save money. I believe that actually taking time for a proper review to find out what the real costs of the municipalities are is the responsibility to do. It will be very different from the municipality to the municipality how these costs turn out. It will be very different at different offers what the need for organisation is, and it is too early now to be able to be sure of exactly what municipalities need to be compensated for. As regards the offer in the introduction programme, it has just started again. It has been in operation for a week, so fixing bombasticly just what is to be covered by expenditure, I do not believe that is a responsible way to conduct economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e419	The council says that the government has assured that these expenses will be covered, and that the municipalities will be safe, but the situation out there is something quite different. Now the municipalities are working on a tertiary report and adjustment of the budget, which they are obliged to do under the municipal law. We hear about large cuts in services, we hear about municipalities that are now waiting for investment tasks, we hear about municipalities that have to set aside tasks because there is no economy for it. In the local media this weekend, I read about chairmanship representatives from the Right in Alvdal, who are promoting proposals for a reduction of 10 p.m. for all employees in the municipal sector because everyone has to be on duty and cover the corona costs. Obviously, the government representatives have no belief that this will happen either. How is the government going to try to secure the municipalities now, so that they don't come with cuttings?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e426	As I have also said in my previous answers, the government has been clear that the municipalities will not be left with the bill here, and that we will have a good dialogue with the municipalities to discover what they have of increased expenses, what they have of lost income, and how this should be compensated in the best possible way. We've already given way to 5 billion through a big decision. kr to the municipalities, we have, among other things, compensated for the loss of parental pay to kindergarten and SFO, and as I said, we have also set up a working group to look at this in order to identify the actual costs of municipalities. I believe that both the undersigned and the government as a whole have been very clear that this is a responsibility that we intend to take, and this is also a topic we will come back to in negotiations on the revised national budget and the phase 3 measures of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e431	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e438	First of all, there is reason to say that the Stortinget has negotiated the money that the municipal sector has received. It was not in the government’s proposal – there was 250 million. kr to increased discretionary funds. The five billion. kr that the municipal sector has received is the result of negotiations in Stortinget, i.e. not the government's starting point and proposals. It has shown what the government is now trying to do, and it has also been in the media and said that it wants the municipal sector to be more efficient. In Corona times with the need for more teachers, more classrooms and much more cleanness, it may not be more efficient that should be on the agenda. And immortality is even greater now. No one today has suggested in dollars and cents what the municipalities should be compensated for, but we have said that they should be compensated for their extra costs and lost income. That's what this is all about. It is about the principle – not about the details, but about the principle. The municipal sector is asking for this now, and I expect that the accumulation and government is clear, clear and unambiguous and does not say one thing in the media, something else in the proposition and the third in the pulpit here. It doesn't go any further. Now, the municipal sector needs a clear response from the government: all extra costs and all lost income must be compensated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e443	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e460	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e467	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for providing what must be a record-breaking review in the Committee on Justice. Working fast we have become used to gradually, and I also know that the voters out there expect us to work 24 hours in this crisis, but at the same time it must be stressed that we should avoid what we can do. In this case it could have been avoided, and it is regrettable that it was as short a time as it was. Nevertheless, there is reason to thank the Committee for a very good work in the short term. So it's also nice to see that we've gradually got good practice writing together where there's a basis for consensus. That's what I think is a fine tradition that we have to try at best to take with us. The case itself opens up some exceptional, temporary measures in the field of criminal law and criminal enforcement, for which the government has previously opened up by the Korona Act. It's being opened for reconciliation interruptions. The Committee has not been able to agree on whether or not to deduct penalties. It's a little important for us from the government parties to state that we don't want it to go to any curtailment of the punishment itself. The penalty must be implemented. However, the Committee is very much in agreement about the fact that a strike must be far below the list of measures in question. We also stress that those who are in an ongoing treatment course should not be subjected to restitutional interruptions. There is also consensus in the Committee that visitor restrictions must be implemented. It's completely natural and necessary in the situation we're in. That, of course, must also be managed wisely. We also have a point that unused premises should be considered for use in case of capacity problems. To put it mildly: it's a kind of decision in which the different batches probably add slightly different content and meaning. So I think it might be a good idea to clarify from the Right, and certainly also from the government parties, that this is not a starting point for a major rematch or a major structural debate in criminal matters. The coronary situation is serious, but it is transitory. This is not a good opportunity or the venue for a major structural debate on which prisons will be held and which will not exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e482	As the rapporteur says, in record time the Judicial Committee has dealt with this proposition on temporary changes to the Penal Code. I would like to stress that not only has the committee been quick, they have also found together in some very good measures that strengthen the government's proposal for the Storting. I would also like to thank the Association of Lawyers, NFF and Jussbuss, who in a short time were able to provide good and concrete feedback in the written consultation round. I would also like to highlight some particularly important clarifications made by the Committee. First, I would like to commend the Committee for having gathered around the proposal: ‘The government is asking the government to review all of the detainees and assess their reopening in order to be able to liquidate the ever-increasing queue’. The criticism of the opposition and the Workers' Party, which deals with the systematic dismantling of criminal services, is well-known and has been raised many times in this Chamber. In particular, in the context of the closure of open prisons, the Labour Party has noted that this is a reduction in the public sector that will make the provision of services vulnerable to fluctuations and difficult times, which we now experience in particular during the crisis related to covid-19. Although, as the rapporteur also points out, the arguments of the various parties are certainly different, it is nevertheless gratifying that it seems that we can have an aggregate increase that sees the need for more prison places and reopening. However, the working party will make it clear that this must not in any way lead to the return of staff and prisoners to a state of uncertainty and temporary detention. The government must provide a clear framework and predictability for any reopenings. The Labour Party will also strongly recommend that the Council of State listen to employees’ organisations in this work. Furthermore, the Committee points out that we need to avoid, as far as possible, the use of accumulators. Reconciliation interruptions are initially a detachment and put prisoners in a difficult situation if they are ordered to do so. The Committee has also concluded that it is very unfortunate if a patient on a treatment course is interrupted and thus not allowed to carry out the rehabilitation. This must also be taken into account by the Council of States to minimise this. Otherwise, we have concluded that footlinks should only be applicable if parole would otherwise be refused. This is to ensure that we comply with the law on the minimum level of inviolable punishment for the prisoner. I finally take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e508	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e513	As in the past, things have gone very, very quickly in the swings, and I think it has gone a little too fast. It is clear that there have been proposals here that we have not had the opportunity to make good and thorough assessments of. But I understand the situation we're in, and I can accept it to some extent. Today, early on, we heard assistant health director Espen Nakstad say to the news that there is hardly any infection left in the Norwegian community, or he used the formulation almost not to contaminate again – there is full control, nor are many who die from this pandemic. From that perspective, the Storting should be very critical to new temporary laws, at least when the new temporary laws to combat them extend over a long period of time. My first impulse when I saw this proposal was that this law was unnecessary, because especially the changes related to changes in criminal law and the law of criminal enforcement could now be handled with – in a way – normal operation, you don't necessarily need temporary laws to deal with this now that things are really so very, very well on track. There hasn't been a rush of new crime, there hasn't been any blasted prisons, there hasn't been a lot of infection in prisons, there's barely any record of deaths in prisons either. But we have worked together, and I have agreed that we should still be able to deliver this proposal to the government. Most critically, I have perhaps been to the restrictions that are still proposed in terms of visits to prisons. The right to visit prison is to the extent enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights — that is the right to family life. The government now leaves to each prison on an individual basis to refuse detention visits, in other words, on each basis to deny them a fundamental human right. It is not clear how this should be done, nor the criteria to be set for refusing visits. I think the prisoners will experience this as a kind of extra punishment, and they will perceive it as incomprehensible at a time when society is constantly opening up. My fear is that this can be used and also perceived as a disciplinary measure in prisons. If you don't behave properly, you're at risk of being denied a visit. That is why we have made a proposal in which we believe that refusal of visits should be well justified in writing. It shall also be logged in such a way that it can be verified and that the refusal of visits is not used for any purpose other than infection protection — not for disciplinary measures — in each prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e526	On the basis of the Korona Act, a temporary regulation on the enforcement of penalties has been adopted to remedy the consequences of the covid-19 outbreak, and this proposal proposes to continue until 31 October 2020 the provisions of the temporary regulation on visits to prison, electronic control measures such as probation from prison sentences and criminal offences. The rules proposed shall help to ensure safe conditions in prisons under the covid-19 pandemic. The refusal of visits and criminal offences against the will of the judgment itself is very invasive, but the rules are designed in such a way that the measures should be applied only if circumstances so require. The left believes that that threshold should be high. Visits may only be refused if the visit would involve a specific risk of infection or health or it would be disproportionately demanding to carry out the visit because of sick leave in prison. I am pleased that an overall committee is clear that as far as possible the use of absolutions as a means of meeting infectious and capacity considerations must be avoided. Acquittal interruptions have a very negative consequence in that the offender will be able to resume to a small extent a normal life during the period of interruption in terms of school and work, and other measures must always be assessed before termination of accruals. In order to remedy the situation of growing cows, an overall committee also goes in to ask the government to consider reopening the recently closed prisons where the building stock and property have not been sold and where they can be put into service at short notice. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on an important matter of very short deadlines, and a special thank you to the rapporteur for the good management of the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e539	On 27 March 2020, the Korona Act provided for a temporary regulation on the enforcement of penalties. The regulation regulates inter alia: visits to prison, electronic control measures as conditions for parole from prison sentences and criminal offences. With some adjustments, the legislative proposal follows up the provisions to this effect. The provisional Chapter 3(A) of the Penal Code is proposed to last for October. The outbreak of covid-19 has significant consequences for criminal justice. In prisons, prisoners live closely together, and individuals have limited opportunities to protect themselves from infection. The concern of both prisoners and employees requires criminal services to prevent infection. One of the measures has been to refuse visits to prison. Furthermore, it has been important to ensure that criminal services have some flexibility in terms of the number of prisoners to be in prisons, so that the coating can be adapted to capacity. Fortunately, the situation is now more transparent than it was in March, but criminal services still need to prevent the spread of infection and be able to adapt their activities to capacity, even if the situation would change to the worse. These are the needs underlying the proposal in the proposition. Following the proposal, the question of whether prisoners may receive visits shall be subject to a specific assessment. Criminal services have facilitated the possibility for prisoners to have family contact through remote communication and are concerned that issues of physical visit will now need to be assessed more specifically than in the first phase. Penalties for capacity reasons, as suggested in Section 45(c), are not ideal, but are nevertheless proposed as a tool to ensure that there are no more prisoners in a situation of infection and infection than the criminal services can handle. Against the importance of infectious diseases and the proper conditions in prisons, I believe that the legislative proposal is sound, and I thank the Committee for good cooperation and very rapid treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e552	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e557	How quickly does the Council of State see that the Department will be able to initiate its assessments and possible reopenings of prison sites to relieve the settlement queue, which is now well over 1,000 people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e562	The reconciliation queue was basically down to 500. The capacity was great, and we'd get an overcapacity if we didn't shut down prisons. The situation has turned heavily on our heads, but we are now working together with the criminal services to get the capacity up. It is now called in again to atoning after it has been stopped for a while. We have also asked for duplicate prison cells to be evaluated. We've had 200, so 400 has been connected, so to speak, so that's capacity right there. In addition, new Agder prisons will be opened in June — at the end of June as planned. So we're now working on getting up the capacity, so that everyone in line is going to be called in to atonement as soon as it can be done in the situation we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e568	I respect that we have a little different understanding of both the description of reality and the arguments for reopening prisons. But now the council mentions that duplicates will be current. Does the Council of State mean that you want to go in for duplications rather than reopening places in those prisons that can now more or less turn on the light in and let prisoners into?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e573	The answer to that is yes. That's the corona crisis that's why we completed duplicates. If the situation now comes under control, and you can do this in a responsible way, you can use the places that you've doubled in the past for further duplication. It is decided by Stortinget to wind up places. That plan is now disrupted by a coronary situation, but that's what's motivated, not the general debate related to our very different positions on criminal custody. But this must be done in a responsible way, and it is not appropriate to do so until it is proper – of course not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e578	I note that the Council of State says that there is a desire to duplicate rather than reopen spaces that are ready to start. I'm going to go on to another question. SV, the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the Progress Party stress in our joint comments on this matter that criminal services should be empowered to strengthen the free movement of workers if necessary for the implementation of the proposed measures. This is a majority opinion of the Committee. How will the Council of State follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e585	Of course, we follow up majority remarks. This is a note that requires that we get information from the criminal justice system. We do that on an ongoing basis, we have close dialogue with them. Should it be needed and expressed, which means that we have to go to the Storting in order to increase the appropriations – this is a budgetary issue – we will of course have to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e590	Visiting a family in prison is a fundamental right. This means that refusing a family visit to prison will be a violation of a fundamental right. How will the Minister of Justice facilitate that this will not be arbitrarily assessed from prison to prison and from prison management, prison officers, etc., in order to violate a right on a personal and private basis? What kind of criteria are prisons now equipped to have an equal, uniform and correct assessment of the visitor’s nationality?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e597	We're in a desperate situation. Right now we have very little infection, but we're busy keeping control. We have a responsibility for that to all the inhabitants of the country. That is why we are in a situation where children are not at school – my child is not at school and has a full week – very many are not. Hospital residents are not allowed to visit, and prison inmates are not allowed to visit either. Infective professional advice does this. It's not a matter of punishment or arbitrariness, it's purely a matter of infection. What criminal services do is send out common guidelines. Yesterday, so that prisons can relate to guidance — as we do in many sectors of this situation — that will allow them to facilitate visits. But if you can't, you have reason not to visit, because of the risk of infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e602	Unlike schools and hospitals, etc., where rules are now in place in view of the current situation, an individual assessment is being made in prisons. In other words, it is prison management, on an individual basis, who is to make a decision. It appeared in a press release that the Council of State had a few days ago, that it is on an individual basis. I am then concerned about how we should avoid this being handled at random, and how precise the guidelines that have been sent out are, so that we avoid any kind of randomness around the refusal of visits.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e607	I think we fully agree that these are intrusive measures. However, when an individual assessment is to be made, it is precisely to strengthen the rights of the prisoner and precisely not to have general considerations. So you have to go in and think about it in concrete terms: can it be done? The starting point is that the rights of prisoners should be respected, but I have confidence in both the criminal services, the prisons and the Directorate of Criminal Affairs, that they are making good judgements, and that guides are now being sent, so that prisons can follow this up as best they can. This is a temporary situation. I hope we get through it as soon as possible, but right now this little flexibility is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e612	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e631	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e638	I would, of course, like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation in this matter as well. I also want to add to the hearing bodies on the list of those who deserve an extra thank you, for both in this case and in so far as the previous one they showed an incredible ability to throw around in a short time and make good recordings, and then it's also great to be able to sign them out and follow many of the recordings that have come. We have one job in this committee, and that is to prevent queues right now, in the courts, in the police, in the prosecution, just to be able to deal with the situation that comes after, and to ensure that we do not have too much leftovers. The measures under the Korona Act have helped very well in the time that has passed. Now we have to get it formalised and legislated, and so does this proposal, which is largely supported by the Committee and the Stortinget. Then we've done a little clarification, and it's about the case in the Supreme Court. There we have done so that in some of the cases we make it up to each party to assess whether it is appropriate with written processing or not. We think that is a reasonable way to make sure that the parties feel adequately cared for in legal proceedings. At the same time, we have to make sure that matters in the Supreme Court do not start again, so we make a transitional rule for this. Now it's very technical, but the setting says that the government is asked to return to this in a proposition. It should have been said ‘in order’ – just so it's said. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee once again for being able to write together and reach a broad consensus. I think it has its self-esteem in things like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e651	I want to thank the case spokesman for a good cooperation. Some of the first things we did before we started to deal with the matter was to send a letter to the Ministry of Justice, where we asked for an up-to-date covid-19 foundation. We got that, and it tells us why we're in favour of this temporary law. I want to start by thanking the hearing authorities, but also those working in the courts. There is an urgent time to stand in now. Sorenprinters and addees to the Court of Justice show a great ability to move around and use many creative solutions to implement what is important — the execution of justice. There was also a little too long queue of places before this crisis. It is now an increased challenge both for those who are accused, and for those who are victims of crime. I just want to mention a relationship that the case manager doesn't mention. It is that the committee collects is too short-lived. We agree that the temporary law will apply for five months. I'm glad we stayed a few days. We are also clear that if one is to extend the temporary law, the government has to come to Stortinget with a new case. All in all – a good cooperation, done in a very short time, but I thought that all of us in the committee were going a long way to do this in a good way, so that we could get a consensual recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e662	It is also a demanding time for the courts, and the purpose of this temporary law is to make it easier for the courts and for other actors in the justice sector to resolve cases in the situation that arose after the outbreak of covid-19. This bill extends the right of the courts to hold remote meetings and to conduct remote interrogations. More use is being made of written handling of criminal cases and criminal proceedings and temporary solutions are being proposed for the signing and denunciation of judicial decisions. A Joint Committee acknowledges the need for more effective case resolution, and I am pleased that a Joint Committee is in favour of this organisation and simplification measures to ensure that cases are resolved quickly, and that the queues do not increase even more in this situation in which we are. It is incredibly important to maintain legal certainty in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e669	The majority has decided to repeal the Korona Act on 27 May 2020. Regulations based on the Korona Act shall cease to apply. On 27 March the Government adopted such a temporary regulation on adaptations to the procedural legislation to remedy the situation in the justice sector of the courts, police and prosecution authorities. The adjustments were made, among others: to extend the possibility of holding remote meetings and to deal with certain cases in writing in the courts, and to facilitate temporary solutions for the signing and denunciation of judicial decisions. As a result of the covid-19 outbreak, proceedings in the courts have been considerably reduced since 13 March. The regulation laid down improved the situation and has been of great importance in resolving cases in the Court since the introduction of the disease control measures. In particular, during the hearing on the extension of the duration of the Korona Act, the interim rules of the courts were brought forward as important to continue. Although measures to protect public health have been somewhat relaxed since the regulations were passed, there is also a need for adjustments in the months to come to allow for the settlement of cases in the courts. By continuing the measures that are effective, the courts are able to carry out their social mission, with the aim of avoiding the excessive duration of proceedings and building up even greater future balances. In a well-functioning state of law and for the legal certainty of individual citizens, it is a fundamental principle that matters should be dealt with in a secure manner and within a reasonable time. In order to achieve this, I see it as crucial that the measures be continued, and I am very pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights supports the proposal. Following the proposal, the law shall apply subject to the restrictions imposed by international obligations. The law will have a limited duration and provides for sound and secure judicial procedures. The proposal enables us to ensure the legal certainty of the population, including in this situation, and I thank the Committee for good cooperation and rapid treatment in this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e680	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e686	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 7 and 8 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e714	The majority has responded to the government's request for the urgent treatment of Prop. 102 L for 2019-2020 and Chapters 5 and 12 of Prop. 96 L for 2019-2020 with reference to the Corona outbreak. It is an overall committee that is behind the vote, and I would like to thank both the committee and the state councils for their good cooperation on matters. Let me start with 102 L, which is a temporary law on adaptations in kindergarten law, the training law and the law of free school because of the outbreak of the corona virus. The current legislative proposal is a direct follow-up to the provisional regulations based on the Korona Act, and the provisional law replaces them when the Korona Act is repealed on 27 May 2020. With reference to the coronary outbreak, it was absolutely necessary to introduce temporary provisions when kindergartens and schools were closed. Although schools and kindergartens are now opening all over the country, we are still not back to normal. There will therefore be a need to adapt legislation on kindergartens and schools beyond the duration of the Korona Act. The Committee endorses the Government’s proposal that this temporary law should last and is repealed on 1 November 2020. It is important for the Committee to stress that the purpose of the adaptations is to ensure that children, young people and adults are able to exercise their rights as far as possible, taking into account what is possible when they are subject to the current restrictions on infectious diseases. It is good that the temporary law now clarifies which rules apply and which do not apply. It is worth pointing out that, in the last consultation of the provisional regulations, the ministries pointed out that, in the light of the consultation, the ministry would also promote a legislative proposal. The members of the Committee stress that this type of urgent procedure is the exception, that there should be good grounds for derogating from normal legal proceedings in the Grand Duchy, and that, of course, the Grand Duchy will monitor closely the application of the law by the government in these cases. In the case of Prop. 96 L Chapters 5 and 12 have also been consulted widely in the field of the Ministry's legal work. The proposals are well-informed, so that this consideration is considered by the Committee as sound. Chapter 5 will allow the Ministry of Knowledge to provide for derogations from the requirement of real-time assessment of the intake of adult applicants for fresh oils, thus facilitating the intake of individual groups of adult applicants in the light of the coronary outbreak. An overall committee considers that the urgent procedure in Stortinget facilitates the effect of the change in the rules on admission to the school year 2020-2021. Chapter 12 will allow the Ministry of Knowledge to provide for derogations from the payment deferral rule for more than three years, but three years remain the general rule. This extension will allow for deferral of payments, which will be able to remedy people who are in a difficult economic situation now and who have used up the deferrals of payments to which the current legislation provides access.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e733	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e750	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e757	This is a law that has been passed through quickly in Stortinget and is now to be presented. In the case of the Korona Act, the government was given quite considerable powers to make changes. Some patient rights were suspended until further notice, and when the Korona Act expires, it is important to allow the government to continue this work. What has been chosen is to change this to the Health Protection Act, which is also a law in force in a state of emergency. The Committee considers this to be an orderly way of doing so. The Committee agrees that powers are to be maintained within that legislation. It is also the case that the Committee supports the restrictions that have been made and empowers the Government to continue them. If further restrictions are to be made, the Committee agrees that this must be done rather than the Storting and is prepared to take the consequences if it is to be done during the summer. Otherwise there is some disagreement about the working time. Two parties want shorter working hours, while a large majority of the Committee supports the government's proposal to extend this mandate by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e766	The outbreak of covid-19 has resulted in significant resource and capacity challenges for healthcare. Current health legislation does not take into account an emergency situation where over time healthcare needs to maintain a preparedness to manage a potentially high number of infected patients. At the same time, the general health challenges of the population must be addressed in order to avoid a risk of deterioration in health. I believe that there is a need for incentives to make adaptations and derogations from the existing legislation in two different areas. Firstly, there is a need for authorisation to provide for some adaptations and exceptions to the Patient and User Rights Act Chapter 2 and corresponding obligations. The Patient and User Rights Act confers a number of rights on patients and users, which, in an emergency situation, restricts the possibility of specialist healthcare to an appropriate priority. I propose that the King establish temporary regulations supplementing, supplementing or derogating from the Patient and User Rights Act, Chapter 2. The home shall be valid as far as is necessary to contribute to equivalent access to the necessary health and care services, with a sound and efficient use of available resources. No derogation may be granted for the right to immediate assistance and the right to the necessary health and care services. Secondly, there is a need for incentives to continue provisions and to maintain access to medical devices, personal protective equipment and medical food. Norway is dependent on imports to meet the needs of this type of product. The market and supply chains are global. Production is largely in China and other low-cost countries in Asia. In view of the significant uncertainty associated with the development of covid-19, there is reason to believe that the demand for medical devices and personal protective equipment will remain high worldwide and that the need for these types of products cannot be met. For this reason, restrictions on sales related to rationalisation and exports will be necessary in order to make the most of resources in Norway. In addition, it is necessary to provide for derogations from the applicable requirements for the placing on the market and putting into service of medical devices and personal protective equipment. This derogation is necessary for, inter alia: ensuring access to sufficient infectious disease protection equipment and equipment for the testing of covid-19. The spread of infectious diseases is at a level which means that the health and care services are capable of providing the infected persons with proper care and, at the same time, of stepping up their normal operation. However, there is considerable uncertainty about future developments. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to the bill promoted by the government. I have noticed that the Stortinget states that in the case of patient rights, one does not want the mandate to be used in addition to what it has been used for now, but I also believe that, as the situation is now, provides a sufficient preparedness, and if it is needed in addition to that, I have to contact the Stortinget to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e777	I want to associate some notes with this setting. We support the setting as such. I am pleased that we were able to get a deal in the committee just about the limitation that the Council of State had in its statement, namely that the committee does not support the change that leads to restrictions on patient rights beyond what was laid down in the regulations under the Korona Law § 2, dated 27 March 2020 – i.e. what concerns free treatment options, etc. We have given our agreement to this, but not a broad mandate for further restrictions on patient rights. Then the government has to come back to Stortinget in case. Furthermore, we believe that it has not been demonstrated that it is necessary that this law should apply until the new year. We also see that the other issues that Stortinget is dealing with today are lifted before. From that point of view, we believe that the law can be lifted on 1 November 2020, and I propose it on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. We believe that Stortinget has plenty of time for the cottage to possibly extend this promise if there is a need for it. That is the starting point for me to make this proposal. I would also like to say that, if our proposal falls, we will be able to vote in a subsidiary way for the whole position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e784	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e789	We in the Progress Party understand that the government needs a mandate to make different adjustments to the coronary apathy we are still in. But we have great questions about how the government intends to deal with the health cows that are built up in this period. The last numbers we've been presented with are that through the coronary apathy, 250,000 patient agreements have been postponed. There are 250,000 people in Norway who have been put on hold for their lives pending a necessary treatment that Health-Norway unfortunately does not have the opportunity to give them. During this period, hospitals have prepared for a number of interventions involving covid-19 patients. During this period several hospitals have driven on half the machine. They have a covering of 53 pst. only at the University Hospital in Oslo. This means that hospitals had the capacity to carry out several planned operations, but chose not to do so. During the same period, the government has not used the capacity existing in the private sector. The LHL Hospital Gardermoen, perhaps one of Norway's finest hospitals, has licensed employees, reduced and reduced their operations because they do not have patients. This raises major questions for the Progress Party — why not the government in this period have made sure to purchase all the capacity available in the private sector to keep health cows as small as possible. During this period, the government has chosen to wind up the system of free choice of treatment. Thus, patients have not been able to apply to other hospitals if they have been informed that their patient agreement or operation has been postponed. In the law now presented to the Stortinget, the government is asking for a continued mandate to continue a restriction on the free choice of treatment. We in the Progress Party are simply in disagreement with that. We want free treatment options to be reintroduced. It is important for patients, to ensure that they also receive the treatment they deserve. It is important to ensure that health cows go down. I would like to take up the proposal of the Progress Party on this matter and ask the Minister for Health to explain the health cows that have now been established under the coronary apathy. I also ask that the Minister of Health explain to us how he intends to get away from those health cows, if he does not intend to use the private sector more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e802	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e807	SV will vote in favour of the vote, even if the proposal from the Centre Party and SV falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e812	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e817	I will first reply to the reason for the home on 1 January. It's like the government on 7 May put forward a longer plan for dealing with covid-19, and there's our best assessment at this point that we have to live with the coronary virus as a public health threat for at least one to two years in time. For healthcare, this may be more demanding than for other sectors, related to the level of preparedness that you will have at that time. That is also some of the reasons why we have proposed 1 January precisely with regard to this home. One could of course have done as the Center Party suggested and had it until 1 November, but then we believe it is very likely that in November we had to extend that home anyway, and then we thought it was more reasonable now to put it on 1 January. With regard to the posts of the representative Bruun-Gundersen, I broadly agree with the representative. It is also my intention to facilitate some of these rules as quickly as possible, especially in relation to free choice of treatment. I agree that we need to use the free capacity of private people now to get away from the queues that have arisen, and therefore that part of my mission to the regional health companies was right after Easter that they also had to use their private partners to reduce the delays that are now. I think it was right to reduce the activity not only in the public hospitals, but also with the private actors in the period before Easter, when we were in a state of emergency. There are several reasons for this. At that time, we still had challenges related to the delivery of infectious diseases equipment consumed in healthcare. We had big plans for redeploying health professionals, including from private actors. We also carried out major redisposals by private hospitals, such as hospitals. Martina Hansen Hospital. So at that point, I think it would be wrong to let the private part of healthcare operate as before, while the public health service went into the emergency room. I believe it is a strength in Norway that we can also use the private part of healthcare into an emergency care facility, and I also understand that the private operators were positive about it. Now we are in a new situation, and then I fully agree that we will also use the private actors to solve the public health problems that are now also going to be about reducing the queues that have built up in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e829	There has been a great effort in society and in the health care community to save lives from being lost under the coronary apathy. What's our big concern now, however, is what's happening in the wake of this. The fact that hundreds of thousands of consultations, studies and operations have been postponed is worrying. The fact that we see that the numbers of cancer-related studies have fallen sharply is worrying. Then the fear is that life can be lost by other types of disease because they are not discovered, or because you don't get enough help. The party of progress is skeptical and opposed to depriving people of the possibility of free choice of treatment. It's simply because it's a right that we believe is and should be fundamental to society. But the most important thing in the future is to get answers on how to bring down the health cows. We saw in the newspaper today that it was called for warning that the follow-up is now so large that we talk about years before you can take it back. Before this crisis arose, many people in Norway were also in a hospital queue. That is why I think it is very important that the Minister of Health will soon inform the Storting about how to resolve this in the future. Where are the queues increased most? In which field has this happened? I believe that this is very relevant for Stortingen to get information about. I am very happy to hear that there are plans to use private facilities with free capacity. I believe that this is absolutely crucial in the future to bring up the steam and raise the capacity of the healthcare system, but we need to look at what extra we can now do to get rid of these queues. That is why the Progress Party has been quite clear that this is an important matter for us in the context of the revised national budget. Now we have to rust up the health system to be able to save lives and make sure that this coronary apathy at the other end does not contribute to more deaths of diseases than you would initially wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e838	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e855	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e862	First, I would like to thank the Committee for constructive cooperation in this matter. Child protection shall operate in times of crisis and in exceptional situations and provide the necessary assistance, care and protection in a timely manner to vulnerable children. As is well known, on 12 March the government introduced a series of interventional measures to limit the covid-19 pandemic, and due to quarantine rules and disease protection measures it became necessary to implement rapid measures for the population so that they could treat child protection matters in a safe and orderly manner. Provisional procedural rules were therefore adopted by the Korona Act, and the hearing opinions gave broad support to this. The Committee now supports the Ministry's wish to continue in the law rules laid down in temporary Regulation 3 April 2020 No. 575, on simplifications and measures in the field of child protection and care to address the consequences of outbreaks of the pandemic. The Committee considers that infection prevention measures will continue to prevent the normal operation of child protection and the settlement of cases in the counties for a period to come, and that the accumulation of a large number of cases and large residues is very unfortunate. Long trial periods could be interrupted by the individual’s right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time. The opposition will present its comments on the proposed measures. I would like to point out that in several of the measures the use of videoconferencing systems is proposed rather than in person. The measures concern the possibility of distance meetings and distance interviews, the combination of oral and written processing in the county, voting and consultation in the county, the requirements for monitoring visits and follow-up visits and, finally, the temporary movement of children from a child protection institution in the event of infection in the institution. The members of the Committee are very concerned that the child's involvement in all matters relating to the child is documented when this temporary law is introduced and their opinions are to be adopted. The Committee also asked for short-term written recordings for its consideration of the proposal, and we would like to thank both the Children's Ombudsman, the Law Association and the National Children's Protection Association for recording. With regard to the duration of this interim law, the Committee has agreed that the Ministry must return to the Stortinget if there is a wish to extend the working time of all or part of these measures beyond 22 October. The Committee therefore recommends the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e887	I just want to start by saying that I think that the urgent treatment of a matter like this is not quite simple. Both the Center Party and I have a great deal of understanding that extraordinary situations require extraordinary efforts from us as legislators, but it may be important in such situations that we have thorough processes, with good judgment and sound decisions. Because, after all, what we are adopting today can have major consequences, not least for vulnerable children. But urgent treatment in Stortinget is better than how we dealt with so to say the same thing under the Corona Act a month ago, and I would like to thank both the committee chairman and colleagues on the committee for having worked fast and well on the matter. Both the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV see the need to continue several of the measures introduced at that time – in Regulation 3 April 2020 No. 575, on simplifications and measures for the protection of children and children in order to address the consequences of outbreaks of covid-19, and to support its continuation in temporary law. However, we have three parties to object to some of the proposals. Paragraph 2, on remote and remote meetings in the county, and Section 3, on the combination of oral and written processing in the county, provide that the principal may make a number of decisions alone. The general theme consists of three people: a teacher, a professional and a playwright. The Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV believe that the professional is important in order to make correct decisions under such circumstances, and we therefore believe that the word ‘leader’ should be replaced by ‘substitute’. Furthermore, we believe three parties that matters under the Children's Protection Act §4-12, on care takeover, and 4-20, on forced adoption, should not have a combined oral and written treatment without the parties agreeing to it. That is why we propose that Section 3 adds that the parties must consent to the combination of oral and written handling of care-taking and forced adoption issues. These are very interventional measures, and it is important for us to ensure that children and the legal security of families are safeguarded. The centre party, the Workers' Party and the SV will vote against Section 5. We see no pressing need to continue this provision. In our opinion, the temporary movement of children from a child protection institution without regular treatment in the county leads to an excessive deterioration in the legal security of children and young people. Both the Association of Lawyers and the KS have objections to this paragraph, and it is also clear from the proposition that there has been no real need for that paragraph. No cases where the paragraph has been applied have been reported. It is therefore difficult to see that the practical need for this paragraph is so great that it needs to be continued, not least against the deterioration in legal certainty it represents, as the conditions described as the basis for the paragraph can also be followed up with the existing legal rules. With that, I'm taking up the proposals of the minority in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e906	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e911	I am pleased that the Stortinget is today examining the proposal for a temporary law on adaptation of the legislation on child protection and the county council to remedy the consequences of the outbreak of covid-19. It is absolutely essential that child protection and county coverage, which are, of course, societally critical functions, also function in exceptional situations. The anti-infectious measures necessitated the rapid adoption of some exemptions from the Child Protection Act in order to ensure the care of vulnerable children and to ensure that the action of the county council did not stop. Even though we have now eased the fight against infectious diseases, it is uncertain how the outbreak of covid-19 will affect society in the future. I suggest that the council should continue to have an extended opportunity to use the remote and remote meetings and to settle matters after a combination of oral and written processing. These are appropriate and necessary measures to maintain case resolution while complying with the disease protection measures. The members state that the majority of the main items held depend on the exceptions in order to be implemented. If the provisions fall away on 27 May, many cases will be postponed. This may mean that children stay longer than they would like in emergency or in adverse care conditions. To the representative of Sem-Jacobsen, who has important objections, I would like to stress that the composition of the denominator and the fact that a person actually has different skills is important. But the reason why I still think it is right to continue to have some opportunity to do so with tutors is that this is about the form of proceedings, and it violates the law's system of going away from it because they already have a number of possibilities, under today's law, to make provisions. Therefore, I believe that the intention behind the points of Sem-Jacobsen is nevertheless respected, although the Stortinge will adopt what is in the temporary law. Then we've incorporated a lot of hearings, and we've made the rules so that the rights of private parties and the best interests of the child are respected. In order to apply the rules of procedure, it must be necessary because of the covid-19 and unconcerned, i.e. a strict requirement, in each case. The parties shall be informed of the form of treatment and their opinions shall be given considerable weight. Children without party rights who are able to form their own views shall also be given the opportunity to comment. When it comes to moving, as the representative of Sem-Jacobsen also took up, I share the concern, because the institution is the home of the child, and it should be very exceptional that it should be possible to move the child. Therefore, since it is an intervention, it is important for us that this can only be done if it is imperative to care for the child’s need for care and protection due to the outbreak of covid-19. We believe it is important that the rules are clear, so that if that happens, it is possible, but I really hope that this doesn't have to be used in the future either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e930	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e947	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e965	This case is about giving limited liability companies and other associations that need to meet, the opportunity to do what we in this room have also been very pleased to have them on Teams, Skype and other digital platforms. There is a joint committee that is behind a temporary law to open up the use of digital meetings in these laws. In the meantime, someone has come up with a report that someone should only do this permanently. The Committee has said that it should be subject to a regular legislative process. The requirement for a physical meeting has some purposes, and not least is a preoccupation that everyone, whether they are added or shareholders who have rights to these laws, will have their rights taken care of. A normal legal process is required before you can conclude that you want to do this. Then there's probably no big prediction that there's a political desire that in the future there'll be more room for using digital meetings than what's in the original, current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e974	I appreciate that Stortinget will deal with the proposal for a temporary law on exemptions from the requirement for physical meetings, etc. as soon as possible. in corporate law, to remedy the consequences of outbreaks of covid-19. The general rule, which was also the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee, is that meetings of the Management Board, annual meetings and general meetings should be held at physical meetings. The recommendations and recommendations of the authorities resulting from the covid-19 outbreak now prevent companies from carrying out meetings in line with the general rule. The legislative proposal continues the interim provisions laid down by the Korona Act. These regulations were given to enable companies to organise the proceedings in a way that prevents unnecessary physical contact, e.g.: by means of digital meetings and by means of electronic signature of protocols. There is also a need to continue for a period to come. The proposal, as well as the formulation of the proposal, shall meet the essential requirements for the proper conduct of proceedings. It shall include, inter alia: account is taken of employee representatives and minority shareholders. I believe that the rules proposed here, to which the Committee has joined, will help to keep the wheels moving in Norwegian activities. The Government proposes that the law be repealed on 1 November 2020. If it turns out that the need for these rules extends beyond that, I'll come back to the Storting with it. Finally, as the rapporteur also pointed out, the Economic and Social Committee in its position that the temporary law could provide the basis for future and more permanent changes in the rules. I agree with that, but I want to follow up on how this legislation works now, and to assess, in the light of the experience we have, whether it can help to form the basis for more permanent rules later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e991	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1008	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1015	I have the pleasure of being the case rapporteur for this important matter of respecting local democracy and still investigating hospital operations at Ullevål. We've had debates about Ullevål, Gaustad and Aker hospitals many times in this room, but now the debate is a little different than before. This draft representative was tabled on 25 February 2020. 16 days after that, health authorities implemented the strongest measures ever taken in peacetime. The pandemic hit Norway. The letter on the matter from the Minister of Health came on 4 May 2020. I understand that the Ministry of Health and Health in March and early in April had to spend time on other things than answering this, but I would say the answer was late. Several other matters in the Health and Care Committee that came later than this matter received a response from the State Council before this case of Ullevål. The Health Minister believes in his response that preparedness and patient safety for a pandemic are part of the plans for all new hospital buildings in Norway. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party will not adopt the proposals in this matter. They will vote against it. I'm promoting two proposals from the Center Party and SV. Proposal No. 1 is about putting the Gaustad planes on hold and getting a good, new investigation for the operation of Ullevål hospitals. Proposal No. 2 is that no state regulation is to be adopted. I will warn, at the strongest, against building tall towers in hospitals. At Stortinget it says that we have to take one for the team – take the stairs. Why? Because the elevators can become infective bubbles. Sick people can't run up and down stairs. They have to take the elevators. We don't need any more contagion bubbles in hospitals. We can't build a contagion tower in Oslo. Save Ullevål Hospital! I will address the two proposals in the matter and at the same time inform you that SV will support a good, solved proposal from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1036	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1041	The most important resource we have in health is the people who work there. But skilled professionals need modern hospital buildings and equipment to create a good health service. Investments in construction and equipment are therefore important for the patient to have the best possible meeting with healthcare. There is now a significant upgrading of the country’s hospitals in all regions. Overall, health enterprises are planning to invest about 15.9 billion. NOK in Norwegian hospitals in 2020. These investments are at a much higher level than before. Investments are not just about construction or equipment. It is about facilitating the research and development of new services. Technological development is faster than any of us really are able to understand. None of us can predict what the needs will be in the future, but we can make it possible for gambling to develop, whether it is about new ways of organizing work on or new digital and technical solutions. Now it is finally Oslo's turn, because there is a great need for new construction for both patients and employees at Oslo University Hospital. It's about giving Oslo's residents a good hospital offer. Now we're getting a new, big emergency hospital on Aker and a new medic. We also get a combined and complete regional hospital, including local hospital functions, at Gaustad, and in addition, the Radium hospital is to be further developed as a specialised cancer hospital. Overall, this means new and modern hospital building for the citizens of Oslo, and that means that we are facilitating innovation and new solutions. It's good for the people of Oslo and the rest of the country. New hospital buildings are completely different from many of today's hospitals, with new technologies and technical solutions with a completely different quality and choice of materials. The buildings on Ullevål are old and out of date. The new hospitals being planned will be better equipped in major crises than today's hospitals. In the past, cohort insulation was only possible using stand-alone construction. With modern technical solutions, separate constructions are no longer necessary to prevent the spread of infection. Scattered buildings also have other disadvantages in hospital operations. It is time for Oslo to finally get new hospital buildings. A further delay is only Oslo's residents who are losing on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1060	Hospital construction in Oslo has aroused a lot of commitment over the past few years. We have also noticed that in the Progress Party, and that is why we are dealing with a matter about it for the nth time – I have actually come out of the census. We are dealing with at least one matter now where SV wants us here from Stortinget to ask for a number of previous decisions to be converted. Therefore, I need to remind SV that this case is no longer here, it is located in Oslo City Council. In the state budget for 2020, we have granted a loan framework to the OYS for the construction of new hospital buildings. Where to lie, on which to lie, and what regulatory challenges it entails, it is actually Oslo City Council that has planning authority to decide. I note that there are different opinions also in Oslo City Council to facilitate new construction on Gaustad or on the Ullevål plot, but there is nothing the Stortinget can do. So we'll see -- it'll be exciting to follow up on how the discussion between Oslo City Council and up towards the government is going to be, and what land is being planned in Oslo for the construction of a new hospital. Then I would like to make it clear that the Progress Party also wanted a full investigation of the Ullevål option early last year. We did not get that view through in government. But there was a lighting, and that lighting concludes that it is possible to implement the construction project on the Ullevål property, but it will cost 12.8 billion. kr more, and it will take seven years longer to implement such a project. With that information, at least the previous government has concluded that full investigation is not necessary, because the answer has already been given. I think it would have served the case if you had a full investigation, so you would have been absolutely certain in these discussions. However, regardless of the case, it is Oslo City Council that now decides which empty hospital is to be built on, and we at Stortinget are only allowed to relate to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1073	The Korona virus is a clear reminder that new hospital buildings need to be planned for good and efficient hospital operations in a normal situation – of course – but also take into account good emergency solutions in extreme situations like those we now have, with a pandemic. The Workers' Party assumes that the Council of State will ensure that Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East carry out the type of assessments in connection with the development plans available for new OUS. The offer of patients in other parts of the country, and especially in the rest of the Health South-East area, is closely linked to the construction project relating to the future university hospital in Oslo. In the Oslo area, there is now a shortage of space in hospitals, and after the closure of Aker Hospital, there were capacity challenges both at Ullevål and at Aarhus – or Akershu University Hospital, as it is called. The population in Groruddalen is today being sent between hospitals based on where there is free space, which again challenges capacity both in Oslo and in Akershus. The development case itself has been dealt with repeatedly by Stortinget. We believe that a further postponement now will not benefit the population either in Oslo or Akershus, nor the other projects and patients in the rest of the area of Health South-East. The Workers' Party will remind you of the target picture of the future hospital in Oslo. Finally, the choice of location needs to be sufficiently investigated, and we are positive that the regional functions are being combined in one place – it is rare that it is as good as it is in this city – and that through Aker an emergency hospital for the Groruddal districts is being used properly, and that the existing target picture is financially sound, as the Stortinget has foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1084	Oslo City Council does not support the plans of Minister of Health and Health Bent Höie to close Ullevål Hospital. In January, the city council decided to withdraw support for the construction project at Aker and Gaustad. The Minister of Health has not neglected to impose a state regulatory plan at the head of the City Council. We therefore propose a proposal in Stortinget to prevent state regulation and demand that the hospital operations continue on Ullevål. In the meantime, things have been unpleasant. In an interview with NRK, Deputy Health Director Espen Rostrup Nakstad said that we need to think about hospital planning after the pandemic: «Perhaps we have to have systems with hospitals with more space, not build heavy high towers, but in a way have more infection protection into the way we build hospitals.» Now it's exactly the tallest tower that's planned in Oslo. On Aker, it is sought to build over 80 meters high, on Gaustad health south-east would first build 76 meters in front of the Rikshospital, and then the planet warn that this was too high and too dense, a height down to 49 meters by building even denser. The pandemic has shown that one is vulnerable with today's limited hospital capacity; several new hospitals in Norway are too small from day one. They are filled with Corridor Asians or patients who have to share single rooms, and it is not fortunate if one will prevent infection or if hospitals need to treat many seriously ill people at the same time. Despite strong population growth in Oslo for years to come, Oslo University Hospital does not plan for new hospitals to have significantly more capacity than today. Ullevål Hospitals have large and flexible plots that can spread over several lower buildings and expand as needed. When the coronary virus was circulating in Ullevål hospitals, the infection was confined to the eye ward, which is located in an oak building. With the experience of the pandemic, it is all the more important that the representatives of the Party of Advancement, the Left and the Christian People's Party listen to their party traps in Oslo City Government, and that the Labour Party representatives, when the case is to be decided here later today, read the resolution to the Oslo Workers' Party on the adequate distribution of Ullevål. I would like to inform you that we will vote for the loose proposal from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1102	There are few construction projects that have been investigated as thoroughly as new Oslo University Hospital. The planning has been in progress since 2009 and has been in dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo, which has been in favour of the hospital structure adopted in 2016. Work has been comprehensive and cost-intensive, and predictability of the work framework is important. The Municipality of Oslo at the Planning and Building Setatetate has now confirmed that the plan option for Aker and Gaustad will be presented to the public review and consultation during this month, and the plan is for treatment in Oslo City Council during the spring of 2021. The continuation of hospital operations at Ullevål was carefully assessed and monitored before I took the decision on the target image in 2016. Ullevål was also investigated in 2019, then as an alternative to Gaustad. The investigation, which was externally quality assured, showed that it would cost approx. 12 B.C.E. kr more and take seven years longer to implement. It is therefore obvious that the Ullevål option does not have economic sustainability. Oslo University Hospital is, in addition to being a local hospital for parts of Oslo’s population, also a regional hospital for the inhabitants of Health South-East and has a number of national treatment functions for residents throughout the country. Modern hospital construction is needed in Oslo, and increased capacity is needed to manage population growth both in Oslo and in Akershus. Health South-East has a responsibility for maximising the use of society's resources. In particular, labour can become a scarce resource in the future. Better use of health professionals in the metropolitan area was also one of the aims of the establishment of Health South-East in 2007 and has been a leader in the planning work of new Oslo University Hospitals. Oslo as a host municipality and as a planning authority has taken responsibility for facilitating this. New hospitals such as Aker and Gaustad are being built with completely different conditions for the protection of infectious diseases in operation than today's hospitals, with a completely different technological and structural infrastructure. The corona pandemic has shown that the main resource in major crises is the employees. For the future emergency situation, it is important that we establish a structure in Oslo as soon as possible that does not involve disproportionately higher health resources than is necessary. We can probably get back to this in the line exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1117	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1122	In the letter of reply to the Committee dated 4 May, the Council of State wrote: « readiness for a future pandemic is part of the plans for the new Oslo University Hospital. [[...]] Of course, experience from today's pandemic situation will be taken further into account in the planning of New Oslo University Hospitals." But when we read the plans in the draft selection report, the pandemic is not mentioned in a word. Hardly is the infection mentioned in that report. This draft evaluation report was the very basis for deciding on this hospital structure. So how can the state council in a letter to Stortinget write that preparedness for a pandemic is part of the plans for New Oslo University Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1133	That's because it's incorporated into the plans. I can give the representative some examples of this: in the case of adults, somatics, this has been incorporated, among other things. by entering all the bed rooms now as an en-suite room with its own bathroom. It's important in this situation. Daily areas shall be carried out in accordance with a principle where one team is responsible for a group of patients. Closeness and visual contact between the workstation and patient rooms are provided. 10-15 pst. of the single bed rooms shall be arranged for contact or air infection. Air transmission insulation shall be provided in rooms specially built for this purpose. Support rooms shall be set up close to workstations and patient rooms in order to minimise staff walking distances. In intensive adult and neonate departments, this type of situation has been taken into account. The number of isolates and type of isolates has been programmed in consultation with the department for infectious diseases at Oslo University Hospital. The same applies to the Children's Department. The emergency reception is also organised for this type of situation, to mention some examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1138	During the pandemic, the assistant health director, Nakstad, has received great attention and trust in the way he has communicated and managed the crisis. When he goes out and runs counter to the way a hospital builds, and that one must not build with tall towers, one must have more space, it is amazing that the council is so sure that the chosen concept in Oslo will be the pandemic preparedness in the future, when one has just managed to limit the outbreak on Ullevål by having isolated buildings. Is the Council of State saying that Nakstad was wrong, or is the Council of State behind the appointment of Deputy Director of Health to the NRK?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1143	I would also like to stress that Nakstad stressed that this was to be evaluated afterwards, and that we had to get back to experience with it. With regard to this concept that has been used in the debate on the tower of infection, it is likely to be based on the idea that was right before, namely this so-called chimney effect — the air rising in tall buildings. This is true in the case of old buildings, but it is not the same case in the type of construction being built today. This should be built as a passive house, and you have a completely different fire protection today, which just stops that kind of effect, and which of course takes this into account with control of excess pressure and suppression between different floors. In the plans that are now, it is illustrated how, both horizontally and vertically, you can establish your own cohorts in the new hospital building, with just the towers, if you need to isolate patients. Then it would be beneficial to be close to what is the patient treatment in today's building.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1152	What we're discussing now is the biggest plans for the whole of Hospital Norway. It is a total investment that is greater than all continental business investment in a normal year. So it's much bigger than what we can imagine. As the Council of State says, the planning has taken place since 2009, and there has been a maritime cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo. The situation we've come up with is very special, because usually every municipality will have a new hospital building. There has been a broad public debate and a professional debate that has ended with the support of the City Council, and now does not support the so-called target image of Health South-East without real investigations – and I stress: without real investigations. My question to the Council of State is: is it not in the whole process that the Ministry has decided that there should be real investigations? And shouldn't the Council of State agree with Oslo City Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1161	The answer is yes. There have been real investigations, and the Oslo City Council has delivered its opinion at the time they were a consultative body in this case – and then they supported what was conceived.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1166	I'm worried, and I use the word «infection tower», and it doesn't apply to the air – it's the lifts. On Stortinget it says that we have to take the stairs and not the lifts, because the lifts can be infectious bubbles. Sick people cannot run up and down the stairs on Gaustad. Is the council also a little worried about having so many lifts, and that sick people have to be together all the time when they're going to go up and down between the floors?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1171	The hospital’s new buildings also take into account where the patient’s flow goes. For example, outpatients will have many patients going in and out. They'll be in the vicinity of the main entrance so you just don't have to take the elevator. The lifts will mainly go to the bedposts. In particular, the patient and user committees have been very concerned about supporting precisely this design, because they believe from a patient and user perspective that having long corridors and scattered buildings creates both challenges for patients to get to the bedside and challenges to find. It's said, as I've been talking about, that this kind of relationship has been taken into account. If you, for example, with a pandemic, cohorts can be established both horizontally and vertically in the hospital to ensure that the infected patients are not mixed with other patients. I can't take responsibility for what's on the posters here in Stortinget, but in general I agree that it's a good idea on Stortinget to use the stairs even when it's not pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1178	Of course, new constructions have important benefits in terms of infectious diseases, but it is clear that the rules in force in society also apply in hospitals. Of course, having a physical distance, distance, is a good measure of infection protection. This is also said by the OYS trustees, who are mildly very skeptical of the plans for giant hospitals in Gaustad, including in terms of infectious diseases. They also say quite clearly that in order to deal with a pandemic there is a need for a hospital with good capacity and great flexibility. However, in the Gaustad project, there is no possibility of expansion – it is about compact, high and low flexibility. Does the Council of State see that the same principles of both physical distance and distance have something to do with hospital construction, just to prevent the spread of infection and to ensure that there are no dangerous situations in our hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1185	Yes, and so it will be a great advantage for the response in Oslo that we have built new hospitals, such as hospitals. provides a room for compulsiveness for patients. It gives a completely different flexibility, a completely different opportunity to ensure distance – both in regular hospital operations, where infection is also a challenge, and of course also under a pandemic. The new hospital buildings are in a completely different way adapted to this kind of situation. There is much more integrated flexibility for it, while also providing better operating situations. On Ullevål today, for example. depending on the use of self-contained buildings, because that was the old way to think about it. There's quite a lot of operational challenges in a pandemic. But in a new hospital building you can handle this in a much better way within the existing building mass, so it will be a great advantage to realize this. Existing hospital buildings in Norway today, e.g. in Haukeland, has 10 floors and manages this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1190	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1197	SV and the Center Party have stepped in to save Ullevål hospitals. Being a representative is listening to those who wear the shoes. The other parties should also listen. Oslo Toy Association, LO in Oslo, Trade Union OUS, Norwegian Toy Association and Norwegian Psychologists Association OUS want Ullevål. We in this Chamber should listen. Several parties have told the voters that they want to work for Ullevål. Oslo Right says that they want the Ullevål property to be thoroughly analyzed together with new construction on Gaustad as the basis for a final decision. Is that empty words, or will the representatives of Oslo Right vote in favour of our proposals in this matter? Oslo Arbeiderparti says that they will investigate both Ullevål and Gaustad as alternatives to a future hospital. Is that empty words, or will the representatives of the Oslo Labour Party vote in favour of our proposals in this matter? The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have decided that the Municipality of Oslo should wait for the Gaustad Plan. SV promotes the proposals that are on the table in Stortinget today. Is that empty words, or will the representatives of the Oslo Progress Party, the Oslo Christian People's Party and the Oslo Left vote for our proposals in this matter? The population needs clear, concrete answers. SV has a clear and concrete answer. We don't need a contagion tower in Oslo. We need to save Ullevål hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1215	There have been many hospital debates here, but I have never experienced that once the plans have come this far, the municipality's top body says no to the plans. It's really special. What Oslo City Council says is that one does not support the plans of Health South-East without real investigations. It's a thoughtful phrase, and it's a crushing criticism of the process that's been going on for over ten years. The proposal of the Central Party is to respect local democracy, i.e. not to go into state regulation, and to investigate continued operation on Ullevål. Why do we go in for that? Well, because the best health settings say it's better and it's cheaper. Why is it cheaper? Yes, because large parts of Ullevål hospital can be used. It's made here from the majority as if it's just scrape. Everyone can see by sight that that's not true. Now we have to start being the substance of our use of money, and that also applies in the public domain. We can't waste that the removal of Ullevål hospitals will mean. Governments talk about the concept of ‘target image’. It is an abstract concept – I never manage to keep the word ‘target image’ at hand. It is a concept which is not enshrined in the guidance given by the State at the Ministry of Health on how to implement hospital planning. Still in these discussions about hospitals, a new concept, new abstract concepts, cannot be controlled by us or by the National Audit Office. This has to end. What is the matter now is that it is added to a plan that means that there is no economic basis for it. The efficiency savings from experience are failing. It won't happen. It is all-round that the assumptions for efficiency are not being made. No, in addition, there are extra costs. It is quite logical that when such a large business moves from one location to another, it involves significant conversion costs for several years. We're not talking about savings. We are talking about increased costs that have not been taken into account, and that, when it is not taken into account, will lead to patients suffering elsewhere in the healthcare business. It's important that we now learn from what happened to Aker. Soul I agreed to vote for one to put Aker down. It was a big mistake. I'm not going to participate in any more of these decisions. We need Ullevål. We are not going to make a new mistake by putting down Ullevål Hospital. This battle is going to continue, and I am honoring Oslo City Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1228	There are many good arguments to listen to local democracy and the elected people of Oslo and go against the plans to lay down Ullevål Hospital. We know that if Ullevål is laid down, the emergency medical treatment chain is broken. In clear text critically ill and dying patients will be sent along Ring 3 from Aker to Gaustad for lifesaving treatment. This is dangerous, and it's tearing up a professional environment that's built life-saving skills over many, many decades on Ullevål. But it's another side of the matter that's become clear to us in the last few months: having a solid preparedness, having hospitals that can handle big, unforeseen events, is literally a matter of life and death. The plans to shut down Ullevål and build giant hospitals in Gaustad are the most expensive investment ever made in mainland Norway, and this is implemented without any infectious diseases being part of the planning process. We believe that the pandemic should get us all to think through both infectious diseases and how we're rigging, in a completely different way than before. Assistant Health Director Espen Rostrup Nakstad said so on NRK’s Saturday revision on March 28th: «Perhaps we need to have systems with hospitals with more space, not building heavy, high towers, but in a way having more infection protection into the way we build hospitals.» But we know that the protection and functioning of a pandemic or epidemic is not even mentioned in the risk and vulnerability analysis for the giant hospital in Gaustad. Now the Storting has to make sure it's done. Red promotes proposals for a review of morbidity plans in order to clarify whether infectious diseases are being addressed and whether the dimensioning of new buildings is suitable for the health care of the population in future pandemics. We also ask for a risk and vulnerability analysis to be carried out on infectious diseases and their function under pandemics in Oslo, and for the analysis to be able to determine whether compact high-rises are less suitable for limiting infection than other building solutions. Red, of course, agrees with the proposals to respect local democracy, so that the operation and development of Ullevål are investigated, and that the objections of Oslo City Council are answered. But before Stortinget goes in to build potential contagion towers on a narrow plot on Gaustad, Stortinget must take responsibility. I therefore hope to have broad support for the Red's proposal and to include it in our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1249	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1254	I'm not going to waste Storting's time repeating the arguments that have come up for the preservation of Ullevål and the criticism of the new plans for Gaustad. I rather assert that it seems to be a majority in the Grand Council for the plans to lay down – tear – Ullevål and build on Gaustad, while there is a majority in Oslo City Council for the opposite. Oslo City Council wants to preserve Ullevål until a new investigation has been carried out. Oslo is the regulatory authority, and then we have to expect that, in line with the majority in Oslo, Oslo City Council will say no to the regulation of the Ullevål property of dwellings when that case comes up to the autumn – we expect that this matter will come up to the autumn. This case is perhaps the most interesting and most important conflict right now, because the Planning and Building Act allows the state to use so-called state regulation, in other words: oversee Oslo municipality as a regulatory authority. In other words, Stortinget stands up here against the city council. The activists who will meet here in this room in an hour, want answers now, is whether the Minister of Health will use a state regulatory plan to oversee the majority in the Municipality of Oslo. It's the core question both for the professional community and for the activists, for those who have engaged in this matter. What happens in political Norway if the government here chooses to review Oslo Municipality as a regulatory authority? This will lead to great frustration, considerable fragmentation between the political environment in Oslo and the government – a kind of democratic failure of confidence, we can call it. Definitely, the business model will also come up with a whole new debate that we may not have seen before. I now want at the end of the debate to invite the Minister of Health to the pulpit, so he can clarify that very question for us. If the Municipality of Oslo refuses to re-regulate this plot, will he over-test the Municipality of Oslo using its state regulatory capability?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1265	Through this debate, the Centre Party and the SV's argument has been to refer to the resistance in the Municipality of Oslo. I need to make it clear that this is exactly what the Progress Party has said. This case is now located in the municipality of Oslo. It is Oslo City Council to decide whether to regulate the Gaustad or Ullevål property for the construction of a new hospital. It's not us, it's not the Storting – at least it's not going to happen today. I also think that the representative Petter Eide is asking a relevant question. It's a little ahead of its time, but if Oslo City Council would come to a conclusion that they don't want to regulate the Gaustad emptiness for hospital purposes, and the government then concludes that they want to implement a government plan, it becomes a debate and something you get to discuss here. I think the question from the representative Petter Eide is relevant and will ask me behind it. I wonder exactly the same thing: does the government now plan to implement a government plan to regulate this plot? But that's not where we are today. Today we are dealing with a proposal by a representative who does not really belong here in Stortinget. We are now awaiting treatment in Oslo City Council, which is a regulatory authority, and how they want to decide this matter further. I need to bring forward a moment that none of the other socialist parties do – significantly enough – and it is the private hospitals in Oslo, Lovisenberg and the Diakon home, which today provide good health services to many citizens here in Oslo who are pleased with it. What is important, no matter how the final solution for Oslo University Hospitals and the development plans is, is that you take care of the private hospitals and hospitals, and that they get more tasks and are viewed as an ordinary part of the health service here in Oslo – not, as you can get the impression that the left side wants, to liquidate the private or not to care for them, and that everything is about the new hospital building. It must be remembered that the private hospitals, Lovisenberg and the Diakon home, are also very important in the overall health service provided here in Oslo. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of this proposal for a representative, because we see nothing to do here in the European Parliament. But we're going to follow the situation closely and are excited about what Oslo City Council chooses to do in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1278	I think the Progress Party may have forgotten the whole matter of state regulation that is in the matter. Several representatives shift responsibility from Stortinget to the municipality. The representative of the Progress Party said that the Municipality of Oslo has regulatory power. If the Progress Party believes that the Municipality of Oslo should decide, the Progress Party should vote in favour of proposal No. 2, which is that the state should not override the Municipality of Oslo. Will the Progress Party vote in favour of the proposal, or is the empty word from this pulpit? The population needs clear, concrete answers. SV has a clear and concrete answer. It's not the state that's supposed to override the municipality. We don't have to build an infectious tower in Oslo. We need to save Ullevål hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1283	We have two proposals on this matter. One thing is that if Oslo City Council makes such a decision as the majority has now said they will do, a government regulatory plan will not be in place. I react to the fact that several parties now go from their responsibility here in Stortinget, as the Progress Party, which last year went out in the media and said that they were strongly critical of the plans that led to Oslo University Hospitals, both the choice of land, location and not least that the building loan lead to a 2.1 billion more efficiency. kr. What has happened afterwards is that one has received a lighting that has illuminated what Stortinget has not asked for, what Oslo City Council has not asked for, and which the trade union community has not asked for, because the lighting was going to take the Rikshospital down to Ullevål in a stage. It's not what has been the alternative proposal that the park hospital bill referred to, and that statement showed that it would be a cheaper solution, 20 billion. kr. This has then forgotten the Progress Party. Once they have come out of government, and could have gone with us who have fought to preserve Ullevål hospitals for a long time, so the Progress Party to owe on Oslo City Board. That's what I thought was really special. Clearly, the infection situation has made our case even more topical, and I react when the council refers to Haukeland as an example of a hospital that lives in many ethasies. Yes, there have been some ethasies in Haukeland, but above all, Haukeland, like Ullevål, has had many separate buildings, and one cannot explain physical distance with new words like cohorts – horizontal and vertical cohorts. It's kind of incomprehensible, and I have no faith in it. There are good chronicles now written by professionals who point out that pandemic plans were actually not part of the plans until the Council decided on structure. So it's good that one can say afterwards, no, we're going to have a single bed room, and we're going to have good ventilation, etc. But now we're talking about the preparedness for infection, and construction means something about how hospitals work, and construction means something about how the work on infectious diseases actually works. And again, it had been our crisis on Ullevål today if the eye department had not been in an own building when the pandemic came and one was not forbidden in the whole. There is no way to explain it in new words. So here, more parties must do what the same parties do in Oslo City Council, and support them through our proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1292	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1297	It is true that the Progress Party has been skeptical of the financial risk of the project. But when the lighting's ready and it's $12.8. kr more and takes seven years longer to build on Ullevål, giving at least some clear indications. The Progress Party was given an advantage in government, was to provide better loan conditions, and included the private hospitals, which in total make the project better. What I don't understand is how the Center Party can be so convinced that there is no financial risk associated with the Ullevål estate. The animal will be either way, and the risk will be either way. The reason why we do not support the proposal of the Central Party and SV to ban a government plan is that the matter lies with Oslo City Council. As the Minister of Health said, Oslo City Council will decide on this spring 2021. If there's a real problem about government plan, you'd better get back to it when it's actually a real problem issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1304	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1321	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1328	The forest in Norway is a major biological resource that can make an important contribution to the green shift. Forests can provide energy, new products and new industries based on a renewable resource. We have to take care of the forest. That's why a bet has to bet on 10 pst. the protection, especially for the most valuable forest. But we also need to ensure that the forest is managed and used in the green conversion we are in. If we do things right, raw materials from the forest industry can act as a substitute for fossil raw materials and contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is a great potential for good management that increases the use of our forests in sectors such as transport, industry and construction, because it is better for the climate that we build buildings in three instead of concrete. It's better that we use wood pellets than fossil as an input into the industry, and it's better that we use wood than imported soya from Brazil as feed for fish and livestock, as researchers at the Foods of Norway are doing research. Moreover, the placing on the market requirement for biofuels is important in order to ensure a reduction in climate emissions for the transport sector and represents a great opportunity for the establishment of several biofuel production plants in Norway. Forestry is the production and harvesting of a renewable resource that creates employment and value added. While there is a high potential for the management and use of our forests, we need to be aware of the role of forests in protecting biodiversity and climate change. Almost 60 pst. of all Norwegian species live in the forest. In addition, the forest protects us from extreme weather such as flood, wind and race. It cleanses the air and our earth, and it holds on earth so that it does not run away and end up in the sea. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the uptake of CO 2 from the atmosphere and the storage of carbon in living biomass and in soil is essential to limit global climate change. Today, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates that all 15-20 pst. global greenhouse gas emissions are derived from land use change and forest logging. We therefore need to conduct active agriculture based on knowledge and the extraction of resources in a sound manner. Climate change 2030 indicates that forest is the area category where there is the greatest possibility of increasing annual uptake or reducing annual greenhouse gas emissions. Nitrogen fertilisers of forests, increased plant density and forest plant processing are measures the government has already implemented, but the full potential has not yet been triggered. Now, when we reject the proposal on increasing forest use as a means of cutting greenhouse gas emissions today, it is because we expect a plan from the government to the harvest. We are painfully aware that an increasingly smaller part of the raw material from the forest is being processed in Norway, and that much is being exported unprocessed. There is a high potential for more wood-based business in Norway, and this should be exploited for increased value creation and employment. We expect the government to deliver a plan for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1348	Norway has financial problems. Last year we got the biggest deficit we've ever had in trade with the rest of the world, corrected for petroleum. In several parts of our country is 40 pst. of people of pre-employment age outside of work, and the differences between people are increasing. If we're going to be able to solve this, we need more secure, well-paid jobs across our country, and there will be construction of new forest industries as a raw material, an important and forward-looking contribution to transforming our economy. Then we have to take care of the resource that the forest is as raw material, and therefore it has to be planted. The Labour Party, in its alternative state budget, has this as one of the areas in which we want to invest in forestry policy, and has therefore provided more funds for forest planting and youth forest care. That is why we are also here today on a proposal to increase the long-term carbon bond in the forest. We hope that the government will return to the Storting with an offensive and up-to-date policy in this area, and of course that there will be a majority in favour of our proposal here today. I want to address the proposal of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1359	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1364	The government has for many years facilitated the use of the forest more actively as a contribution to the capture of CO 2 from the atmosphere and the storage of carbon. It is important to keep pressure up and make sure that this work increases in strength. That is why I would like to thank the rapporteurs for this proposal. We can do so much more, and that's exactly what the government is doing now through the Storing Message to follow up Climate Change 2030. Climate change is said to be the area category where there is the greatest opportunity to increase annual intake or reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions. The forest industry itself gives good feedback on the climate course description of the potential, and together we are going to get a big bet that makes a difference. Once again, I would like to point out that a lot has been done – such as the fertilisation of forests, among other things, which help to make the forest important for solving our climate problems. The wood-based bio-industry is an exciting and forward-looking part of forestry, and more industrial processing in Norway has a high potential. We're going to shift into the green and replace fossil energy, and this could be an even larger part of the conversion of Norwegian business. Research is also ongoing on the use of wood as protein raw material in feed for fish farming and for livestock. Making an effort to increase the Norwegian share will be an important goal in the future to work for sustainable feed worldwide. This is an incredibly exciting work. Then it becomes important in the future to follow up the arrangements that both Nysnø, Investinor, Enova and Innovation Norway have, so that we make the right decision and get the progress we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1382	I would first like to thank the Central Party, which, for once, is promoting a good proposal. We are constantly told what we should not do to save the climate; we should not drive a car, not planes, not buy new things, etc. Here is finally a climate action that many can stand behind with a good conscience. It's also good for business. The Norwegian wood industry has a great potential – just look at Hunton on Gjøvik, which takes wood from the region and presses the wood chips into insulation material, a high-quality building material. Last year the world's tallest wooden house was finished. It's in Brumunddal. Moelven Limtre, a local corner stone company, was responsible for the production and installation of the supporting glue structure. Three as building materials can get their new reindeer. WWF compares the world's forests to earth's lungs. As the Committee points out in the suspension, raw material from the forest industry can act as a substitute for fossil raw materials and reduce emissions, for example: in sectors such as transport, industry and construction. Here, some environmentalists meet themselves in the door, because the protection of forests sometimes conflicts with the reforestation, which is therefore necessary for more CO2 absorption. I think it's completely unnatural to set a percentage for the protection of forests. The value of protection for each area must be decisive, not whether a percentage is reached. We have large areas that are not suitable for commercial operations, and in that case they may be protected if an absolute protection is required. It is very interesting that this government, which is very concerned with climate action, has had a rather one-sided focus on forest protection, while the United Nations Climate Panel in its scenarios assumes that much more trees are cut and planted to meet the need for renewable carbon and to achieve basic climate targets. I have to say I am excited about how the MDG is going to vote in this case. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 1, where the Storting asks the Government to submit a plan to increase the long-term carbon uptake in Norwegian forest areas, including a plan for forest planting. The Progress Party will not vote in favour of the proposal to set up a green investment company for the development of enterprises based on green carbon. As of today, we have Nysnø AS and Investinor, we have Enova and the environmental technology system in Innovation Norway. This should last.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1395	The Korona crisis has given several of us many opportunities to travel in the forest this spring. It has been a fantastic experience – photosynthesis, a basic assumption of the green shift, experienced in close proximity. Great opportunities are literally outside our door. Unfortunately, in the Norwegian climate debate it is often more about bans and charges than about opportunities. I see exactly the same trend when we debate forests as climate action – for some, the problems are far greater than the possibilities. The end of the show is that things are done quickly. The long-term nature of forests as climate action suggests that we should start yesterday, but here we are in the opposite situation. It can't go on like that. The forest is a renewable resource, we depend on harvesting natural resources as we have always done, but of course it should be done in a proper way within a sustainable framework – which we know is possible. Today's crisis has shown us one more thing, that Norway's dependence on oil and gas in the North Sea is very challenging. In a market with falling oil prices and a world where future energy and value creation will no longer come from black carbon, Norway is facing extensive transformations. The green shift must now actually be filled with content, measures and instruments. The forest is a natural place to begin, and the time is now. We're lucky to be quiet. Norway has a unique position – rich in clean power, large renewable natural resources at sea and not least to land, resources that we have a long history of using and managing for the joy of future generations. It is therefore gratifying to see that the Committee endorses the description that the forest has an important role to play in climate policy. Nevertheless, it is too passive when you do not choose to translate this into concrete action, with a plan to increase the long-term uptake of carbon from forest. Now I heard that it might go against a majority for that, and that's good. This would have shown that the forest does not get the recognition it represents as a climate action – despite the fact that active forestry will significantly increase carbon uptake and is crucial to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. In its scenarios, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change assumes that much more trees are cut and planted to meet the need for renewable carbon and to achieve basic climate objectives. We have a chance to do that. Forest investment as climate action will also help to provide the basis for new jobs and value creation across the country. However, it requires a real effort to build up knowledge environments and new Norwegian industries based on three as raw materials. If this does not happen, Norway will continue to become an even more commodity-exporting nation. Although the Green Investment Company proposal does not receive a majority today, it is gratifying to see that the Council of State takes further account of the government's climate plan. But there's reason to remember that this is urgent. Today's forest and wood industry, based on the forest, is under pressure. The Korona crisis has reinforced that situation – we are at risk of losing jobs, skills, markets and technology if we do not have enough tools in the toolbox and an active policy to further develop this industry and these industries. I'll bring it, on behalf of the Center Party, up proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1412	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1417	Some brief comments on the representative proposal: For SV, it is a little unclear where the premise for this discussion comes from, that Norway’s main climate contribution is the forest. It is not a problem at all. The sea has a much larger uptake of CO 2 than the forest. So to establish that it's the forest that's Norway's most important climate contribution, I wonder where it comes from. But the fact that the forest is an important climate contribution, is quite right, and that letting the forest stand increases the absorption of CO 2, is also quite right. But then the question of planting increases the climate contribution. It's not safe, because we know it can damage the vegetation. It could also distort grazing land and the area in use, which we know has a lot of uptake. The question is, when does the new plant forest have a higher uptake of CO 2 than existing pasture? That's the fact that there's a great deal of uncertainty about it. So the question is, are we going to use the area that we should otherwise use to make Norway more self-sufficient, by planting forest there? Then we're going into a very serious land policy for the country, and because SV is such a plant strategy for forest insecure, and we can't simply go into a strategy and a plan for it. It rests on very vague science. On the other hand, we found that the very last proposal in the draft representative, which concerns investment companies, is completely in line with what we have previously addressed as a party. It is obvious that forests and wood can play a very exciting role in the time to come, both industrially and on the climate side. Similarities, for example, that can be extracted from wood, have leading properties that can now be used in a battery. So from Norwegian technology, based on Norwegian forest, Ein looks at the contours of the development of bio-based battery. This will be great progress for the globe, for the forest and for the Norwegian industry in the future. So thinking much more offensively than the government of the moment has laid down, we think we're completely in place, and proposal no. 3 can join.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1437	There is no doubt that forests have an important role to play in climate policy, both nationally and globally. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the uptake of CO 2 into the atmosphere and the storage of carbon in living biomass and in soil are essential to limit global climate change. Climate change 2030 indicates that forest is the area category where there is the greatest possibility of increasing annual uptake or reducing annual greenhouse gas emissions. The Christian People's Party believes that more active forestry should be facilitated while protecting particularly valuable forest areas and safeguarding biodiversity. Growth in Norwegian forests is significantly greater than the peak. It contributes to carbon capture, but also shows the potential to create greater values based on forest resources. A smaller proportion of forest raw material is processed in Norway than before, and a large proportion of forest raw material is exported unprocessed. There is a high potential for more wood-based business in Norway, and this space for increased value creation and employment should be used. Raw material from the forest industry can act as a substitute for fossil raw materials and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, for example: in sectors such as transport, industry and construction. Wood may also be used as protein raw material for feed for the fish farming industry and for livestock, and there is a growing need here. The placing on the market of biofuels has given a market for the establishment of several plants for its production in Norway. This is an example of initiatives that contribute to more wood-based bioindustry in Norway and that may reverse the negative trend with less industrial processing in Norway. Almost 60 pst. of all Norwegian species live in the forest. Forests are therefore of great importance for Norway’s biodiversity, and it is important that the forest is managed in such a way that business interests and biodiversity are well balanced. We have a tradition of that in Norway, and that is also the government's policy. The size target of 10 pst. the protection of the forest area has been so far successful, and it is sad to see that two lots, the Centre Party and the Advance Party, are using this opportunity to distance themselves from that protection objective. A success factor has been that this has been done through a voluntary scheme whereby landowners themselves offer forest land for protection against being paid compensation for relinquishing the right to forestry in the connected areas. Although the scheme has been a success, it is nevertheless important to stress that there is an unfortunate accumulation of protection in some geographical areas that make it difficult for the local forest industry. It has a set in parts of Northern Ireland, and it can make it more difficult to achieve the goal. Then there was nothing more to wait for than that the opposition believes the government is too passive in forestry policy, and that protection generally increases the commitment of active forestry. It was not my impression that the Minister of Agriculture and Food has just allocated extra funds to thinning in the forest. The government is pursuing an active policy in this area, which we are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1462	Active forestry is both industrial policy and good climate policy. I'm glad that many in the Storting agree on this and are busy with just this. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states that the contribution of forests to global climate change will be crucial. The most important thing is that the forest through photosynthesis sucks CO 2 out of the atmosphere. In addition, we can use forest raw materials rather than fossil raw materials, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions from other sectors. Examples include biofuels, energy production and increased use of wood in buildings and installations. Every year, Norwegian forests account for a net CO 2 capture of almost 30 million tonnes. It corresponds to more than half of the total Norwegian climate emissions. Nevertheless, points such as: Climate change by 2030 indicates that there is a high potential to increase carbon capture in Norwegian forests through active forest management. Here the government and the forest owners are doing well. From 2016 we have granted funds for denser plantings after the cutting, fertilisation of forests and better processing of forest plants. These are reasonable measures with a high climate impact. The Environment Directorate and the Directorate-General for Agriculture have also evaluated a pilot scheme for the planting of forest on new areas, and they believe that this scheme can be scaled up because of its effectiveness. These measures provide a significant increase in growth and thus increase uptake. I mean, we can do even more of that. In the course of the year, the government will continue to present a major report on the climate action. This notification shall include a separate plan for the forest and land sectors. Now I'm not going to pre-shoot what the content of this plan is, but we're now considering new measures that can make more contributions either in the form of increased admission or reduced emissions. But I also record that there is a majority in the Chamber for a plan of my own, and I have to deliver it. In Norwegian timber, there has been a lot of exciting developments in recent years. We have a variety of companies and schemes to support and stimulate new green business. We have Nysnø, Investinor, Enova and the environmental technology development system at Innovation Norway. That's good, and I mean we're going to use in the active forestry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1483	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1488	There is often talk in this discussion and also in the government setting its goal of protecting 10 pst. of the forest. For me this has been a little bit unclear: 10 pst. of what? Is that the productive forest? Or is it the total forest? I just hope that the Council of States can clarify: what is the protection measure for forests, and what is the status per day?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1493	It's like you have a measure of being able to protect 10 pst. of the forest. At the same time, we know that when we take out forests and plants new in a growing season, that's when the biggest recording is. Then I think it should be possible to take protection considerations while at the same time having a goal of having a larger forestry and an active forestry that makes use of the resources that are both climate-friendly, that create industry, and that actually makes use of the forest as a carbon bonding function.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1498	I ask the question to the Minister for Forest Affairs, and my question is very simple and straightforward: it is a goal of protecting 10 pst. Of the forest, and then I wonder if it's of the total amount of forest in Norway, or if it's the productive forest. In case, how much more must one protect before reaching this 10 pst. target? The government has gone high on the track with this 10 pst. goal – there was a big deal in the debate. So I think that the Council of State that is set to implement this policy needs to know how far we have left, and how far we have come. So my question is very specific: is the goal of government 10 pst. the protection of the total forest or productive forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1503	Now there are two state councils responsible for this. One is the Minister for Climate and Environment, the other is the Minister for Agriculture. As Minister of Agriculture, I am concerned that we are going to use the forest for economic development and for climate change. It's going to be part of the climate accounting we have for our country. We know that it's just like the lungs, as the United Nations says, and I, as an intensive nurse, am concerned about, it binds CO2. We're going to protect the part that's protective. But it must not at all times be at the expense of what is possible to process from the forest, precisely as far as I feel that the representative is concerned, to take out forestry also in a business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1510	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1517	The centre party is engrossed in climate policy that works. Forest planting and use of forests are climate policies that work. It's disappointing to see the absence of those who usually like to keep the environment tab very high - how absent they are when we discuss these things, because it's not small things. In 2017, it was calculated that 60 pst. of Norway's total emissions were bound in forests, vegetation and soil. There's more than most other measures that we can take, it's possible to increase, and it's a very sophisticated technology, but it's natural, and it's just to plant to achieve this. Therefore, it is very good that there will be a plurality in the staging room today for such a plan to use the forest in the long term to increase the absorption of carbon. Then I have to name one of the subtle things that stand in the setting - it's not often a drag on the smiley tape by reading the settings for big stuff - where the Progress Party and the Center Party write: ‘These members refer to the fact that since 2013 the Solberg Government has significantly protected rather than active use.’ I think it is a bit nice that the Progress Party is involved in such a comment, and I would like to remind you that during this period they have had three agriculture ministers – Bård Hoksrud, Jon Georg Dale and Sylvi Listhaug – and it is regrettable that they have seen protection over active use. If we're going to achieve the Norwegian climate targets, we need to actively use the forest, and it's not like there's a contradiction between biological deficiency and using the forest in a climate context. It's about doing it the right way and the smart way. What I too often experience is that when the protection interests get on the track, we say yes, we are busy using the forest – but in reality one is not. Today we saw that the otherwise business-oriented SV representative who was on the speaker's chair was a bit of a spat, I thought, because it is clear that there is a conflict between industry, traditional environmental protection and climate policy. Then I think it is important that a venturer should have a clear voice, and I am happy that at least the Labour Party and the Progress Party – together with the Centre Party – take climate responsibility today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1535	The last speaker made a good contribution, which I can fully agree with on behalf of the Christian People's Party, and which shows that there is a close relationship between the Center Party and the Christian People's Party as two parties engaged in district industries, including forestry. It is also government's policy to balance forestry so that it takes into account both biodiversity and forest exploitation as a resource to produce products that take us into the green shift. But I still have to remind you that on page 3 of the setting you have the following: ‘The majority of the committee, all except the member of the Socialist Left Party, considers increased focus on planting to be positive, and that it is a challenge that it takes too long or that it is not replanted in areas where it has been highest, even if the forest owner is required to do so.’ It's going to be interesting to see what the opposition is going to do in terms of offensive and good forest policy. Is it the Center Party or the SV that should have the last word?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1553	I first want to thank you for the commitment to the forest. That means we're going to have a use and not a consumption. The use of the forest means that we bind CO 2. If we consume the forest and we don't plant new plants, we don't have lungs that can absorb CO2. And getting a good forest doesn't have a short perspective. It takes well over half a life, or more than that, before one has available forest, 50, 60, maybe more years than that. That there's a great commitment in the hall for this is good. But I also want to remind Stortinget that this hall has decided a lot in this period – about forest roads, about timber brands, about planting and about fertilisation. There are companies that were mentioned from this pulpit, like the company Hunton, who have moved home to Norway, precisely because the conditions for this had improved in our country. So it's not like this government hasn't arranged for an active forest industry. So I want to say in the end: in the middle of the debate on the use of Norwegian forest, which I think is very important, we also have to take into account the seriousness, that in other parts of the world has an abused forest for other purposes, which makes us struggling climateally. That's why we're going to run a forest management that takes out forests, plants new and processes wood varieties into the climate change we have, so that we get the most absorption of CO 2 and the best possible wood to use in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1572	I am pleased that the representative Pollestad made it clear that the Progress Party has had agricultural ministers who have been busy using the forest and the resource that the forest is, like today's Minister of Agriculture from the Christian People's Party. There is a completely different state council from a completely different party, namely the Left, which has been concerned with protecting the most possible forest, and what is in the forest, among other things. predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1577	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1594	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1601	First, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their very good cooperation in dealing with the matter. Today we are discussing a proposal from the SV on sustainable tourism fishing. They promote four different proposals aimed at strengthening security and resource control in tourist fishing and ensuring that tourist fishing contributes more to local value creation. The tourist fishing industry has been through significant growth for several years and contributes to important jobs and value creation along the coast. In order to strengthen and ensure this industry, it is important that the activity is carried out in a safe and sustainable manner. Tourists demand travel products where fishing their own fish is part of the experience. Tourist fishing has become an attractive product for which there is a high demand, mainly from foreign operators and guests. The Committee agrees that the tourism industry has the potential to contribute to further coastal value creation, but also sees that there are some unfortunate consequences of increased tourist fishing and that regulations in the industry would be appropriate. With effect from 1 January 2018, new rules were introduced by the Minister for Fisheries and Food of the Progress Party for tourist fishing activities. In the past, there was less an overview of the industry and the resource take-off that came with it. The main elements of the new legislation were requirements for the registration of tourist fishing activities and the fishing reporting system for tourist fishing activities, the export quota was changed to 20 kg for guests in registered holdings and 10 kg for export quota for all others, the trophies scheme was removed and the export quota was amended to apply within seven calendar days. In addition, in a letter dated 25 April 2019, the Advocate General gave instructions that the applicable fines should be doubled with immediate effect, so that the minimum rate is set at a fine of NOK 8 000 and then increased by SEK 200 per kilogram of fish or fishery product. The current Minister for Fisheries, Harald Tom Nesvik of the Advance Party, sent out on 6 January this year, after consultation, proposals to amend the regulation on tourist fishing, with a number of measures. Proposals Nos. 2 and 3 of the draft representative are part of the government's proposal for action. The hearing period was 17 February of this year. The Progress Party has taken the challenges of the tourist fishing industry seriously. We took several measures while we were in government, and started consultation, so that the industry could participate and make suggestions on how best to regulate tourist fishing. Proposal No. 1 in the draft representative shall be taken into account in the notification. St. 30 for 2018-2019 and the work on whether more stringent requirements should be imposed on hirers and hirers of recreational craft is already under way by the Maritime Directorate. The hearing shows that the issue of tourist fishing is actively being addressed, and the Progress Party believes it would not be natural to make decisions in the Stortinget while the government is reviewing the answers. The Progress Party will therefore not support the proposals at this stage but will await the follow-up of the consultation by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1624	The fish is one of our finest resources. It shall not be possible to steal, take out too much or commit environmental crime. Therefore, it is important to have a balance when developing the tourist fishing industry, because it is an industry that creates important jobs and activity along our coast – fine activities. It's also an industry that's been growing over time. Many people are doing a very important and good job, and they're serious. The challenge is that too many people are not serious. That is why we need to discuss it in the Storting and take action. There will be a time after the coronary crisis. Although this season is going to be different, there will be a need for tourist industry also within tourist fishing again. Travel life is now in great crisis. This means that there are many players who have difficulties, including those involved in tourist fishing. There won't be foreign tourists coming here this summer, and then we'll have to do everything we can for these businesses, but also for the whole travel life, to make sure that we have a lot of uphill businesses in travel when we get back on foot. As far as tourist fishing is concerned, we discussed it just a year ago. There have been more fisheries ministers at the time than there have been measures by the government. It's a challenge, and I think it's regrettable. We have to make it so that it won't be easy, it won't be possible to cheat in this industry. It has to be a serious, proper industry that treats our raw material properly. Then we need to strengthen control. We have to have more frequent checks to find out what's happening that's illegal. The Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, has proposed to investigate a system whereby tourist fishermen can be required to deliver fish to local reception. It's important, and I had hoped that the whole business committee could have supported it, and thus the whole Stortinget. We have also asked for an action plan to be put in place to prevent illegal tourist fishing. It's also something I thought we could be together about, because it's important to take this seriously, and it's going too slowly. It's too small, and it's too late. I think that now the opposition – at least parts of the opposition, the part that might be the opposition in Stortinget – has promoted constructive proposals. I had hoped that we could be together about them. With that, I address the proposals made by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1637	The representative Cecilie Myrseth then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1642	I can largely subscribe to the comments of the last speaker relating to the tourism fishing business. Everyone in this room wants us to secure value creation and jobs based on the local resources we have, and create activity and employment across the country. At the same time, this should be done within a sustainable framework. The proposal for a document 8, which we are debating today, comes at the same time as the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries is in the process of tightening up the legislation on tourism fishing. So I'm glad that the proposal is coming, so that we can discuss it again and put the search light on it, and make it clear that there's a total magnification that wants this to happen, but that it has to be done in proper forms. It is a valuable contribution to local activity and travel life based on local competence. At the same time, we have also had very many unfortunate outcomes. Nevertheless, this is often driven in a proper way — the most expensive fish landed in Norway — and contributes to local value creation. The ministry is now doing a job here, and central to it is regulating exports, the control point that is easiest to regulate in order to keep fishing within the natural framework. It seems reasonable to require delivery to a fisherman. However, in practice it is not possible in large parts of the country. In many cases, the distance between the tourist establishments and a local fisherman is too long to be able to do so in practice, without the tourist business itself becoming a fisherman and having to draw up final notes for its own guests. Most people see that it can be a challenge. An action plan has been requested to prevent illegal tourist fishing. It is difficult to see that there is widespread illegal tourist fishing, since everyone is allowed to fish for their own use, and it is only if the fish is traded that there are limits and those limits are relatively high. No exceedance of those limits has been demonstrated. There are separate tool choices rules for foreigners who fish as tourists. Some years ago, some violations of these tool rules were documented, but even there are few documented breaches in recent years. There have been documented attempts at cross-border exports of quantities. There has now been increased focus and control and increased fines, as the rapporteur has mentioned. In addition, the new proposal is now ready for consultation and implementation. At least I want to introduce the outlined measures first, before we create a new action plan, and then we all agree that the most important thing is the measures. The amount of export offences is difficult to say for certain, but as an example it can be mentioned that in an action in weeks 38 and 39 last year 150 cars with tourist fishermen were stopped, and there was one who had broken the legislation – but in return strongly. Since there is now an effective consultation and a proposal clear in the ministry, a decision here today, as I believe it, would only delay the process. Therefore, the right will not support the proposals as they appear today, and will implement the process in which the ministry is now involved and see the impact of these measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1659	The center party wants activity in the districts. This thing about tourist fishing is a kind of activity that's been working over the years. It wasn't obvious that you had to be able to get people to come to e.g.. Hasvik for fishing. I was so lucky to have brought the nutrition committee to the municipality. We tried to fish a little bit, and there was a lot of fish. Not everyone was as good at taking care of the fish, so it took some time, but it shows that the potential is great, and that it's very polite. In some areas there are some tourists who want to fish just for the experience, get a large fish, halibut, cod or whatever it may be, and they are cordially welcome. Then there's someone who's coming and going to have it like a so-called food fish; they're freezing down, taking it with them, and they're going to earn a little bit of it. You don't want them. Control is the keyword here. It is not only on land that control is important, but also on the sea. Tourist fishermen tend to get in the way of professional fishermen. Then it has to be checked in a good way how to do it. There's no control here. The centre party has been involved in a proposal where you look at a system where you want to get the fish delivered to Kaia. In my municipality there are actually more tourist boats than there are professional boats. Then such a measure can contribute to job creation on land as well. How to do that in terms of quotas and things like that, I don't know, you have to figure that out. I fully agree with the Labour Party that this proposal should be examined, that one looks at how to get the fish on land and that it is handled by professionals, so that this customs that is now is avoided. I wish everyone could take part in such an action. It could create jobs, and that would also lead to full control of what's happening. Then it is important that the government looks at a plan of action to prevent illegal tourist fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1672	Tourist fishing has been a field that has created great debate over the last major periods. I'm going to think it's going to fit into the line of the most pleasant debates? At least it looks like that. It began to a large extent in the previous growing period, when we in SV presented a series of proposals for tourist fishing. Several parties joined many of the proposals, and there was a very debate about it. This proposal was presented in December, and when the department came up with the hearing letter in February, it was very uplifting. Many of the challenges we have pointed out over a long time are directly addressed by the Ministry's proposals. We don't know where the department of the seventh and last will land, but the rate of the letter of hearing from the department is positive. So, instead of one taking fish out of the country every seven days? which is a limitation from before, where one could do it at each pass – does one consider to include it at once a year, so that no one speculates about doing it over and over again and makes it some kind of nourishment in itself? a system which is actually aimed at tourism, not at industry. Not least, one wants to tighten up the requirement, or one requests to tighten the requirement, that a person can only take fish out of the country if he is taken through a registered tourist fishing establishment. It is a fantastically important proposal, and it will just meet what we have in mind, by channelling this tourism into serious, registered, approved enterprises – local businesses. In this way, a much more professional tool is given, a much more control over the output, which has a much greater chance of getting better safety at sea. And then does one avoid the kind of cowboy business that we've seen a lot of examples along the coast? because one did not have a code for this with actors coming from other countries, who have boats that are not at all able to meet the sea in which to fish, and who send tourists out on their first boat trip roughly. We see this in accident statistics. It's a positive development that's now happening. It has been an industry that has been out of control, and it also asks for the letter of hearing in many ways. In the future, we have to channel this into safe forms, it will raise the value of all, and it will be to the benefit of those who are serious, as there are also many of them along the coast. And we're going to have a lot more control over the output, because until now no one knows how much fish have been taken in this way. I accept the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1689	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1694	Norway has been listed several times as one of the world’s best destinations. Natural attractions such as pure nature and clean fjords are some of the brands that are involved in raising the quality and attractiveness of a chalked market, a market that demands green travel life and green travel destinations, and which is committed to? Not only for industry itself, but also for Norway as a nation? to provide for the future. Travel is an industry that has growth potential over most of Norway’s countries, and tourist fishing is an important part of this travel life. The tourist fishing industry may have the potential to further contribute to the creation of value across the coast, to provide light in the houses and to ensure a scattered settlement provided that it appears attractive. But increased tourist fishing can also have unfortunate consequences. That's exactly what Left has been focusing on for many, many years. For a long time, we have thought that tourist fishing needs to be regulated more stringently, and my colleague, Vera Lysklätt, addressed this issue already in 2009 with Mr Pedersen, Minister for Fisheries at the time. The debate was not so different from the one we now have. The activity must take place in a safe and sustainable way, and we all agree on that. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the SV proposers for this proposal, because it helps to keep the debate alive. I think it is good that from 1 January 2018 new rules were introduced for tourism fishing activities, and there are requirements for registration of the tourism activity and the fishing reporting system for tourist fishing establishments, where export quotas were changed to 20 kg – and to 10 kg for all others. The trophy fishing system was removed and the export quota was changed to apply within a period of seven calendar days. Although the government made some changes to the legislation in 2018, that is not enough. It is therefore positive that it is proposed to amend the current regulation further, so that it is only possible to take fish out of the country if one has fished and stayed in a registered tourist establishment. Such a scheme will help to provide a better overview of the withdrawal of fish from the sea by tourist fishing. The action will also contribute to further professionalisation and legitimacy of the tourist fishing industry and strengthen the competitive situation of serious, registered tourist establishments. The current legislation that allows us to take the fish fillet out of the country contributes to a significant food loss. We can't have it like that, and it's positive that the government has taken the initiative that new export quotas should only allow the export of whole fish. We in the left have a expectation that when the new rules are in place, they will apply. Travel life, with its growth in recent years, has also played a significant role as a national industry, confirming that travel life is an industry for the future. As with other tourism, tourist fishing has been growing for several years and has contributed to important jobs and value creation along the coast. There are more than 1000 registered actors to strengthen and secure that industry. It is therefore important that the activity is carried out in a safe and sustainable manner. We also owe it to future generations and fish in the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1707	In the last two months, the coronary apathy has turned upside down on the vast majority of Norwegian business. Unfortunately, this applies more to the tourism industry than to most other sectors of the economy. The representative proposal from SV, which we are dealing with today, was delivered long before the coronary apathy hit us, and must be seen in the light of that. The proposal was promoted in the best possible sense, with the aim of preventing large quantities of fish from being taken out of the country — outside the control of the authorities and, in part, after wasting resources in sloppy processing of the fish before the tourists leave Norway. The objective of a well-regulated tourist fishing and the export of fish in a manner that is adequately controlled and that does not lead to waste of resources is also shared by the Christian People's Party and the other government parties. Nevertheless, it is clear that good management of fishing resources needs to be balanced against serious tourist fishing establishments operated in line with current legislation, which contribute to jobs and value creation in District Norway, and which unfortunately face a very difficult high season. With regard to the existing proposals from SV, we would like to point out that this case designates itself as something special. Indeed, most of the substance of the four proposals promoted in Document 8: 21 S for 2019-2020 has already been consulted. It is the result of an initiative by the then Fisheries Minister from the Progress Party, Harald Tom Nesvik, who also wanted to clear up the undesirable conditions surrounding tourism fishing in Norway. In the letter of hearing, which was sent out on 6 January of this year, it was asked, among other things. providing feedback on the following proposals: Access to fish taken out of the country shall only be granted if the tourist has fished and stayed in a registered tourist fishing establishment. The right to export the permitted quota of fish is changed from once a week to once a year. The export quota will be changed from allowing the export of the file to allow only whole fish that are eviscerated and head-capped. A system of authorisations for tourist fishing schemes shall be established, which requires a legislative amendment clarifying permit conditions if the measure is implemented. The proposals contained in the letters of consultation of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries are far-reaching and, as has been said, well in line with the proposals made by the SV in document 8:21 S. The Government Parties show in their comments that these proposals have been out of the way of consultation and that the replies to the hearing are now being evaluated by the Ministry. We therefore believe, like our government partners, that the right thing to do then is to await the conclusions of the department until after the consultation round. We will therefore not support the proposals from the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1732	Tourist fishing has been discussed several times from this pulpit in recent years. It's been a subject that has created a lot of attention and strong feelings. This is also part of what is involved in the sustainable management of our fish stocks. Yes, unfortunately, fish are smuggled on the borders. We've seen a lot of examples of that. There are unwanted and illegal acts, and the government is doing something about them. We aim at new measures that can contribute to better control of tourist fishing. But we have to keep trying to get better and make it harder for those who are dealing with illegalities. We're going to make it possible for serious, registered tourist companies to run a sustainable business. It will be a competitive advantage, for many demand sustainable tourism. We need to be careful to beat the legs of good and serious tourist fishermen who contribute to the creation of value in small coastal communities. We must strive to offer tourists an experience without being dependent on attracting them to Norway just to fish as much as possible. It is desirable to focus more on experience and less on quantity fishing. The Ministry has conducted a hearing in winter and received more than 140 hearings — it confirms the high level of involvement in this matter. In the hearing, the Government sets out a more restrictive line. Among other things, it is proposed to allow only the export of fish for persons fishing in the direction of registered activities – which is in line with one of the proposals in the proposal for a representative. This proposal is also widely supported in the consultation round. The government wants a more restrictive line with regard to tourist fishing. At the same time, it is also important that the measures we adopt are feasible to implement in practice and that they contribute to achieving this objective. We must avoid creating stricter rules that will only lead to the most serious and good businesses being hit unnecessarily hard, while those who are involved in illegal smuggling can continue to operate. We are now in the final phase of summarising the consultation and will soon conclude on the various proposals for action and come back to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1749	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1754	We also had a case where we discussed this last year. Then there was another minister, but I'm glad that this minister also says it's important to do something about the challenges we have. Even then, the opposition wanted to do more, to put in place more stringent measures. It was voted down. Then we all know how summer was, and more people probably got their eyes up. It's interesting that the Left, which is also a government party, will refer to what they did in opposition 14 years ago, rather than what they're actually doing now. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is: why is it a bad idea to decide that we should have a plan of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1761	I understand that it is popular both to investigate and to make action plans. What is the reality is that the government is in the process of implementing the concrete measures, for which I believe this is a very broad support. The letter of hearing is an expression for that. We are now summarizing the answers we have received, and we believe that what comes out will be very good steps that can be taken instead of spending too much time on a new action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1766	Now we're not going to take a long round on the need to figure out whether or not. I think the Business Committee knows very well that when it comes to fisheries policy, investigation is very important at the moment. I have one question. It is to one of the proposals that we have made, and it is about delivering fish to local reception. Does the Minister for Fisheries think that this is a good measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1773	Today there is a ban on the marketing of fish for tourists, and what is a bit of the point here is to get the best possible control measures without too much bureaucracy. We think that that proposal might conflict with the current legislation, and that a number of practical questions will arise as to how to solve that issue. That is why we are concerned about the measures we have promoted in the letter of consultation and which are now being considered. Instead of further investigating, I think it would be good steps to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1780	Now I'm a little uncertain about whether there are different measures coming, or whether everything is completed and therefore can also be presented. My impression now is that the Minister for Fisheries rejects that this is a good idea, and then my question is: have you investigated it as a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1785	The proposal to which Mr Myrseth refers has not been supported by the Committee, and that is perhaps good reason. It is not a proposal that we have examined, nor is it a proposal that we are going to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1790	There has been a great commitment to hearing these proposals that the government has been listening to. I would, like the previous replicator, point to proposal No. 1, to find a system where you can be required to deliver fish to local fish recipients. This will not be suitable for every place in the country, but it may be possible to find practical solutions in this particular place in the country. Then I don't understand the resistance to seeing if this can be possible, because then a few fish will enter into more controlled forms, and one will be able to contribute to more local value creation on the fish. Will the Council of State consider the measure contained in proposal No? 1?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1797	I have just answered that question. That measure has been assessed, but it has not been included in the letter of consultation because we believe there are other measures that are more important to implement. I have mentioned several of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1802	The preceding replicators were very concerned with imposing, imposing and imposing. In the letter of consultation, the industry was well asked how to take more care of the raw material and, above all, the residue – is that not true?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1808	Yes, that's right, and it's also working to look at how to take care of the residue. Some more detailed answers than that I don't have, but it's one of the elements in the assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1813	As a proposer, I appreciate the fact that the department is already following up proposals for representatives before they are discussed in Stortinget, with a letter of appeal, where it is very interesting. But there was also much that was interesting to say to the Right Council of State, for example. the possibility of setting conditions for becoming a tourist fishing establishment, i.e. a type of concession scheme. Can the Council of State say a little bit about what kind of terms you're looking at here?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1820	I agree with the intention of the question, but then the question is how complicated to do it. You have to have a concession scheme or a slightly simpler registration system. That's just some of what we're evaluating in the department right now. And maybe we'll rather not that if it makes things a little bit simpler, we'll try to get to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1825	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1832	After listening to the line change, I think that the football player Erling Braut Haaland may have a good conscience to give a short answer – that can also be said by the Minister for Fisheries. There's nothing wrong with it, but I think it's important to listen to good recordings. I have also tried to listen to the exchange of words that has been on proposal No. 1, and I understand that what may be the problem is the wording that a ‘can be required to deliver fish to local fish recipients’. What is contained in this proposal, on the part of the Centre Party, is not necessarily a strong desire to impose or force anyone to do anything, but to find solutions in a cooperation between the fishing tourism companies and local fisheries recipients. The size travels on study tours. The Industry Committee has, as part of a longer journey in Finnmark, studied tourist fishing. There was a lot of fish. The members of the committee were supposed to happen to the file. It mostly went beyond the fingers of some Right People and that kind of thing. After one filet was a rental and went in the shower and for dinner – and the representative Geir Adelsten Iversen stood standing and cut 70 kg filet. Not everyone is out on tourist fishing with a Geir Adelsten Iversen. Not everyone is equipped with a centre party, and then having an agreement to deliver to local fish recipients and get an organized solution for it can be a good suggestion. It is only what we want the Minister for Fisheries to assess in this regard. Otherwise we're happy with what's on our ears, and we're so pleased with many of the recordings and signals that come here today, but we think we have a proposal that's quite good and that I think can be accepted along the coast. That is why we propose it and hope that the government party will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1841	After listening to the questions and so on, it is clear that here a letter has been sent out where there are a lot of options. There is a considerable amount of tension drawn in different actions. The voltage is from the fact that nothing can happen, so that very much can happen. In the proposal we are discussing here, the whole purpose is to gain control of the extraction of the natural resource. Imagine that no one knows how much fish are taken from the tourist fishing in Norway today – none! It has been pointed out from professional teams for many years, but nothing has been done. We have a fisheries agreement with Russia where we can't say for sure how much is taken out of this part of the fishing. Nevertheless, they accept that 7 000 tonnes are what is in the agreement — and for so long. So there is no control over the extraction of resources. One has no control over the boats and the vessels with which tourists are taken out to sea, or what kind of people they take out to sea, or about those who send them out to sea, know the sea. We don't even know who runs these companies. They're not registered, they're not approved, there's no arrangements for this. At the same time, the requirements that are imposed on professional fishermen have shots in the weather. Under the route to, among others: The party of progress has introduced new requirements and still new control systems for proper fishermen, while one has allowed tourist fishing companies and unprofessional operators to go free. They can even take large quantities out of the country – everyone knows which border crossings you can cross, where there is no control. It has our realities. The epistle has been sent out in a situation where, unfortunately, this industry has received an unlikely reputation. It's not because of the serious actors; it's because of all the unprofessional ones. It has frames the serious actors then to the degrees. They've become defenders of this system. Those who have done things properly have had to defend a system that has been exploited by many unprofessional actors. Once, I took the plane from Oslo to Tromsø and happened to be sitting next to two Britons. They were part of a big crowd. They had rented a house on the outside of Senja, and they did so every year. They rented some boats and went out to sea. And, as the one said, they self-funded the whole trip by bringing a lot of fish home on the plane, normally. There was no control. That's how they'd been doing it for years, there was a tradition in that bunch of friends. It was unlikely fun, there were nice people, but it says itself that it can't go on. Here we need a system. Either it's friends who use our oceans that way, or it's organized criminal environment that operates roughly in an industrial way, we have to come to this life, and it's urgent. It's good that one is at least a little bit busy, but we don't know what department lands on: everything or nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1854	Sometimes when you hear some people from the red-green opposition, you'd think that they were just cowboys in the tourist fishing industry. Actually, it's not. Most of them are sober and honest, trying to create a living of the resources you have. Much of what is now proposed in this proposal for a document 8 is reasonably well taken care of in the consultation process initiated by the then Fisheries Minister Harald Tom Nesvik. The industry responds well to the letter of hearing, and is perhaps the best one to know where the shoe prints. So you have to have such a big business to take credit for some of the actions that may come, in many cases can be very unfortunate. When Knag Fylkesnes says that there is a positive development: it is actually a positive development that was started when the Progress Party was in government, and as the government is following up today. The continued promotion of new requirements for professional fishermen, but not for tourist fishermen, is not at all rooted in reality. In particular, in January 2018 a significant amount of requirements were also introduced for tourist fishermen, and we have also launched a consultation round with the industry to look at new measures. But then it's important that the measures are targeted and correct, and that you don't make things worse for the serious actors in the industry. So just a little comment on the committee tour that we had in Hasvik. It was a very pleasant trip. It is a fantastic area, Hasvik, and Hasvik Municipality and South Island, but there were considerable amounts of residue that unfortunately went to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1867	I understand that if the nutrition committee goes to Finnmark one more time, enough Geir Adelsten Iversen will be invited! It was just a small remark about the proposal to investigate a system of imposing a supply on fish recipients. In particular, it may be the word ‘placing’ that is a little problematic. I am sure you can manage to find good arrangements for the delivery of fish that are caught, without having to order it. So it's also important to say that this is a small tab of what's about sustainable management of our fish stocks. It is very good that you have a broad consensus, and now there are good measures that can provide better control of the tourist fishing that has taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1878	There is a lot I could say about the trip to Hasvik, but most of it has been said. What you could say is that it's about residue. We have quite strict requirements for fishermen on how to treat the fish and the residue. Then it is not unreasonable that we also have some thoughts and rules about it when it comes to the fish that is fished by tourists. We're proud of this raw material, and that's why we should also use the entire raw material when it's possible. That is why I think that the proposal that we have made should definitely be considered. The Minister for Fisheries has now confirmed that it has not even been assessed. The opposition is also occupied by the serious actors. Most people are serious, the problem is that when we have someone who isn't, it goes hard on those serious ones as well. It does something about the reputation of the industry, and it sends some signals out of the country about how we handle our own raw material. That's why it's so important to record. But the Labour Party is also a constructive opposition party, and if so, in proposal No. 1 is the problem of the word ‘to be imposed’, so I try to make a small amendment, and it is to replace the word ‘to be assessed’ with ‘to be assessed’ and to remove the word ‘to be imposed’ in the proposal. If we do that, it's a handshake to the position, and I hope we can agree on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1887	It wasn't meant to prolong this debate very much. I just want to point out that it's not insignificant quantity of fish we're talking about. I've been doing a festival for almost 40 years. We've never been less than 50 kilograms on average per. Day per day fish. If you have approx. 1000 guests and multiply it by 50, it's going to be significant. If you multiply it a little bit, there'll be a lot of fish. This fish I think could have been used in production. Because there is no doubt that there are many who need to be trained to cut the file or handle fish – blush, etc. Not everyone can. There is no requirement that you should be able to do it either in order to be able to participate in tourist fishing. So I like the proposal that has come, to consider whether some municipalities could get a fish to deliver to the farm and maybe get 20 kg, if that's what you needed, when you left the municipality. That would be all right. Then there would be professional people who did it, and you didn't mess with it, and you got the experience of fishing. It was a clarification the Council of State could bring with it. I'd like to take him on a trip.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1894	Then it seems that there are no more people who have any fishing stories to offer, and the debate on case no. 15 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1901	At the request of the Business Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 16 and 17 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1929	It is nice to have the representative Svein Roald Hansen as president in these matters. The President has already read out the entire long title of this matter. And as I said there, we are discussing both consent to the approval of a new trademark directive and consent to the accession of the Singapore Treaty on trademark law. As a result of the new trademark directive, there is also the promotion of a legislative proposal on the amendment of some laws. It is a unanimous nutrition committee that has dealt with the matter and the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee has joined our position. The new trademark Directive has been adopted on the basis of Article 114 TFEU on the internal market and replaces the 2008 trademark Directive, which is already incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The implementation of the new trademark Directive will bring about the modernisation and further harmonisation of trade mark legislation in the EEA area, which will have a positive impact on business. It is also easier for operators operating in several EEA countries to deal with the legislation. This is beneficial for both small and large enterprises. It may be interesting to note that Norway and the other EEA/EFTA countries have been made aware of the fact that Article 10 paragraph. 4 of the Directive on trade mark counterfeiting in transit is not considered to be of EEA relevance and therefore shall not apply to the EEA/EFTA countries. The amendments to the implementation of the Directive clarify what is already the result of the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which may be appropriate in order to facilitate the understanding of the legislation for users and thus to save them. The hearing bodies are in favour of the new trademark directive. The Association of Advocates points out that increased legal entity with other countries is important for industrial legal protection to be as good here as in our neighbouring countries and in the EU, and also indicates that harmonisation is important for the free movement of goods and to ensure predictability in international trade and in cross-border establishments. In the case of the bill of lading, amendments to the pledge law are proposed in order to open such special pledges in registered trade marks as required by the Directive. In addition, some other amendments to the trademark law, as well as certain changes to the company name law, the design law and the patent law are proposed. Amendments to Chapter 15 of the Customs Act and to Sections 34 to 7 of the Arbitration Act are also proposed to strengthen customs control of goods that interfere with intellectual property rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1944	Trademarks are important for the competitiveness of Norwegian companies and I am pleased that a Joint Nutrition Committee has joined the Government's proposal for the implementation of the 2015 EU Trade Mark Directive in Norwegian law and accession to the Singapore Treaty. The legislative proposal will clarify and modernise the trade mark rules on several points. Among other things, what can be registered becomes more technology-neutral and better financing is provided by special pledges of registered trademarks. The rules on company names are more harmonised with the trade mark rules. This is positive for businesses that relate to both legislation. In addition, amendments to the customs rules on detention and destruction of goods which interfere with intellectual property rights are proposed to make it easier and cheaper for rightholders to use the assistance of customs authorities. This will increase the possibility of combating illicit trafficking in piracy and counterfeiting, and this is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1953	There does not seem to be any more who will send some words along the way to this law. That being the case, the debate is on the agenda. 16 and 17 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1970	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e1977	First, I would like to thank the proposers for an important representative proposal and the Committee on Good Cooperation. This proposal for a representative was promoted before the Korona crisis. On 5 December 2019, we could read in the media that ‘there is now every reason to be aware that the extent now affected by plant lay-offs and redundancies seems to be well above what we can call a normal level’ in the winter months. Further: «At the same time, some contract sizes have become defective in the market. There are many major jobs — but fewer of them in the medium term — while there is still a good deal of pressure on the smallest jobs.’ Then came the coronary crisis. The hearings have been replaced by written hearings. The answers are in agreement, and I also believe that everyone in the committee has been asked about the concerns of different companies. We have received a good response to what can be done better to strengthen the industry, and dialogue is important. After the corona, this is even more important – competitiveness needs to be strengthened. I have to say, however, that we have a very competent construction industry, but they want more innovation, demand apprentices and want greater efforts against social dumping. They also want the Norwegian construction industry to be competitive and forward-looking. Therefore, the price cannot be the only award criterion. Government must use the purchasing power to develop the industry. The minority, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are therefore promoting eight proposals today to strengthen public acquisitions in order to better facilitate local, regional and national jobs. It is a majority in the Committee that asks for large contracts to be broken down into smaller ones, and points in particular to the Hålogalandswegen, but it is also a majority to facilitate, as far as possible, participation by Norwegian contractors in infrastructure construction in Norway. In addition, the Workers' Party and SV promote two proposals where we ask the government to withdraw from the use of OPS for both the Sotra connection and the Hålogaland road. I may come back to this later. As a result, all the proposals in the matter have been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2003	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2008	The bourgeois parties have in government built both more and faster ways for the money. Some of the success has been the establishment of New Roads, which have shown the way, among other things. in the case of new implementation strategies and the construction of more coherent and larger projects. As a result of this increase in employment, the Norwegian entrepreneurship industry has grown and developed dramatically, while the proportion of foreign entrepreneurs has fallen compared to the past. We in the right therefore feel that the representative proposal opens open doors and jeopardizes the progress of projects. The Hålogaland Road, the largest road project in the most populous part of North Norway, has been working on it for decades. It was also the most important project I worked with for our region when I was rapporteur in the first half of the 2000s. In the NTP in 2017, the final project was prioritised as a OPS project. So for three years detailed planning and contract strategies have been in place for this. The government is now ready to send the matter to Stortinget, with a quick start. With this curtain, it's sad that today's opposition on the finish line for political, ideological reasons will stop the project without anyone really knowing the consequences. The Stop proposal is full of good intentions to strengthen the Norwegian construction industry, but the division of the project also does not guarantee that Norwegian and local entrepreneurs will have more contracts in projects, and therefore increase employment. The only guarantee is that the project will be significantly delayed if the proposal is adopted. We're in a situation where there's really no majority for any of the expansion options. Today's government lots are for OPS, adopted in NTP. The opposition on the left is ideological towards OPS, while the Progress Party on the other hand is ideological against toll financing. I don't want to over-mist crisis, but all experience shows that political disagreements and rematches about transportation projects are the very recipe in years of delays. Subdivision into sub-projects has also traditionally delayed the completion of projects for years. It's e.g. only to look at the Gudbrand Valley and other areas visited by the Transport Committee, and where remaining works were to be completed many, many years ago. The Hålogaland Road is about to be the response of North Norway to the E18. Is the opposition prepared to take political responsibility for the delays on Hålogaland Road entirely on the upstream side, without having any guaranteed effect on what is desired: increased Norwegian employment? The Korona crisis is contrary to the urgent need to launch construction projects. Norwegian entrepreneurs have also shown that they think rigging, contract strategies and lower risk profiles have been interesting and exciting, and they have indicated that Norwegian companies will participate in the competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2023	Norway needs a million new jobs, many of them in the construction industry. For us, it is clear that these are jobs which should be within the scope of the current rules on professional qualifications, apprentices and permanent staff. Transport investment is an important industrial policy and must contribute to the promotion of value creation, tax revenue, skills and jobs in Norway. We're going to let transport investments drain across the country, not send money out of the country to strengthen the major international players. This is why the Centre Party is promoting this proposal for a representative to strengthen the Norwegian construction industry. The proposals we are promoting today have become even more relevant after the coronary crisis, and of course we will not, as the representative of Finstad says, stop any projects. We want to continue with the projects, but we want this value creation to benefit this country. The majority, consisting of the government parties and the Progress Party, today point out that there are very few foreign contractors in construction prices for operation and maintenance – and thank God for that, I say. So I'm going to show that if these big contracts aren't split up, we're going to like big foreign companies. This fact has been further reinforced following the report Effects of major public contracts, as Minister of Industry Nybø presented on 6 May. Government parties believe that there are good opportunities for the Norwegian plant industry to continue to develop and win contracts. It is a good intention, but then it is incomprehensible that it is not a unanimous committee that supports the proposals that the Central Party supports. To give a picture of the situation, the government parties refer to Nye Veier, where the contract share won by Norwegian entrepreneurs is over 80 p.m., they say. New Wegener has signed 13 contracts for a total value of 33 billion. kr, and 11 go to Norwegian contractors with a total contract value of approximately 26 billion. kr. So what's this equation going to show? Well, that shows exactly what's at the heart of our proposal for a representative: has 33 billion? kr and sign 13 contracts, it becomes an average of 2.54 billion. kr per contract. So it says 26 billion. kr has gone to eleven Norwegian operators, and there will be an average of 2.36 billion. kr. That means that by breaking up these giant monster contracts, we achieve exactly what it refers to in this example. The calculation substantiates our proposal. For example, the Hålogaland road has to reach 9 billion. kr divided.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2036	In these corona times, I have a lot of understanding that you are talking about having more activity for the Norwegian plant industry. This representative proposal from the Central Party came before the crisis we have in the industry now. You start to point out how you've organized the different projects. We have New Roads, we have the State Road Service, and we have had OPSs around the country that have had a lot of activity in recent years. Everyone's been successful in their own way, because we've been building a lot of infrastructure in recent years. I believe we have a very good overview and progress on projects both with foreign entrepreneurs and with Norwegians. New Roads are currently active in Trøndelag. There is the foreign company that has won the main contract, but most of the job is to be done by trundish workers, with trundish enterprises that take most of the job, although it is not the ones that have the whole contract price. It's because you've specialized in some areas, while there may be other areas where other companies are good. I see it's a proposal from the Workers' Party and more about OPS. We've discussed OPS before. It has been used to a small extent in Norway. For the Left, there is too little scope of OPSs. I think it's a good form, because it's a local commitment that manages to get more stakeholders to work on the team. The great, good example of that in troth layers is between Skeleton and Hurricane. Over 20 years ago, we had an OPS there that was a success. That project, that road section, might not have been built today — it is the start of the E39 — if it had not been for a local commitment and a local solution with several entrepreneurs, and a large one that guaranteed the use of money and not least for maintenance. I can't believe we're leaving success stories.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2047	The Progress Party and I believe that it is important both to have large projects, it is important to have projects that are regionally appropriate, and it is important to have projects that are appropriate locally. I also believe that with Nye Veier we have shown that it is possible to do so. We see that most things go to Norwegian entrepreneurs or Norwegian companies – if you can define all of them that we often define here as Norwegian, as Norwegian, they often have some foreign owners of them. But they're important companies, which have Norwegian employees who do a fantastic and incredibly good job in building infrastructure. It's a little special to listen to the Central Party on this pulpit. I agree that it is important to work for us to have Norwegian jobs, and that there are Norwegian workers who are going to do the job, but it is important to bear in mind that in fact it is to a large extent in the transport sector. And it's not that long ago – although someone might think that it's been a long time since the Central Party was in government, I think it's been a long time since – that it was a Central Party government council that traveled across Europe and wanted to pick up foreign labour and foreign companies to Norway to run infrastructure construction here. It's kind of special. So to a little bit of the challenge in this country: For those who remember the E18 expansion in Westfold, we used about. 20 years to build out a few miles by road. But it's also about the willingness to actually grant money and bet on transportation. This was achieved by the Progress Party when we were in government for the six and a half years, and we see that the missions are also largely directed to Norwegian companies, or at least to companies that we often define as Norwegians, which are active in Norway. That's great. But you have to look at the different projects, and it's a little bit special about the one project that we're talking about in a note, the Hålogalandsweg. It's about $8 billion. kr in a part of the country where you may not have the same opportunity as you have many other places to enter into a large contract. I am therefore pleased that we have received the majority of the Committee's comments that it is a project that should be split up. So I know that someone uses that argument that it could mean postponements, etc. But then I would like to point out that when it was the E18 at home in Bamble, we were also concerned that there would be a postponement, because New Veier took over for the State Road Service. But the result was – despite the fact that it took a little longer initially – that you were finished within what was the starting point. It's about dividing and doing things in a slightly different way can attack several arenas at the same time, and in that way you can manage to secure the expansion that you're going to have. So I'm very pleased -- I think I'll come back, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2058	I will address a very serious question for the Norwegian plant industry, which can be seen in part in the light of the corona situation. I will come back a little bit to what is closely related to this proposal in another post. Today we have talked about one of the largest contractors in the Norwegian construction industry, Albert Hehre, from my district in Buskerud. In a note that I have received, he points to two precarious challenges they are now facing. That is what the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs has pointed out many times. The broad packages don't hit the really big companies, where a large number live in wrecks. They have had to organize their lives in a completely different way after the Corona came. That's the one big challenge. It is then a major challenge in the context of infectious disease prevention rules that there is no work force in place. There are major problems with it due to local infectious diseases requirements, entry bans, etc. All public builders, that is, the State Road Service and others, have adopted the same attitude on a problem, and it is of course a matter of considering the virus as a kind of force majeure case. Is that it or isn't it? It means a lot to them. And the juice in the contracts is unclear. The industry now has no choice but to run lawsuits against many of the state's offices. It happens on continuous tapes. Many bankruptcies have been foretold. Only the Höhre company is talking about that they have lost approx. Sixty-three million. until 1 May due to the measures taken to protect the disease and the consequences of the corona. They say that they fall between several chairs, and that the wide packages do not help. In addition, because of these delays caused by the Corona, they are penalised twice. Why do they get double punishment? Yes, because of course they get fines because the projects have been postponed. You can imagine a situation where you're going to build the foundation of a bridge over a river that's been exposed. Then they don't get to do it until the flood comes. The project can then be postponed for six months. You could think of the daycaps that come at the top of this. It is very important for the Council of State to follow up on this, because this is quite concrete. Then, of course, it's the long-term effects that countercyclical measures could address. I'm addressing the proposition of cyclical measures promised by the government, it's going to be exciting. In the manufacturing sector in the transport sector, it is clear that there are many low-hanging fruits to address. Just in the Week, I think we're talking about about about 8 billion. kr i lag on transportation projects. So I'm glad to catch up to that. I will link some comments to the general one in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2073	Norway has a well-functioning construction market, and Norwegian entrepreneurs are and have always been part of this market. And as case spokesman for Leirtrø so right it said, it's a very competent industry we have. I therefore believe that Norwegian entrepreneurs will be doing well in this market for years to come. So I would like to stress that the Ministry of Transport, in the same way as the state builders in the transport sector, are concerned just about having a well-functioning construction market in Norway. This means that we will have a differentiated and competitive Norwegian construction industry consisting of both small, medium and large operators. There are many reasons to be offensive and optimistic on behalf of the Norwegian plant industry even in the required time we are now. One of the reasons is that state-owned builders, like the State Road Administration, are aware of their contract strategies. The results are also very clear. The vast majority of competitions for Norwegian transport contracts go to Norwegian entrepreneurs. In 2019, for example, 21 out of 23 of the State Road Administration and New Vegar AS contracts to what can be defined as Norwegian contractors. When I point to large contracts here, I mean those that are over 100 million. kr. The Storting has asked the government to ensure that public supply within roads, railways and fairways is designed so that Norwegian operators have a real opportunity to compete for the projects, while ensuring that there is no increase in the costs of the projects, including: where the amount of the contracts is involved. This requires requirements for knowledge of Norwegian conditions, climate and topography, where relevant for the assignment, and requirements for Norwegian wage and working conditions and the use of apprentices and their own additions to the construction site. In principle, I believe that all these concerns have already been preserved through the contracts of the state builders and their implementation strategies. However, I have pointed out that the guided tours of Stortinget will be followed up by our builders, under the premise that this will be done in line with current legislation and regulations. Although I have great faith in the Norwegian plant industry in the future, the Ministry of Transport will follow developments closely and assess how best to facilitate this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2088	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2094	In the Committee's examination, the majority, in the form of a comment, to ask the government to provide contract strategies that stimulate, as far as possible, the participation of Norwegian entrepreneurs. In this context, a reference in the comment on the Hålogalandswegen asks the government to split the project by tendering, while the concrete proposal, proposal No. 5, does not have the same majority since the Progress Party does not support this proposal, but only the comment. How will the State Council interpret Storting's will in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2099	In fact, I feel that a single store is concerned that Norwegian entrepreneurs should have a real opportunity to participate in the competition, we are also well aware of that. And when it comes to the Hålogalandsweg, Norwegian entrepreneurs are part of the work that is now going on here. So I hear a little bit different signals, because I also hear the representative Siv Mossleth, who is very clear that now it doesn't have to be a delay. And we know that if we're willing to go in and split up the work, it'll be real delays. It seems that I'm demanding at the time we're in now, as we just need activity, we need to keep the wheels going. That would be demanding if we were now to start breaking up the contracts, piece by piece and split. And we who followed transport policy ten years back in time know that it was just a challenge, that it was too much piecely and divided and too little coherent. So I choose to follow up on this work, but I am of course louder for what the Storting points to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2106	An overall entrepreneurial sector points to the competition law and its interpretation as extremely difficult. The hearing replies in the case request that resources be used for guidance for companies in the action room within the Competition Act to clarify the possibilities for cooperation for Norwegian entrepreneurs. This is another issue under the same theme. Is this something the Council of State might think of looking at?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2111	I believe it with a good dialogue between the builders and the construction industry is very important, and then having knowledge and information, and also guidance, I think I'm very positive. It seemed to me to be a good signal, which also the Storting points to, and I thought I should definitely look at that. It's a challenge, and I also think we should be aware that for some years back in time it was a very clear signal that 'we want bigger and bigger contracts', but we also listen to different organizations that point out that we should perhaps look at having a little less contracts. I had a meeting with the NHO, and they're very clear that eight or ten years ago they asked for larger contracts, and now they're giving a different signal, and there's also things we're forced to take with us. But I want to say that we should think very carefully about now, that we are not postponing the project at the time when we are now, where we need activity, because we really need it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2118	It has been mentioned before, a report from Oslo Economics commissioned by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries on 6 May. The report should look at the market impact of large public contracts within three selected markets, where the construction market was one of them. They have concluded that the correct contract size in construction projects depends on the project and whether the contracting entity is engaged in developing Norwegian contractors, and they say that there is a sufficiently large project – and a large project defines them as over 2 billion. kr – the contracting entity must take account of the fact that the contract will often go to a foreign contractor rather than a Norwegian contractor. We know that in the case of the Hålogaland Road, everything has been said from 8 to 9 and 10 billion. kr. When the Hålogaland road is planned as a 10 billion bid. kr, does it testify to a government that is engaged in developing Norwegian entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2123	As I said, Norwegian entrepreneurs are part of the competition linked to the Hålogalandsweg, so it confirms that there are opportunities here for Norwegian entrepreneurs to participate in installations of that size. As I also said in my previous answer, it is true that here there has been a development in which the industry has asked us to get larger contracts. We have delivered it, just to get a coherent expansion. And we're not going back that far in time. I think it was the representative Bård Hoksrud who called E18 in Vestfold, where we split the contracts, and so the result was cost increases of 30-40 pst. It was the time of the Consulting Engineers' Association that covered this, in 2013, and it was clear that it wasn't a good policy, because we need to get the most back for the money we spend within the infrastructure, and that's also my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2128	The report The impact of large public contracts can also be seen from the perspective of the analysis by Societal economic analysis. It is a ring-effect analysis of concrete major development projects. Here it turns out that there's a difference over 50 pst. both in national value creation and in national tax inputs, depending on whether we end up with a large foreign player or have the project made available to Norwegian entrepreneurs. The impact on the number of jobs is also high. Investments of 10 billion. SEK will only create 3,200 new annual works if you invest in a foreign company, against 8,600 new annual works if a Norwegian company receives the assignment. Does the Minister for Transport see that this should have a significant impact on the assessment of splitting the Hålogaland road? We are in a situation where the country is screaming for more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2135	It is clear that I think that report should be looked at. We're all interested in getting the greatest possible value in our society. We now have a very special crisis, which means it's important that we just keep our wheels going. My concern about the Hålogaland road is that if we start to cut that project apart, we will postpone it. We'll lose time, and maybe a lot of time, at a time when I just thought it was necessary. When we look at this, we should also be aware of how to split up a project – I showed an example here where we had 30-40 pst. cost increases, and there's money we're going to pay, all of them, and I'd like to go to other projects, because there's enough of good projects where we need it. So I spoke for 2019, and 21 of the 23 projects that the Swedish Road Administration and New Vegar had, went to Norwegian contractors.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2140	I believe that the Council of State and I are quite happy to have both large projects, a little smaller projects and small projects just so that the Norwegian construction industry can deliver in a good way, with the right contracts, and ensure that we have Norwegian labour supply on the infrastructure side. The Hålogaland Road is a big project, and it's one of the biggest on the road. We have seen that the largest on the railway has not always been a success in terms of costs, exceedances, etc. This is also a part of the country where there has been little, and that means that there may not be so much opportunities for local construction markets to deliver. There are some of the strong concerns coming from the continent, which make there a lot of concern about such a big project, up to 8-10 billion. kr. Can the Council of State say if he sees any of those concerns, and can he say something more specific about the time perspective, with postponements?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2145	It is true that this is a large project, but we have also carried out large projects. We just opened Ryfast, a bigger project, with a cost of over 11 billion. kr, which has been delivered in full in line with the costs of this project, as described. We are also doing this in the Norwegian plant industry. When it comes to the Hålogalandsweg, it's a big project. It will lead to a significant loss of time if you choose to do so. I have chosen to continue the work done by former state councillor Jon Georg Dale, and I see no need to criticize his work when it comes to the Hålogaland Road. It's done thoroughly and well, and that's the leads I've chosen to continue. Just in the light of the Korona era, I think it's important that we secure activity. There's an expense right now to put a project on hold, which makes us get less activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2152	I am weak of the Council of State's claim that we must not postpone projects, but to take him on the floor: I raised a case from the pulpit instead of about the entrepreneurial industry that is really in great difficulty. This can lead to catastrophic delays. We've had some bankruptcy, without mentioning the name. It has to do with a large tunnel outside Oslo, and it created great delays. There's more in the cold here. I have received such strong warnings, and I expect that the Council of State has received quite a bit of pressure from the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs. I referred to one big actor. What I would like to ask the Council of State is whether he can assess and, if necessary, talk to other government colleagues about it with the force majeure assessments. It's absolutely crucial for them now, because it means so much in loss if they don't get cover for unforeseen expenses. It's kind of a tool to get around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2158	We experience at this time that we are doing things that we had not done under normal conditions. I think we need to understand that there are now many projects that are, unfortunately, being postponed. Looking at force majeure associated with Korona is one of the tools that we have to take with us in the toolbox. It's not desirable, but it's the situation as it is today. I'll take that with me. Then I would also like to say that the Norwegian plant industry has so far come out of this crisis quite well. Of course, there are some challenges, but given the scale of the ring-fence it has, it is not that the crisis awareness is greater than we should believe, when we know that the situation is so demanding. The more important it is that we now keep up the activity, that we ensure that Norwegian entrepreneurs have facilities and work to do. I think it's incredibly important at the time I'm going into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2165	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2172	When the Progress Party went out into central and regional media and said that they had changed their mind about the giant offer of the Hålogalandsweg, I was very happy. I was happy because there was now a majority in Stortinget to split up a bid that few – if any – Norwegian companies can participate in. It has become more topical in the current situation, with 400,000 unemployed in Norway, of which the construction industry accounts for about 10 pst. There's a proposition about the Hålogalandsweg to Stortinget, and the government has signaled that they can't bring it before vacation. But once that proposition has arrived, it's late to change the contract structure that's to be in it. At least we risk delaying a very important national road for Norway — the national road with most of the trains with fresh fish, of a standard that is not built for these car combinations. This is the first possibility the Stortinget has to give a clear indication of the contract structure we want to see when the proposition about the Hålogalandsvegen comes to Stortinget. Changing the rules of the game when the case comes will be more difficult. We believe that it must be possible to ensure a new contract structure in the five months that goes from today until the Stortinget opens again in the autumn, when we can expect to have a proposition. But then we need a clear message from Stortinget today. The Progress Party has written comments, but they do not vote in favour of the proposal to split the contract, which is estimated to be a place between 8 billion. kr and 10 brd. kr. It creates uncertainty – uncertainty about what the Progress Party wants to be in the proposition. I would ask the representative of the Progress Party to clarify: if the Progress Party believes that the tender on the Hålogalandsvegen is split – why is it not important to adopt it today, in good time, so as to ensure the quality of the proposal and not delay this road project? I believe that the Norwegian plant industry deserves a clear response and predictability. If you use 1 billion. Norwegian kronor and a foreign main contractor will be much smaller by the billion again in Norway. If you use a Norwegian main contractor, it's 740 million. So let's add another cent. If you use a foreigner, it varies from 360 million. NOK to SEK 209 million. kr. It shows studies on real projects which have been examined by Societal Economic Analysis. It also employs many more Norwegian workers if you have a Norwegian main contractor. It is important that Norwegian companies are given the opportunity to compete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2193	We wanted to travel a fundamental discussion as we promoted this proposal. I would like to refer to the hearing replies from both EBA, BNL, MEF and the Labour Union, which essentially endorse our proposals, with some changes, of course. It also applies to the form of contracts, to the size of contracts and to better facilitate cooperation on large contracts under the Competition Act. The proposals are necessary to strengthen the Norwegian construction industry, and we are talking about the quote that is now, not the one that might have been ten years ago. The situation with the corona virus has made our proposals very topical, and the situation has made it clear that the need for the proposal to be adopted, was taken up and adopted at Stortinget on 31 March, in connection with Innst. 216 S for 2019-2020, which reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that public tenders in road, rail and fairway are designed in such a way that Norwegian operators have a real opportunity to compete for the projects, provided that this does not entail an increase in the costs of the projects, including the size of the contracts, and that knowledge of Norwegian conditions, climate and topography is required where relevant. [[...]] Since the proposal was promoted, the Korona crisis has put the Norwegian plant industry in an even more difficult situation than our proposal suggests, and that was one of the reasons why the Stortinge decided exactly what I read. And that's actually what's leading today; that's what's leading in the situation we have now, and we don't know how long this crisis will last. It is clear that regional policy instruments are crucial for maintaining a competitive construction market in Norway and therefore the need for own action packages for the construction industry appears to be high in the future. This will mean that what may be described as action packages will in many ways be something that will solve ordinary projects, such as: like the Hålogaland Road. Both the Right Party, the Progress Party and the Left consider that there are good opportunities for the Norwegian plant industry to continue to develop and win contracts, both now and in the future, and they point out that Norway will continue to need a national plant industry that is both innovative and attractive. They also say that the contract strategy needs to be adapted to the target achievement, and it is essential that the contract strategy is adapted to the individual project. What we want is that it is an overall policy approach for all projects in Norway that should provide the best possible facilities for local, regional and national jobs. This is where it creeps. That's what's the principle in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2211	I'm going to start at the end of where the representative Fasterale, because he mentioned this with a general competition strategy from the public, and that's very important. That is also why the Central Party in this proposal does not – what to say – mess up into any OPS or not OPS. We believe that this should be an overall strategy to strengthen the Norwegian construction industry, regardless of whether the projects are the OPS project or not. Then I want to mention to the Council of State that the Korona crisis has actually shown that it is possible to swing around when it is will and resources are deployed, and I think, and also the entrepreneurship industry believes, that it is possible to split up the Hålogaland road without it having to take a serious long time. We have to remember that this is a contract that will last a whole generation in the future. It's a contract of 25 years, so if we spend half a year or more now, it might be worth taking that round as early as possible. I also want to refer to the county council in Northernland. They adopted on 22 April the following opinion: ‘The contract structure of the Hålogaland Road must be adapted to regional and national entrepreneurs’. In this opinion, all parties, including the Right, the Left, the Christian People’s Party and the Advance Party, the Government and the Magnificent, are asking to go through the contract strategies for large-scale civil engineering projects. They say that in today's situation it is more important than in the past to facilitate that Norwegian and Norwegian entrepreneurs can have a real opportunity to participate in the competition for such investments. And if the expansion is awarded in a total contract of up to ten billion. kr, is a solution that fits very poorly with the industry structure we have in the entrepreneurial sector, both regionally and nationally. So the county council is very clear that they want the hole road project carried out by the extension being divided into three or four parallel contracts. The Central Party is following up its opinion on the current proposal, which makes it clear that the procurement strategy adopted on 31 March must also apply to the Hålogaland Road.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2222	There is a lot of consensus – at least verbally – in this room about how we can secure Norwegian companies. I think most people are interested in it somehow. The question is how do we do it, and what action are we going to take? Obviously, it's like the EEA membership's putting a belt on us, it puts a belt on us. We have less room for action. Everyone understands that. I guess that's the back of the medal. There's still a couple of grips we can take. One is what is proposed in several contexts, dividing the contracts. The second, if you look at the EEA action room, is to look at competition law. That's the second approach – so you can work together. The third is to set conditions that are the same for all – then there is no conflict and competition rules – but which in some way implicitly impose conditions, as the Council of State also mentioned, that confer benefits on Norwegian companies. We've noticed that in many other areas of transportation. We've seen it, for example. the requirement for maritime industry, zero emissions, etc., that Norwegian companies benefit from it. The fourth, as I also mentioned in the previous post and in the reply with the Council of State, is to look at the guarantee claims, as required by the rating of the guarantee companies. There's a lot of demands, which I haven't been able to go all the way in. I just hear what the companies say, and I almost see the sweat and the tears, because it's pretty tough stuff. When not even one of Norway's largest banks is good enough rating for a Norwegian company, then you can start fooling. You have to go to foreign guarantee companies. This is actually a point to take with it. It was also mentioned to set technical requirements, such as: for equipment, winter conditions, difficult terrain, etc. The Council of State also mentioned that it is within the contracts, it is said. There may also be concerns about emissions, environmental considerations – you can set such demands, which I think Norwegian companies get better out of – professional skills, a high proportion of professionals, etc. It is possible, and in the proposals of which SV is part, we have thought in these paths. It's in the direction it's going. So it's a little bit of a shame how the mechanisms are between the opposition and the position. That's the way it is, and it's a shame it's like that. But it goes a little bit on autopilot that the government parties do not support any of these proposals, which I think many might want to support. It's like that, and you can't equal it or not. I don't like it much, but that's the way it is. I think many of these proposals should have had a majority in the Chamber. In particular, I think it's a bit of a shame with the Progress Party, which is just a little bit in words, but not in action – i.e.. in the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2233	I believe that most people in this Chamber share the intention of the proposed representative who has been promoted. We all want the best for the Norwegian entrepreneurial industry, for the Norwegian supplier industry. I don't think we need to have any discussion about our starting point for that. That is also why, at least in the period we are behind from 2013 to today, we have done what we can do just to facilitate a large proportion of Norwegian contracts, both at Nye Vejer and at the State Road Administration, in Norwegian road construction – simply because we see that facilitating small, medium and large contracts gives a variety of contract sizes that make it possible to hit the market widely. Norwegian suppliers are competitive. It is shown that they win contracts on an ongoing basis, compete on good terms and take the largest share of Norwegian road construction. That's kind of the starting point. We don't have to make the world worse than it is. Risk in a road project is also not just about the amount of money. It is about the risks associated with basic conditions, complex structures and very many other factors involved — including the form of the contract. On the Hålogaland road, we are facilitating that there is to be a OPS project. It is anchored in the National Transport Plan of 2017 that there shall be a OPS project. This has been the case in the industry, and the industry also wants predictability. This means that there is actually a Norwegian supplier who is entitled to participate in that competition and can win in that competition. What we also see is that regardless of whether it is a Norwegian or a foreign supplier who wins the competition, Norwegian subcontracting is significantly linked to such a contract. What is a little unfortunate in this matter, I think, is that we are now creating unforeseeableness. The size helps to create unforeseeability related to the way we implement Norwegian transport construction. That's not good. It means delays, and it means uncertainty in the market related to this type of contract. I think it should be an advantage now for everyone, including local subcontractors and suppliers, that we could carry out the project as planned, as an OPS project with the benefits it has, and ensure that it is implemented as quickly as possible. This has the greatest impact both in the local market and in the overall entrepreneurial market. A small degree of discretion until the end: when the representative Nävra is involved in the Norwegian entrepreneurial market, I have a small recommendation. It's putting off a little more money for road construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2242	I personally must be allowed to express from Stortinget's pulpit that I am a little disappointed today. This case, the Hålogaland Road, I've been working for the political home for 20 years. Now we are on the rise – we are so close – and today there is enormous doubt about the implementation of the project. I have to say that touches me very much. As the previous speaker pointed out, there is a great deal of consensus here in the Chamber on strengthening the Norwegian construction industry. It has also happened in recent years, and I think we should all give a boost to the Norwegian construction industry, which has really evolved over the last few years and created increased employment for the country. I also think that there are some contradictions in the statements that have come here today. It is said that the construction industry demands predictability, that we need rapid action because of the coronary crisis, and that the construction industry needs a job. Now we have a huge job that is soon ready to be broadcast, and then maybe a majority in the hall wants to stop that offer. So you actually suggest the exact opposite of what you want, and you take away the predictability that the contractor industry has had: that there should be a OPS project, the Hålogaland Road, which it has been working on for three years – the planning has taken three years, with contract strategies and full package. The head of Skanska has just been out saying that he wants predictability and asks the politicians to do so. I just feel that the Hålogaland road today might be used in a kind of political game that's about ideology, and it's now really very unclear what's going to happen to this project. I think that's very bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2253	Once again, the intention of our proposal was to have a fundamental debate, and it's good to explain it with the practical examples. But what we are facing now are transport investments that can contribute to the creation of value for society, both through efficient transport, increased employment and the building of competences across the sector, and that may also be exportable in the future. In addition to building new infrastructure, we now have a historic opportunity to build positive ring-effects for the entire Norwegian community. An overall industry is clear that developments in the civil engineering sector are indicative of building and supplier strategies that support the development of Norwegian suppliers. I agree that we have an industry that is good and that is good and that has shown that it has delivered. Now there is an industry that says clearly: we want to put forward a strategy in the years to come that is adapted to the skills we have. It might have been like this once in a while that you had to pick up a lot of skills. Now it's different, and that's what the future is. We have to decide which suppliers and what competence we need to have in a long perspective to realize the demanding construction projects we depend on in the future. Norwegian entrepreneurs have extensive competence. they have experience in planning and experience in carrying out demanding construction projects; The strategy must contribute to the use and further development of this competence. I deliberately use the word'strategy' because that's what they're asking for. They ask for this hall to point out a direction and a strategy that is a loop under which they can fall. And so it's not a Norwegian championship to tell you what it's been like before. There's a lot of what's done before, which is good, and there's a lot of that that might be less good. Now we look into the future, and when you go into the analysis of the value creation, which is what many people have been involved in, that is, the value creation that this brings into Norwegian hands – and also in the situation we are in now, and not least in the future NTP – that strategy must take that on board. It has to be a minimum. I am not in any doubt that New Veger has done very well in the Norwegian construction industry. But the point we're talking about is not whether to prioritize that project in front of the other. That's how to break up the projects, and how to facilitate that there is Norwegian labour force that can compete about it. Finally, I just want to remind you that there is a whole industry that expresses this – a whole industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2268	The debate on substance is closed. 18 goes on after the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2280	The size is then ready to go to voting on the matter no. 1 to 17 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2289	Case No. 1 is the second time that the law is dealt with and applies to the Act 91. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2303	During the debate, Mr Greni has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2382	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Act on Temporary Changes to the Law on Planning and Buildings in Roman numeral II is replaced by the following: [[measures to remedy the consequences of covid-19]] II 1st@item: inlistbox The law will come into force immediately. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Act shall be repealed on 1 November 2020.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2406	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2416	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2496	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2508	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2522	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2607	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2618	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. The government is asking the government to provide full compensation to the municipalities for additional costs of introduction assistance and the introduction programme in the context of the covid-19 situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2629	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2648	During the debate Maria Aasen-Svensrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to set up a system in which all visiting refusals are to be logged until 1 October with the possibility of verification.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2717	It is votered over A I § 45 a Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2731	It is voted over A § 45 c, first paragraph, last sentence. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2745	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2756	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2766	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e2999	It is contested by § 3 and § 4, first paragraph, points (a) and (b). Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3013	The remainder of Section 4 and other paragraphs are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3023	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3034	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3108	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3118	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3307	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3317	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3330	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked not to continue the restrictions on free choice of treatment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3379	It is contested by the third and fourth paragraphs of Section 6-2. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3393	It's going to be over the rest of the I.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3412	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘II is replaced by the following: The law will come into force immediately. The Act shall be repealed on 1 November 2020.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3433	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3443	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3455	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3562	Alternatively, the first sentence of the first subparagraph of Section A(2) is replaced by the first sentence of Section 2, third paragraph, first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3, second paragraph, first sentence of Section 3 and third paragraph of Section 3 and proposals No. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, reads: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2 shall be replaced by the following: The assembly may decide that the hearing or the meeting of the appeal proceedings shall be held in full or in part as a remote meeting and that the hearing shall be conducted as a remote hearing, where necessary and inconspicuous. Paragraph 2, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: The title may decide that interpretation shall be carried out as a remote interpretation when it is sound. the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3 is replaced by the following: The committee may decide to limit the scope of the negotiating meeting and to take decisions on the basis of a combination of oral proceedings in meetings and the documents of the case, where necessary and inconspicuous. Paragraph 3, second paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: The conclusion may decide that the process proxies may make final submissions in writing where necessary and unsolicited.’;» Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, says: ‘The third paragraph of Section 3 is replaced by the following: Before taking a decision after the first and second subparagraphs, the parties shall be given the opportunity to comment. Significant emphasis should be placed on the views of the parties. In cases under the Children's Protection Act §§ 4-12 and 4-20, all parties must consent to such treatment. A child without party rights who is able to form his or her own views shall be given an opportunity to comment before a decision is taken. The partial written procedure decision after the first and second subparagraphs shall state the reasons on which it is based.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3600	It is votered over A, the rest of §§2 and 3 and §6. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3614	It is voted over A § 5. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3628	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3638	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3648	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. The government is asking for a return to the Storting with a proposal to extend the working time of all or part of the temporary law on child protection adaptations and supplementary legislation to address the consequences of the covid-19 outbreak beyond 22 October 2020 if the government considers this to be necessary to ensure that child protection can solve its tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3757	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3765	The title of the law and the law as a whole were unanimously endorsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e3768	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e4077	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e4086	The title of the law and the law as a whole were unanimously endorsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e4089	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e4101	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No 3, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for review of the existing plans for changing hospital structures in the capital area in order to determine whether infectious diseases are being protected and whether the division of tasks between hospitals and the dimensionalisation of new buildings is appropriate for ensuring the health of the population in future pandemics and other exceptional events that place particular stress on hospitals. The scenarios developed by the Public Health Institute for the Coronapandemic shall be taken into account in the work. As part of the work, risk and vulnerability analysis shall be carried out on the protection of infection and the functioning of epidemics/pandemics for New Oslo University Hospital plans, and work shall contribute to clarifying the claims that compact high-rises are less suitable for limiting the spread of infection in hospitals than other building solutions. Representatives of the infectious environment of Oslo University Hospitals and the organisations of employees shall be involved in the work.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e4134	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate the continued operation of Ullevål Hospital, in line with the Municipality of Oslo City Council decision, that the Gaustad plans be put on hold until the continued operation of Ullevål is sufficiently investigated, and to present the investigation to the Stortinget by the end of 2020. The investigation must answer the objections raised by the City Council of Oslo.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that no state regulation is adopted if the Municipality of Oslo does not adopt a re-regulation in line with the health plans of Health South-East.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e4165	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 3, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit proposals for the establishment of a green investment company for the development of enterprises based on green carbon.» [[renewable]] The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e4198	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to increase the long-term carbon uptake in Norwegian forest areas. The plan must contain, in addition to a detailed plan for forest planting, knowledge-based value creation measures and concrete climate action that will enable forestry to contribute to the achievement of the emission targets.’;» The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e4222	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Cecilie Myrseth on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, the proposals No 3-8, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 1 was changed and now reads: ‘The Government is asked to assess a scheme whereby tourist fishermen can deliver fish to local fish recipients.’ There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-8, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for foreign tourists to take fish out of the country only if they have been fished in cooperation with a registered tourist fishing establishment, so as to limit exports that do not provide value creation in the communities and to gain more control over how much fish is fished and carried out.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the export requirement applies to round fish, not filleted.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests a change in the export requirement so that the limit in kilograms is applicable per year, not per border crossing.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, in the ongoing work on tourist fishing, to identify the food waste from tourist fishing and propose measures to minimise food waste.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a change to the Marine Resource Act to allow conditions for the establishment of tourist fishing establishments and to return to Stortinget with such a legislative proposal. The change shall ensure that all tourist fishing establishments have to be registered and authorised before they can take up business. Safety, boat and equipment requirements shall, inter alia, be equivalent to those for professional fishing.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of fishing permits for foreign tourists, where revenue is to be used for the control of fishing, and to return to Stortinget with a case to this effect.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e4281	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan of measures to prevent illegal tourist fishing.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e4298	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess a scheme whereby tourist fishermen can deliver fish to local fish recipients.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e4322	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5831	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5839	The title of the law and the law as a whole were unanimously endorsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5842	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5875	The cancellation then goes back to the examination of case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5894	The chairman of the transport committee stated in his statement that we all agree on the intention here, namely to strengthen Norwegian construction industry. But I think there's a big difference in the will to use politics to achieve what we want. It is not the EEA legislation that stands in our way here. EEA legislation says that either you split the acquisition or you justify why you had to make it as big as it is. It shall provide for fair competition and shall allow regional and national actors to participate in the competition. Already in 2019 we saw in the opposition the giant who was about to take shape when it came to the Hålogaland road – a bid for up to 10 billion. kr. We asked the question, can it be like this? It was argued here with the use of public funds that they must be used in a good way. Yes, competition must be ensured. Who can compete for a 10 billion? kr project in the Arctic, north of the Arctic Circle? How many tenderers do you get? With regard to the economy of the country, it's not just the price of building this road that matters. Societal economic analysis has analysed road projects where large foreign contractors have the main contract price and where Norwegians have the main contract price. There is a big difference in the amount of road money you spend, which remains in Norway. Actually, it should be obvious. Norwegian companies have more Norwegian employees. Yes, it becomes activity for subcontractors, but Norwegian entrepreneurs pay their taxes to Norway, and they pay for their accounts and for other goods and services that they buy. Employment should be important for the whole of the bulk of population today, especially in the situation we are facing. We know that there are twice as many Norwegian employees at a Norwegian main contractor as at a foreign company. This road project is important for North Norway and Norway. I think I met the representative Finstad for the first time when we were fighting for that project. He was the rapporteur, and I was the head of a nutrition association in the Narvik region. It's just as important to me as to him that we get built this way, and I think it's a shame that the Progress Party doesn't use the opportunity to make the Greatness's will clarifying. But I expect the government to take note that the Storting wants this tender to be split up, and to spend the time until we meet again for the harvest session, when they are going to make the proposition about the Hålogalandswegen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5905	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5910	The representative says that most people agree with this matter. A majority in Stortinget has called for the division of Hålogalandsvegen, the whole county of Nordland wants the division of the Hålogalandsvegen, and this majority wants this road as much as the representative of Finstad. I had thought that all this will would be expressed in a clear majority in this Chamber. I had planned to celebrate with marzipan cake – I have a cake with the «Hålogalandsvegen» on the marzipan lid and saw for me that now we were to split up the Hålogalandsvegen both at the vote and at the cake party, which is now cancelled, unless the representative Hoksrud draws up. The representative Hoksrud has another comment and still has the chance to say that the Progress Party will vote for the split.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5915	The Sotra connection connects the 40,000 who live in the new Eyegarden municipality. It's one of the most important projects we have locally in the Bergens region. In Eyegarden we have Kollsnes, Ågotnes, the new port and the new storage system for CCS, etc., so it is absolutely vital that we realize that. During the 2013 elections, the Right proposed that it be a OPS, for it would accelerate the process. But then it hasn't happened. We think it would have been completed if it hadn't been an OPS, but enough about it. But it is important that there is a connection between the choice of contract form and the types of projects we start, and that is at least an important experience to which this is linked. In addition, funding for the maintenance of only a few kilometres of road for several years has been included in the project. I have asked former transport ministers what makes the project that initially cost 11 billion. kr, suddenly it's up to 17 bn. kr. Is the uncertainty associated with maintenance included – is that what is in the arrangements? The professional communities have been aware that the Sotra connection is not suitable for an OPS because most of the project is just a large bridge. But the trade unions have also made it clear that it is nice to re-split it, even if you have had it out on a tender. Only foreigners have offered the opportunity to build it. We can divide it up to three to four total contractor prices – because it is important that the entrepreneurial sector is further developed, has the opportunity to participate in bidding rounds and through it is also the main contractor, not the subcontractor. There's a big difference. In April, there were 10,000 unemployed in the West, of whom 3,000 were from the construction industry. All over the country, we're working on finding good activity projects, just to get back to the activity and speed of the economy. When you have the possibility that OPS was not suitable for this project, and we have so many of our own professionals and engineers who are available and waiting for assignment – why not use this opportunity to split it up, just to get back increased activity? Nor has it been given that it is so easy to advance in the future when you are going to operate online with environments either in China – they have apparently withdrawn – or with Italians or Swiss people, because there will be travel restrictions for many years to come. But I understand that neither the Minister of Transport nor the majority here want it. That means there is no excuse for any delay in the Sotra connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5928	Thank you for a good debate – and then I hope I do not now extend the debate. I would first like to congratulate the representative, Finstad, on his birthday today. It's a little bit of a shame that we might be using it to disagree so deeply. The representative, Finstad, says this is political ideology from the left. I'd say I completely disagree with that. OPS is an ideology. When we dealt with the Sotra connection, there were no clear indications that this was okay, there is little research and reports in Norway that this is a good way to do it. We in the opposition have listened to the hearing replies that have come to this matter, and there we have received clear answers from an overall industry that breaking up large projects into smaller parts – also the Hålogalandswegen – is a right thing to do. When the same representative talks about delays, it is also a claim. As the previous speaker here says about the Sotra connection, it's long overtime – it's been six years since it was promised to start. There are no Norwegian entrepreneurs who have shown interest. It's a very economic project, and the coronary situation can actually cause this to be further delayed by the fact that there are only foreign entrepreneurs. OPS is also financing operations and maintenance. It's suitable in poor countries, but I guess we can't define ourselves under that category. I hope that the discussions we have had here today can also be part of the NTP debate. In particular, a person may look at the proportion of road projects that are decided upon in court or by settlement. We also have some of them in the revised national budget. As I said, we have little knowledge of OPS in Norwegian context, and we should evaluate it and get more knowledge of it. But we were warned when the Sotra connection was treated. I am also pleased that the Council of State here and at the industry promises to look at dividing the projects into smaller projects, at least for the future. So the government council is called Ryfast. Then I just want to remind you that there was a project that was divided into five projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5945	The President will just mention that here are both birthdays and marzipan cakes mentioned in the debate, so it gives some opportunity to merge so that the cake does not go to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5950	It would have been fun to continue playing on that cake – it must have been pretty mad, because it's been a long time since the representative Mossleth knew that the Progress Party was not going to support the proposal. But we agree with the comment that is now a majority comment, and I assume that the government will take care to follow up on the majority comments on the matter. I want to say that we have a construction industry in Norway that is very offensive, that has done a lot, and that has demanded larger contracts – we have agreed on that. In addition, you have to have a different portfolio. That's the starting point. I have to say that when the Sotra connection suddenly appeared in this case, there was a slightly more specific proposal. Then it might seem that this is the debate the Central Party initially said they wanted, and as I think it is good that we have had. I believe that there has been a good debate today in several of these areas, but it is a little bit to open some open doors in view of what has been lying there, when we know that since the Progress Party came into government, most of the contracts have gone to Norwegian companies, or what we define as Norwegian companies. It's funny that one of the quite large companies in one of the big companies in Norway actually came and said that we might not have quite understood how much we've done with New Veier, meaning for Norwegian construction. It's a good signal to bring with you, because it shows that you've actually done a lot of right with the grips you've taken. We mean something about the comment that the Progress Party is in. I realize that there's a quick debate about OPS or not OPS, but for the Progress Party, it's not that much about which model you choose; it's a lot more about what we're going to do. There has been agreement that those projects would be OPS projects, as it were. We are concerned about finding good solutions, we are concerned about building, and Norwegian construction industry and Norwegian workers are working on expanding infrastructure around Norway. The centre party challenged us to say that we want to spend money on Norwegian workers. Yes, the Progress Party is very concerned that it should do so, and that is why we have also strengthened the transport budgets by 80 pst. in relation to the last time the Centre Party was placed with government power. So it's a little special to listen to the representative Nävra, who's standing here and is an ambassador for and busy that we're going to spend money building roads in this country, when we know that SV would really rather trample down on everything that's related to road construction. They include: a proposal a little later today where you want to build a smaller road. He's busy in the construction industry, and that's good, but if we're going to have a construction industry, we have to make sure we have projects. The Advance Party is concerned that we should have good projects, but I also believe that we should be able to have a discussion of 8-10 billion. kr is the right thing when we see where most projects are per day.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5965	I would like to thank you for a good debate, and I shall not prolong the debate, but I have a brief comment in the end. The representative Bengt Fasteraune was very clear that the Stortinget has decided to ask the government to make sure that public offerings within road, rail and fairway are designed so that Norwegian actors have a real opportunity to compete for the projects. Knowledge of Norwegian conditions, climate and topography must be required. I would like to say that I have taken it directly with the builders for whom I am responsible – that the statements of which the Stortinget has been concerned are raised from that perspective. So I want to say yes, in 2019 21 out of 23 projects were won by what we call Norwegian entrepreneurs. I feel a common desire in this room to raise the Norwegian entrepreneurs, but I also think it would be a little special if we had said that we did not want any foreign operators in the Norwegian market. But we're taking this with us, and of course I'm listening to the signals that the Storting is giving and the decisions that are being made here. I also want to say, when the Sotra connection has been mentioned: if we make changes there, there will be a new release of that project. The same applies to the Hålogaland Road. I mean, right now it's very important that we get activity, in the light of the very demanding situation the country has with the coronary crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5974	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5991	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e5998	As far as the E39 is concerned, we have had some debates in the past and this goes into the series. This is a big deal, because this is about the route from Trondheim to Kristiansand, and there are seven ferry routes on the way. There's some local involvement, and there's, of course, a lot of national involvement and spread all over this distance. We know that the last few days have now been an engagement in the different districts. All the components affected by the E39 have come with their priority areas within the NTP. We know that e.g. Westland has had a different order than it might have been expected, and so it became a debate. I see that the Hareide Council has been in several debates on what priority it should have – that is an exciting matter. I understand that SV, who has really been a spokesperson for us to think quite differently from what the Stortinget has done before, now feels that this matter needs to be reversed in view of what was adopted in the NTP just three years ago – yes, ‘only three years’, but there may be a long time in politics. It will be dealt with again as early as next year when we are going to have a revision of the NTP. That's why the committee said clearly that a hearing in this case would have been natural if it wasn't to be dealt with anywhere else, but we found out that it was a little strange to take a hearing now that we're actually at a big hearing, you're around the local, and the project is consulting in the different states. You're going to dialogue beyond the fall, and then you're going to deal with the matter in Stortingen next spring. The left has been quite clear on the matter regarding the ferry-free E39. We made an agreement with the majority at Stortinget in 2017 to start Rogfast, Hordfast and Møreaksen in the first period. We stand by that until any other decision – it is perfectly obvious that we stand by our agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6011	Many of the projects within the national transport plan have become significantly more expensive than foreseen. The next transport plan will thus have major economic challenges. We have e.g. The Folloban, the Ringerix Railway and the Eastfold Railway, which must find its solution. It must also do the projects adopted on the E39. There are important projects building together housing and labour market regions, and these are projects supported by the Workers' Party. It is established as part of the existing national transport plan 2018-2029. People and goods must arrive quickly and efficiently. The further work on the E39 will be determined in the treatment of the national transport plan 2022-2033, and we will already do so next spring. This is where investigations will be carried out, for example: technologies for sustainable mobility and mobility provide us with useful knowledge. Societal economic profitability, cost-benefit and not least toll ratio are important investigations that must be carried out on the table before the decision is taken. The decision on the priority of the project is therefore considered to have to be made in the next spring. The Workers' Party and the SV promote a common proposal in the case where we propose that: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to set up an industrial competence centre in the West for marine zero-emission technologies and autonomous maritime transport systems, in close contact with both the research communities, the industries and clusters concerned and the state road network.’ This means that proposal No. 1, from the Working Party and SV, taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6025	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6030	In this proposal for a representative, SV is once again trying to put chains in the wheels of the Free E39 – a project to link labour markets in the West and build strong value-creating regions. The project free of charge E39 originates from the National Transport Plan 2014–2023, as SV was actually in government. Since then, extensive investigation and planning work has been carried out, which in turn forms the basis for the priorities set out in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029, which was adopted in 2017. In today's NTP, three of the major fjord crossing projects are prioritised. It is Rogfast, Hordfast and Møreaksen – three projects that will help to link the region between Bergen and Stavanger and between Kristiansund, Molde and Ålesund. The state road service has done a good job of reducing the cost of these projects. Since it contributes to the integration of housing and labour markets, projects also have very high benefits. The value added potential of implementing these projects is significant. In all projects, improved ferry services were also assessed. For the projects that I just mentioned, improved ferry services will not provide sufficient curtailment of travel times and thus do not have the desired effect on living and working conditions. Corresponding assessments need to be made for the other E39 projects, and for some of the fjord crossings, improved ferry services can be the solution, especially where the traffic base is low and the costs are very high. Crossing the Sognefjord can be such an example. In other places, ferries-free solutions in the form of bridges or tunnels are the best solution, but an assessment must be made for each project. Priority will be given to transport projects in the context of the national transport plan. It is reassuring to see that a broad majority of the Committee is of the same opinion and that the priorities of today’s national transport plan are fixed. The ferry fleet is replaced at a great pace, and in a short time as many as about 80 ferries will be based on low and zero emission solutions. It is the result of the offensive purchasing policy of both the state and the states and the ability of the Norwegian maritime industry to develop new technological solutions. There is no reason to slow down this development. There is plenty of ferries to electrify and convert to low and zero emission solutions. The combination of world-leading maritime competences, stringent environmental requirements and offensive tendering policies will help both the ferry fleet and the fast boat fleet move in a more environmentally friendly direction over the coming years, while improving the provision of passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6049	After hearing the SV's representative talk about the construction industry in the previous case, she suddenly wanted to do the opposite. This is an incredibly exciting project. There's a lot of commitment to the Western world for this exciting project. There is an opportunity for an industry that is now facing major challenges, namely the oil industry. And those who run the oil industry have seen this as an opportunity. Here you can actually create new things, and you can make sure that technology is put in place by using the expertise that we have from the North Sea to actually build this exciting project. And then the answer from SV is that at least we won't. I believe we should continue to work on this important project. I think there's a lot of exciting opportunities, and that means a lot of regional magnification in the areas where the road comes in the future. It is in the national transport plan that the leadership is largely assigned to the projects and priorities, and I believe that this is also true in this case. But as we've seen, in Western states there have been discussions, and I'm recording that some parties are skeptical to continue to prioritise this project high, but I also understand that part of those who are opposed to this, are really against everything called infrastructure on the road, and that's sad. I think, as I said, that this is exciting, that it offers opportunities, and it also provides opportunities for an industry that has a tough – many are down – to export this enormously good competence. In addition, there are probably a lot of people who don't like bridges and that kind of thing, but we know that there are a lot of people who are rolling around the world to see amazing construction works and bridges. And when we're in a normal situation – and that's what we'll probably be before this bridge, or these solutions, are done – it can actually happen that tourists are coming to see the amazing artworks we're making along the way here. So I'm glad that a large majority is on the same line, and then we vote for SV's proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6064	It is important to develop socio-economically profitable transport projects that contribute to robust housing and labour markets and support business needs. These are criteria underlying the entire national transport plan that we are in the middle of the process of right now. Work is in progress in the State Road Service where the projects related to ferry-free fjord crossings are optimised to reduce costs and increase benefits. It is also important to stress that a single majority has approved the current NTP, where a ferry-free and upgraded E39 is a priority, but that also means that the pathways between the fjord crossings should be given priority. It is important to bring forward the Expert Committee's report on Technology for Sustainable Mobility and Mobility, because this report points to the importance of assessing technological solutions, innovation, into the major transport projects. We're talking about the future, we're talking about a desire to be able to exploit what competence can give us. Ferry-free E39 has for a long time been an important project to ensure better accessibility in large parts of the country, for both people and goods. It is a huge, long stretch that is used as a kind of generic term for a project, but where there are great individual differences, and which I am absolutely convinced that in the future you will find different ways to solve the challenges. In fact, the most important thing is that people and goods should come forward quickly and efficiently. It's completely secondary whether it's via bridge, tunnel or ferry. New technological solutions and large cost increases in fjord-crossing projects are important arguments for making new assessments of the projects. The Freight Car Association says it quite clearly, several municipalities have said the same thing, and now they also state, that it is more important to repair the path between the ferry routes than, necessarily, to remove the ferries first. So we all know that this is a combination, that the projects that are to be realized are something we have to look at in isolation. It is therefore very important to carry out thorough assessments in the ongoing process of NTP creation. Even now, we are looking at a great many areas in the field of relations that there are large budgetary overruns and costs that are really out of control. I want to show that the cost of the ferry-free E39, which in 2016 was estimated at 340 billion. kr, now most likely has a price tag of 500 billion. kr. The maintenance run is just enormous, and no matter how we turn around on it, it's saying yes to something to say no to something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6077	I thank you for the wise words of the last speaker. That's a good signal from the Center Party. I have a messy script after the local and Hoksrud representatives have been on the speaker's chair – there's a lot of notes here, and I'll see how much I can reach. The two matters that are now coming – this case and the next case – are quite related and relate to the gigantomania in the development of the motorway. They hang out a little bit. SV has said, and I say it and I can repeat it: we want safe roads. We want to build far and not so wide. I ask someone to notice that, because that means we need well construction to build far too, and we need well construction to build between the ferries and to secure the roads, for example. in the case of race protection, yellow mid-strip, shoulders and straightening out the roads. I don't think it's serious to attack SV's desire to strengthen Norwegian construction by not having a ferry-free E39. I think that almost limits to the dishonest, because we've worked a lot to add to the budgets of the district roads, which cost money and help the Norwegian construction industry colossal. To a large extent, we can use small entrepreneurs for it: to build far and not so wide. We have listed the free E39 several times – it has been said before, and that is correct. The reason we've done this is because it's a hugely expensive project. We have to think very well about there. It'll cost about 190 billion. kr only for the fjord crossings. It'll cost about 200 million. kr of the year to maintain only the major tunnels planned. Just think about it, think about what kind of money we're spending. And what do we get left for that? What we do, among other things, once again, we are turning our backs on two UN panels. That's what this transport committee has to think about. We turn our backs on the natural panel when it comes to the degradation of Norwegian nature – there are huge degradations, for example. on Hordfast – and we turn our backs on the climate panel regarding emissions. We have to grab it now, that's now, and then we're sitting here doing the exact same thing as before. We continue as before; we build motorways, we take the large billion projects as performance projects to be carried out with a plan that is three years old or even older. Was SV in on that? Yes, then, we were in government when this was promoted. I think Left knows what it means to sit in government if you have any green ideas. I also hear from Gunnes the representative that he does not feel quite well, like that between the lines, but he says what he has to say. That's the case. I'll get a little bit more to the substance in the next article. I just got a little engaged -- excuse me, President. But I refer to SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6092	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6098	The government has an ambition to bind the West with an upgraded and ferry-free E39. This is an ambition that we have inherited from changing governments. It was Liv Signe Navarsete who launched this idea on behalf of the red-green government, with just SV, the Labour Party and the Center Party. I am pleased that this government, with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, too, is bringing on that ambition, for an enhanced and free E39 will be 47 km shorter than today. Travel time will be halved to about 10.5 hours. So it's going to be possible, for example. To bind Stavanger and Bergen together. Where the travel time today is 4.5 hours, it is then possible to have a travel time of 2 hours between Bergen and Stavanger. The West is one of our largest export regions, and if we listen to what business is saying, we know that infrastructure and linking the construction and labour market regions is what they point to. I would like to stress that the NTP 2018-2029 states: ‘The government will prioritise further planning of the E39, with a focus on developing cost-effective solutions for implementation, and progress must be made, inter alia. depending on technological maturity.» The government has no date for the time we want to complete a free E39. There is no year we see against. But we know that some of these projects are considered to be the best when it comes to socio-economic profitability. Students have also shown it. So we're busy ensuring good progress. SV invites us today to an exciting debate. But as also case-speaker Gunnes said: Right now that debate is going on in our regions. They had a hearing on 14 May. I look forward to the debate here today, but the big debate on this should take place when the national transport plan comes, where we can see what we can prioritise, and what we need to give priority to. And E39 is a project where we all have to look at what we can prioritize. But there is no doubt that when it comes to what is the best projects, based on a professional basis, it points to just E39. I look forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6116	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6121	A follow-up to what I said in my post – politics is priorities, there is more money for one project, of course it has to be reduced to something else – and a little warm-up to the NTP work: the government has asked the county municipalities to make representations on priorities for the next national transport plan, and the county municipalities will respond to that order now in May. The government has been clear that county councils must set clear priorities. So it's not money for everything, and it's going to involve them in the whole process. In county municipalities there have been tough discussions about priorities – we all know that – to respond to the order that is very concrete from the government. When Vestland County now chooses to place E16 Bergen–Voss as priority number one while the Council of State already indicates that he wants to build Hordfast: How much emphasis will the Council of State place on the priorities of the county municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6128	I will make my priorities and my recommendations when we present a national transport plan. Both the representative Constanterune and I are well aware of what the Western states have pointed out in the priority statement. I believe what is happening with the E16 is that there is both a raspberry and a road that in a road safety-perpective is very demanding. There have been a lot of serious accidents, there have been a lot of deadlocks, and that makes it a priority that is easy to understand from the perspective of Western countries. We have just received recordings from the state. I see that I have a meeting with all the states. It's now being added to it. I had actually planned to do it before summer, now it's after summer because of the coronary situation. I look forward to that dialogue. Here we are forced to make priorities. I understand the priority of Westland. However, one may not have to choose from some of the projects that have so far been chosen by the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6135	I understand that reference is made to the NTP as the big discussion – next spring, when it is to be promoted and debated – but it is now time to get some pieces in place. The Council of State also refers to research environments in the field of socio-economic analysis, and I'll say a little more about it in my post afterwards. But there are also strong research environments, such as SINTEF, TØI and others, that have made great contributions to frequent zero-emission ferries as solutions instead. I see that the Council of State writes the following in its letter to the Committee: «The Government recommends that the ongoing investigation and planning work be continued on the projects where it has been started, rather than stopping all planning of holiday relief projects.» But can the Council of State imagine that frequent zero-emission ferries could be planned at the same time, without the other planning stopping?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6147	I mean, looking at different solutions is always wise. This is such a big project, and we should be very conscious before we take the final conclusions. When it comes to looking at the frequency of zero-emission journeys, in the NTP work, we have come very far with just zero-emission journeys today, not least on the national roadway connection, but also on many roadway connections. Norway is very advanced in technology development on it. I believe that for the travellers, the offer is theirs. But we also see that in some areas, the crossing projects – both with tunnels and bridges – provide a very good effect for the travellers. So I think here we have to be able to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. But I'm busy, because I'm going to come up with an NTP, that we don't have to slow down the planning work on the big work – as I promised the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6156	Thank you for that answer from the Council of State. I then record that the Council of State is interested in looking at all the possibilities on all these fjord arms, all the crossings, including frequent zero-emission ferries. My question is whether the Council of States will then take the initiative that it will also happen, from now on to the NTP, so that we get a factual basis to discuss. That's the one question. The second concerns the response of the State Council to the Committee after the SV raised questions through the Committee on the duration of the berths in relation to the capacity increase in current ferry routes. It was pretty important, because we saw that with the growth that is now foreseen in traffic, many of the ferry berths will actually have no capacity. That means that we might have to make big investments before these fjord crossing projects are realized. Does the Council of State view it as a problem, that we invest a lot that we don't need?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6165	We have done a lot of work on the road trip link to zero emissions. I don't mean at all that for the intersections that we think are the longest in time, it's all the more important that we look at good options. We've been working on this technology, and we've closed it down very well. We also see that precisely Norwegian technology – to refer to the previous debate – has made it possible for us to develop good Norwegian solutions to this. And of course, we have to make assessments. If we have to make investments that we benefit from for a very short time, that's a perspective we have to take with us. It is the holistic assessment that is to be based. The questions that have come here, I hope to have a good answer when we get to NTP, where I feel that the real choices and priorities associated with this discussion are to be taken by Stortingen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6172	I thank you for this answer. At least there is a government council that shows more interest in looking at all instruments than perhaps the previous state councils indicated. But then really my follow-up question, in concrete terms, is whether the Council of State will also initiate and initiate the planning of frequent zero-emission ferries on all routes where ferry relief is also planned, so that we have a factual basis. Will the Council of State get it going now, so we have a factual basis to evaluate the NTP when that time comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6179	It's probably very easy to do some of the calculations that the representative pointed to here, and I'm willing to go in and look at that part. But I also want to be open and say that I see that these crossing projects are useful. When I get our budgets to give their best foundation, it's the kind of project they're raising as our best projects based on a socio-economic benefit. This is about travel time. Linking e.g. Bergen and Stavanger together in two hours, when we have today a travel time of four and a half hours, gives a great benefit. This is to link work regions. It is also such that for some projects we have made decisions. Rogfast is a clear project where we have said what the solution is for, and that is to follow up the Storting decision that is my job.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6186	As a FrP politician from Bergen – and not least Hordaland – I know what ferry-free E39 will mean for our region, but not least what it will mean nationally. Here it is about linking work and housing regions closer together. It's about being competitive for the future. It hurt the heart last week to see the majority of Western politicians fail the E39. The same thing happened to a majority in Bergen's city government, where one now actually goes so far that one prioritizes a slump trick over one of the country's most important transportation projects. Will the Council of State stand by its promises of Hordfast from when he was party leader of the Christian People’s Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6194	I agree very much with the introduction of Mr. Hemdal's contribution. I think Hordfast is a project that stands out very well and that gives a unique value to the region – and not just to the region, but also has a national significance. I do not read the image so gloomy, however, at the setting of the Western state. We know that a large minority, with the Right and the Advance Party, is very clear on Hordfast. But also another minority, which is made up of the parties that control, points to that possibility. Even if they don't point to Hordfast himself, they point to the intersection project. I would also like to say that what I am most disagreeable about by the representative, Mr. Hemdal, says in his post, relates to the urban railway project, because it has proved to be a success for Bergen, both urban development and transport. It is precisely this ability to have more thoughts in mind and to prioritize more good projects that are my wish for this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6201	I very much agree with the Council of State that we are going to have more good projects in Bergen and Vestland. We fully agree on that. But that Citybanen is the best project to give priority to one of Norway’s most socially useful transport projects – we disagree there. Not long ago, it was probably last week, it was in the Official Journal of Åsane that there was a referendum on whether or not to want the City Railway to Åsane. It is an overwhelming majority who do not want it. When we're going to prioritize, is it so important to put something on the rails where you've previously torn it up, when what people are really and primarily concerned about is a good collective offer? Should this large project, which is in the interests of the whole nation, be given priority for the benefit of a local trip?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6208	I feel that the urban railway project in Bergen has improved public transport in Bergen. It has also been an urban development project. We see that there are now dwellings in the vicinity of the City Railway, and I experience that it has become one of Bergen's new prides. Those developments hope I can continue. So of course we have to make a priority, and I can't say either Hordfast, E16 or the City Railway here today. That priority should come when NTP comes, and I don't want to start the process of cancelling what I'm experiencing is a good project. We all have to do a priority in the end, and I absolutely thought that the City Railway should be on the list of projects that we consider when we get to NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6215	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6222	This proposal we are examining now is marked by the fact that the proposers do not know the West and therefore do not know the weather conditions in the West, even though one of the proposers is from the West. On the projects within the national transport plan, there are nearly open seas on parts of the route, and when the northwest is on, today’s ferries are actually struggling to maintain the frequency. The Bokenafjord connection, which is to be replaced by Rogfast, is still closed in the winter and zero emission ferries will not be an alternative on this route. Until then, energy consumption will be too large, whether it's hydrogen, electric ferries or other technology. There are technological environments that actually claim that Rogfast will be an environmental project and that emissions will go down with a tunnel option, compared to ferries. In addition, it is also doubtful whether safety will be ensured with autonomy on an open sea route with many passengers on board. The same goes for Björnafjorden and Romsdalsfjorden. Assessment of alternative fjord crossings is a natural part of the assessments underlying the decisions that have been and will be taken in these cases. Clearly, the proposers do not understand that the intercity project in the West is of great value. Unlike the Eastern project, which is fully paid by the State, these projects are almost exclusively financed by tolls. The State contribution does not even cover the VAT paid by the drivers. In fact, these projects are among the highest value-added in the country. There are projects of national value because they lead to increased value creation in the region of the country where large values are already being created, from both aquaculture, fisheries, industry and oil and gas activities. And when the proposal now comes in the middle of two rolls of NTP, I'm actually struggling to take this matter seriously. But it is a good idea to set up an industrial competence centre in the West to deal with such issues. Maritime emission technologies are a long way ahead, and combined with autonomous operations, we can be world leaders in these areas. It is also a good idea to put this somewhere in the West, where you can have close and close contact with both the state road system, research environments and the business community in this important region. We had hoped that more people would have supported our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6237	Let there be no doubt: with the Right in Government, Rogfast shall be carried out. The spade has been in the ground, hundreds of meters have been made with a transverse tunnel, the control work is done, and the project organisation has been ready for many months. Then it is completely incomprehensible and irresponsible of SV now to run a rematch. The project will shorten the journey time between Stavanger and Haugesund/Bergen by 40 minutes. It will allow travellers a simpler everyday life and businesses to cooperate better and create more. The West will be more closely linked and a larger housing and labour market will be created. Yes, Rogfast is actually the country's most socio-economic road project, and of course it will be implemented. Bokenfjorden is today Norway's most busy holiday rental. Every month, tens of thousands of travelers cross the road to work, holidays, family and friends. It is also not a windless bath, but a weather-hard fjord by the North Sea. At regular intervals, winter and storms provide for great delays and settings, and heavy costs are incurred for both people and businesses. Still, someone romanticizes about a future with more ferries and more delays, which is a both short-term and expensive solution. In Rogaland, it will mean that Rennfast, which is the tunnel we have today, with increased traffic volume and more stringent safety requirements, will have to be upgraded for 10-12 billion. kr. In addition, the cost of an increasingly expensive ferry operation, and no matter how many autonomous ferries you put in, they stop going every time it blows more than a stiff culvert. We can't have it between two of the country's most populous counties and the capitals of the West. SV also ignores the investigations by the State Road Agency on climate. Although the construction period of Rogfast and the electric operation of new ferries is included, the tunnel option will produce significantly less climate emissions than the ferry options. The state road service has worked to reduce costs, but it has taken time, and the Right is impatient. I am very pleased that the Minister for Transport is very clear that the project will be carried out. Now it has to work quickly to get it started. We don't need a rematch, we need progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6252	This time SV has broken down the proposal to investigate ferry-free E39 with frequent zero-emission ferries – on all routes. It's a new twist, which we figured out must be all right. Then the representatives could "shop" distances, take out the distances they thought were worst, and actually had the least of them, to say it this way: Which of those projects had the most character of airlocks, and which one didn't? I would like to refer to the research environments with which we have had a lot of contact, Sintef, TØI, and not least Mora Research, which also cast doubt on, for example. whether there will be a common housing and labour market on Møreaksen – with never so little regards to the local representative there. We'll say it like this: with the results of the research that have come, and the research environments that are involved, among other things. on a combination of economic development in the maritime industry, zero-emission technologies on ferries and subsequently also fast boats, environmental considerations and economic development will almost go hand in hand with a green shift if we consider frequent zero-emission ferries. So I want to point to one thing that's quite essential here. The representatives have been able to use and refer to socio-economic analyses, and I have gone into the dark many times. Many representatives use quite uncritical socio-economic analyses. I recommend that everyone interested in Norwegian commerce check the results of Nordic research from 2018 on how socio-economic analyses actually come to fruition. It turns out that they have a clear tendency to get the answers the contracting entity wants. It's pretty scary, it's pretty bad and it actually puts the finger on the independence of research in the transport sector. I especially ask that the Council of State look at the results of Nordic research, and that the department go a little bit into it, because that is actually not good. Then I think we can talk about the gift of fear here, for example. when the representative Hoksrud starts talking about the tourist industry to come and look at the beautiful bridges. Makan! He did not mention the tunnels at all. It will be interesting to drive the tourists in Rogfast and in Møreaksen – under the fjord! That's what I think attracts the tourists to the Norwegian fjords! I wouldn't mention tourism if I was the representative of Hoksrud. There's actually a point here that's pretty important: the tourist industry probably doesn't want to be sleepy E39.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6263	I think I almost have to bring the representative Nävra on a little ferry trip along the West Coast. It's almost sleepless already, because they've stopped selling swells, unfortunately, on the ferries. One gets something wrapped in plastic that tastes rather bad. I just want to comment on some of these claims that have emerged. One would like to refer to many research environments, etc., but it is a fact that if one reduces travel time between Mold and Ålesund, for example, from one hour and three quarters down to maybe three quarters by building a ferry-free solution, then building a larger housing and labour market, then building a united region, and then also helping to create new values and opportunities. That’s exactly what’s the whole point – and investigations have been made, both for that project and for other projects related to continuing ferry operations. However, no matter how autonomous the ferry is or how often it goes, it will in any case not provide the same reduction in travel time and the same possibility of building the housing and labour market as it does a fixed connection. That is the difference, and that is why this is so important for these Western environments. Creating new housing and labour markets, expanding existing housing and labour markets, creating a basis for new value creation – that is the point. I'm also a little surprised by the climate accounting, because if you look at these projects, one might assume that at least the three priorities of today's national transport plan will be completed in perhaps ten years' time. In ten years! Then one cannot use today’s technological solutions that roll on our roads to assess the climate impact – when these projects are completed in 10 years’ time. I am quite convinced – at least from what we see will be technological developments and from the changes that are taking place in the transport sector now, that large parts of our fleet will be free of emissions in 10 years. But it is possible that the level of ambition of SV is lower in that area. So a little visit to the Center Party: To me, it is now completely unclear what the Centre Party believes about an upgraded and ferry-free E39, a project launched in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. When not even the Centre Party can go into a comment that points out that the priorities of today's national transport plan are fixed, I have to say that at least there is considerable uncertainty about what the Centre Party believes about this important project. What does the Central Party think about building up an upgraded and ferry-free E39, when what is being signaled both from this pulpit and in various hearing opinions that I have seen from several teams, is so unclear? Rematching these types of projects, for which one has been perpetrated in the national transport plan, means only one thing: that one wants a postponement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6277	I am recording that the representative Nävra is actually in the ‘return party’. Before 2013, when the red-green government presented their proposal for a national transport plan, they stood in the West and boasted of how great this would be. It was like the big project. So now the representative Nävra and his party are the big opponent of thinking new, doing things in a smart way and using technology – using business, which is now struggling and needs new projects. Here's a ready-to-use new project with opportunities, if you take them. Then the party of the representative of Nävra voted in favour of Ryfast, where one has a giant tunnel, which was even far outside the EU's requirements at the time. We were a little more critical of it, but I think it might be good to drive both in tunnels and on fine bridges and see the possibilities. Actually, it's also going to be possible to drive around a little bit if you're a tourist and you want to do it. But for business, infrastructure is about quickly getting the goods to where they are going, and out to the markets, without extra mass. Then it's actually having to stand on a ferry and wait for the next ferry, or maybe wait several hours before the next ferry comes, which means something to business around. In addition, it means a great deal to the housing and labour markets, which are magnified by building these kind of exciting projects, which are highly socio-economically profitable. I'm much more optimistic, and I want to use the business that now has challenges, to help lift Norwegian traffic, and let tourists come and see amazing bridges and amazing roads. Then others can come to us, so we don't have to travel to others to see. We can rather let them come here and see, and then we make money on the tourists and make sure that our business has good competitive advantage by building and by being forward-looking. This is an opportunity. So SV continues to be a step back and try to work against this as much as possible. And then I hope the vast majority you have on Stortinget who want to be forward-looking, and want to use the business community to build this exciting project -- that it's still like that. The four-year priorities of the National Transport Plan will provide the basis for priority projects and project number two, three, etc. But I think this is exciting, and I think it gives some possibilities. The possibility of reducing costs has also been considered. We glory in business, which is offensive, and which wants something, and which sees new opportunities, actually also opportunities to export this amazing technology, when we get that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6288	I'm doing a little bit of hospitality in this context, after Stokkebø had an post that I noticed. Then it struck me that it seems as if the entrance to transport for the transport committee's plurality in this matter is the road as the goal in itself, while this with nourishment comes back as something – like the round we now had about travel life. It was not exactly the sharpest analyses of the need for travel life that led to that article. Nutrition was only used as an extra point for the goal, which was the road. What may have surprised me most about the ferry-free E39 is that one doesn't have an industrial perspective at all. So here we have the representative Helge Orten, a sensible man from a very exciting state, with long yard traditions and industrial traditions in general, More and Romesdal, traditions that stretch far back, before it was decided that it would be built here or there, which have come up from the bottom of, into the ocean gap. What is it that industry needs? Well, he needs a strong home market to build ships. What do they need? They don't need transport politicians on the Stortinget to try to do everything we can to build ourselves away from the sea – and to rely on solutions that at least don't use the sea as a means of transport, that we shouldn't establish the strong home market for the development of world-class short sea shipping, the home market that can make the yard industry from Saudi and beyond, in a world-class way, develop the new technology. There are potentially billions here for the Norwegian industrial environment, and then we're going to build ourselves away from the sea, that there should be no ferry, that there should be no transport along the coast. Rather, one should run along the roads, so that one can run American, German or Japanese imported cars, instead of using Norwegian-produced industrial raw materials at sea. It surprises me that one does not see these contexts. Rogaland has great possibilities. There is now a deep crisis and really needs decisions from the Storting to help the shipyard industry, starting with projects that point in the opposite direction. Here is a possibility to be in the front international with the new green shipping, developed in Norway, in the Norwegian shipyard environment, but then the Norwegian home market collapses with this type of decision. I'll give all the honor to the party to Hoksrud in order at least to be consistent in their relations. They support Nord-Noregbanen, with arguments about creating new transport solutions – unlike the place’s party and the Labour Party, which does not want to realise Nord-Noregbanen, a project that has a socio-economic profitability that is significantly larger than the vacation-free E39.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6299	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6305	Yeah, it's going to be very short, but that's the way one takes the other. SV's historic achievements in the red-green government didn't feel so close, I've been here for three and a half years now. I think the Progress Party learned a little bit in its six years now from SV in its period, but it must be. What I was thinking about when I heard Hoksrud talk about those who were overwhelmed with new technology was: Is four motorways a preconceived technology? Are frequent zero-emission ferries, which can go on autonomously, forewardly or old-fashioned? I don't think Trygve Bratteli or Anders Lange knew what would happen when it came to autonomous zero-emission solutions. So it's clear that things have changed. And if we don't take into account the technology that's changing, and at the same time takes into account a business life that needs a shift, a green shift in maritime nutrition, I don't understand who's premeditated or maybe has worn backsoles.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6316	I thought I'd take the floor for what the committee chairman, Helge Orten, said, and just make it clear that, of course, we are on the decisions in the NTP, as far as the E39 is concerned. I think I said that quite clearly also in my post. But I also said that it wasn't just about ferry-free E39, it was about doing something between the ferries, which also needs priority. That debate we hear very little about, because it's actually a lot of the road section that absolutely needs to be given priority, perhaps even before finding the ferry-free alternatives. Then I have understood in my wisdom that there are quite a number of people working from a perspective that the solutions of the future are not necessarily exactly what the solutions are today, or that have been the premises when this was planned in the previous NTP. This is also stated in the majority observations on this matter; it is quite clear there. It is referred to the Committee of Experts and the need to look at new technological solutions. If you read what the sample has written, it says, for example. autonomous ferries shall be part of that assessment. I will assume that, among other things, The left, as part of the government, it seems perfectly right that it is so in that majority comment. If we mean something about giving assignments to someone who's going to look at the solutions of the future, they have to be allowed to do it without us sedentating it in this debate. And I very much agree with both the Council of State and others that exactly that discussion we're going to take when we're going to do the total priorities of the NTP. There is no doubt that for many of the solutions, the fjord crossings, it will be the right decision. In terms of socio-economic analyses, which have been a mantra for many, we also see that there may be moments there that will look a little different in the future than it is now. So we're perfectly clear that the leaders given for the E39 are firm, but we also see the possibility of adjusting it when there are new solutions on the table that we can decide on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6325	It was the representative of Knag Fylkenes who made me feel a little irritated when he almost accused the majority parties of using nutrition as an excuse to build a road. Nutrition is the reason why we build a road. In my previous life, at my previous employer, we were burdened and broken in LO and NHO to work intensively to get the ferry-free E39 as a project. We were in the Vandrehallen and handed over letters. Unfortunately, the Council of State was not available as the committee chairman was then, but at least he got the letter, where the whole business strongly encouraged it. Nutrition is the reason for building, not an excuse for building. I can comfort the representative Knag Fylkesnes that there are far more ferries in Norway than on the three sections that are now inside the NTP, so there is no reason to believe that there will be no progress on the ferry front. It is therefore gratifying that SV supports the proposal on technology centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6332	The representative Helge Orten has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6337	It's going to be 1 minute, it's going to be 1 minute, it's going to be 1 minute, it's I just want to add a little visit to the representative Knag Fylkesnes, because it is quite obvious that in all my work in transport and transport, it has been about what we are going to achieve in building this infrastructure. What are we going to achieve by building new roads or building regions together? – That’s exactly what’s the whole point. Why are we building Hordfast and Rogfast? Well, because we want to build a housing and labour market, create greater attractiveness, make it easier to recruit people to work in these important industries and make life and everyday life easier for people. The same is true in my country by building the Møreak: building a region that is valuable, that the country needs and that people in that region need, precisely in order to create attractiveness enough to recruit enough people to build these smart solutions, this new technology and these new vessels that we need for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6344	I can give the place right in that very much of the road construction in Norway actually contributes to nutrition. I mean, it's opening doors. That's also completely agreeable. But in this case I mean that one has gone completely off the handle. Then we're on to what Stortinget's best bass, Langholm Hansen, the representative from Rogaland, is inside. In this case, one is willing to use totally unimaginable resources from the community to build industry. So the question is, what is the alternative here? What can the option create? It has not been evaluated because one has not considered that there is not only a way to create nourishment. Building ships in this case creates much more nourishment. That's my statement. We're at a time when we all want to make ourselves even more dependent on the sea as a transport year, because we're never going to export some transport solutions when it comes to road from Norway, at least not in our time. There's no country out there that's going to buy road solutions from Norway. On the other hand, there is an enormous export value in marine solutions, in ship solutions. In this case, it would be much better to invest in the new modes of transport at sea. We're a nation that's going to move closer to the sea. We want to be in front technologically to develop new solutions for transport at sea, whether it's zero emissions, low emissions or fast boats, slow boats, autonomous boats – you name it. We have the know-how. We are in the situation that the paint industry and the environments of competence that exist, whether they make batteries or hulls or what it is, wear. They need a mission. And then you crash on further and the home market collapses by insisting that there is only a way that creates nourishment. As I think I'll ignore some of the most important environments in Norway in the future, the industrial environment, the yard, the supplier industry and the bridge this may be for them if we doubt that we'll continue to bet on the ocean transport roads instead of that they collapse. One can only think, with the costs we're up to now – total of the free E39, we're up to 500 billion. kr or something like that, no one knows – that if any of it, let's just say 10 pst. Of that, had led to the assignment of Norwegian shipyards, we would have gone into a golden age for them. But it doesn't matter. For this reason, I am convinced that one has seen far too much on the road as the only way to nourishment, and not the sea as the road to nourishment, which is Norway's future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6355	I don't think it's the last time we talk about neither road construction nor ship construction, which was mentioned in the last article here now, and I think this has a context. We're talking about a common living and working area, and then we have to set things right, so that you can actually build ships and carry valuable goods. The salmon industry is an industry of growth in trøndelag and also across the coast. It has led to a huge need for road construction, and we must have two thoughts in our heads at the same time. I think there has been a debate that has been quite wide-ranging, to say the least, and that is not the last debate on this area. I am happy now, when we have received the priority proposals of the trade unions, and we have received the priority proposals of the county councils. Now they're going to be processed a little bit in the Department of Transport, and we're going to start processing the rolling of the next NTP. I really look forward to that. And it's clear that these questions that SV raised in this proposal, we're going to include a lot more times, and now in retrospect we see that SV might have been a little early trying to make a decision on these issues. But to the representative Arne Nävra, we can say that we are coming back, and we are going to debate this more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6362	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6367	The representative Knag Fylkesnes should look up the following clusters on the web: Norwegian Tunnel Safety Cluster. It is a cooperative body for companies, industry and agencies that work together to develop tunnel safety equipment. So this is also going to be the value creation of. So in addition to that, Ryfast is the longest underground tunnel in the world. A choice from abroad — until the Corona arrived — to look at the solutions used there. It is incredibly good, and in fact this contributes to green conversion for many companies that depended entirely on the oil and gas business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6374	The representative of Knag County talks about money use, but it is his own party who here has to explain to the voters about his irresponsible use of money, why it is right – when a project is started, when the spade is put into the ground, and when the project organisation is ready – to take a rematch that engenders and delays a project, why it is right to cancel the most socio-economic project in Norway, and why it is right to use a lot of resources to upgrade, for example. Ten-billion-dollar race fast. NOK 12 billion. and pay large sums in an increasingly expensive ferry operation in the region. It is very touching to hear Knag Fylkesnes’ care for the yard in Sauda that will build ferries, a yard that otherwise does not exist. But what exists, on the other hand, is a construction industry in Rogaland that is now experiencing a jobless situation. Here we have a ready-to-use project, the control plan is ready, we have day-to-day facilities on White Island where the spade can be set in the ground tomorrow if it will, and which will contribute to significant activity and be an effective counter-cyclical measure. So the representative suggests that we should wait a few years to build a ferry. It's not on your fingertips. Now we need progress and no more fights about this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6381	Torgeir Knag County has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6387	It is quite correct that there is no yard in Sauda, and I never claimed that – there can be a check in the referata. But my point is that more than one yard is needed to create a ship. There maybe the representative Stokkebø can get into the process, that when a builds a ship, deliveries are something that the industrial environment in Saudi are absolutely contributing to, especially if a consistently well-known Norwegian material, material that has low emissions by itself, and consistently seeks to set up purchases in such a way that one actually uses the industrial environments we have. Then one has to use the entire width of the Western industrial environment to get it done. The representative Stakkebø asks why it is important to stop this project now. The answer to that is that it is unwise. It is probably quite incomprehensible to the representative Stokkebø that there is someone who thinks it is unwise, but we are someone who thinks it is unwise, and then it is right to say stop. I can explain it bilaterally if it's hard to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6394	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6412	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6419	I would like to thank the Committee for the good work and cooperation in this matter, where SV wants to build so-called two- and three-field motorways instead of four-fields. It is not surprising that SV does not want to build for the future. Nor is it surprising that SV prefers rail and other collective solutions rather than ensuring that the drivers and trucks can arrive safely, safely and quickly. But it's surprising that SV wants to spend billions of tax dollars building poor, undersized roads based on yesterday's needs and not on tomorrow's and future needs. It's like going backwards into the future. Then it is actually better and more reasonable as SV was in the old days. Then they wouldn't build that much roads, then they were more concerned with just prioritizing trains and collectives. At least you have not wasted money out of the window by using taxes on undersized roads that have to be repaired after a few years. But there might be a little bit of logic in SV's proposal. They might have hoped or thought that they would be able to bring the bulk of the population to a stop to the historic process – building secure, secure, forward-looking networks of four-field highways between the largest cities and the largest regions – which the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are now implementing. But there was a big mistake – even their old governmentmates in the Workers' Party and the Center Party agree that we need to build for the future. The representative Myrli of the Workers' Party, who is otherwise a wise man, and his party colleagues are also clear that we must not continue the piecewise, divided and undersized way of building up the national road network on which unfortunately their previous government periods were affected. It is gratifying that a large majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Left, agree on the following comments: ‘Building undersized roads is not a good social economy, with new measures to be implemented after a few years. There are several examples of road projects that have been built with 2/3 fields, which shortly after completion have had to be converted into four-field roads to address capacity needs. This has resulted in unnecessary disadvantages for travellers and unnecessary increased costs for the State.» It's a pleasure to see that such a large majority of the Biggest has now finally realized this. It is not only the government's policy to build for the future, but fortunately also the Labour Party's and obviously also the Center Party's policy. It becomes as simple as that if you need a double garage, you don't build a single garage to tear it down in a few years and then expand it to a double garage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6437	It is good to boast of the Workers' Party's view of the case rapporteur. The working party is concerned that transport solutions must also be dimensioned according to future needs. Road, sea and track investments must be seen in a coherent way, analyses of the transport needs of road life must be part of the decision-making basis, and the zero vision of fatalities and injuries in traffic must always be at the root of. Therefore, we believe that the basic work and the process of working on the national transport plan are important, and we have the same view on this matter as in the previous case. In the national transport plan and its basis, we have technological, climate and professional assessments. That's where we're going to do our priorities, and that's where one has to decide the dimensions. We also believe that climate, environmental and spatial considerations need to be taken more into account now than in the past. That is why the Workers' Party is involved in a proposal together with the SV: ‘The government is asking for a greater assessment of climate and environmental and spatial considerations in the construction of new roads, and asks the government to develop new guidelines, taking more account of this throughout the project phase, from the design phase to the completion stage.’ This means that proposal No. 1, of which the working party is part, taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6451	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6456	Society relies on good and efficient infrastructure to ensure greater mobility and freedom of movement for its citizens. Good infrastructure is important for value creation throughout the country and for connecting construction and labour regions. By building efficient infrastructure, we ensure that people and goods arrive quickly and safely at home. Meeting accidents are the main challenge on the national road network. The establishment of new handrails and reinforced midpoint markings are very important measures. For this reason, the government has ensured the extensive development of the road of traffic-safe quadruple with the middle parts. In the last few years, we have had historically few serious injuries and fatalities in traffic. This shows that the measures are working. Safe Traffic draws in its recordings example from Eastfold, where the number of killed and hard damage is reduced by 75 pst. after E6 got the full motorway standard on the route. The right is concerned that the transport solutions must be dimensioned according to the need. Building roads that are undersized is not a good social economy, with new measures to be implemented after a few years. There are several examples of road projects built as two- and three-field roads that have been designed to be converted into four-field roads to address capacity needs shortly after completion. This has led to unnecessary disadvantages for travellers and unnecessary costs for the State. The state road system has also worked out narrow four-field roads as an alternative to two- and three-field roads, and it is assessed whether this should be a separate standard in road standards. Of course, road safety and social benefits are being taken care of in the project. Long-term development and traffic needs must be taken into account when dimensionalising the roads. Nor should the size be restricted to specific sectoral solutions and favour one rather than the other. Locking down to specific solutions at political level increases the risk of misinvestment. When developments in a few years' time can also make it possible to get road transport without greenhouse gas emissions, they could challenge climate-based investments in rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6467	Norway relies on good and efficient infrastructure to ensure mobility and freedom of movement for its citizens. Good infrastructure is important for the creation of value throughout the country by linking this country in housing and working regions, and transport solutions must be dimensioned according to the need. What is at the heart of this proposal is the need to dimension transport solutions. It is not a good economy to build either undersized roads or, for that matter, oversized roads. The size has five objectives for the development, operation and maintenance of the road network in Norway, defined in the NTP. It's affordable, it's easier to travel and it's more competitive for business, it's more for money, it's efficient use of technology, it's zero for dead and hard damage, and it's going to help meet Norway's climate and environmental objectives. The objectives are, as I said, reflected in the national transport plan. Distribution considerations, not only socio-economic analyses, are very important in decisions on transport projects. In this respect, distributional considerations should be given a more prominent place in professional investigations, otherwise geographical differences will continue to increase. I want to clarify what I said about the professional challenges that also have to be met. I'm not afraid the politicians won't. There are several examples of road projects that have been built as two- and three-fields that have had to be converted into four-field roads shortly after completion. We have seen too many examples of this, and it must not happen in the future. It has to be that you take into account a capacity requirement, and that's what's going to be governing the standard you choose to use. There is no doubt – if we want more money, it is the future needs that need to be put in the centre. As an alternative to two- and three-field roads, the state road system and the Nye Weger have explored narrow four-field roads. There's a little bit of a difference between them -- the dimension is a little bit different. One is 20 meters wide, the other is 19 meters wide. It also has something to do with a mid pull and how much space it will take. I think it's an important part of the future that you have some road normals to choose from. Then you can choose whether to have a full four-field, a narrow four-field, a two-/three-field, or whether it is a yellow stripe that is the most important. That's the long-term needs we have to look at. The challenge today is often to look at the socio-economic analyses before deciding which road projects to prioritise, and then to forget that there are other needs to be met. I'm addressing proposal No. 2, which we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6484	The representative Bengt Fasteraune then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6489	In SV we have an honest and factual background for this proposal, and I have tried to explain, repeatedly, from this pulp in many transport debates that we are not allergic to the road. We've never been. SV is a road party – for the districts. We are starting from three points – firstly, climate and environment. That's priority number one. We have to bring that with us. It is this committee that sits largely here in the Chamber today, which determines very many of the steps we can take with regard to greenhouse gas emissions. We know that. One third of our emissions come from the transport sector. It's vital. At the same time, we're behind a lot of the land degradation that the UN's natural panel is concerned about. It is this committee in Norway that determines much of that decline. So this we have to bring with us. We can take some action, and then I have registered that we don't. Then we have a reason: we have to get the best possible way for the money, and then we have to build safe and safe and functional roads. That's our starting point. I see a lot of scoffing at this. We have a tendency, as I have said before, to build wide and not very far. It's the mantra of the majority here in the hall to a large extent. Much of the money goes to build wide. Think of what we could get for every billion on narrow western roads, or on the county roads, which have a aftermath of perhaps 50 billion dollars to 60 billion dollars. kr only in maintenance. We also see that to a greater extent now some stations and lots start to play with entering four-field motorways already where ÅDT, the annual traffic, is about 8 000. And in important corridors I notice that there are four-field highways that are built first, never modern two-track railway – never! Think about it. At best, it's being built at the same time, like the Ringerix Railway and the E16, if we get the cake that we were going to use. And we have an example of that along Mjösa, joint project. And one has planned Arna–Voss, K5. But never two-track railway first. By taking these grips, it means that we have an effective means of turning the base away from the railway. So we're doing the opposite of what we should have done: build the railway first and look at the size of the road afterwards. So I'm going to go into these suggestions in the next article. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6508	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6514	This is probably a road debate on the initiative of SV. They're becoming the road party. The representative Nävra well described it as well, especially in the districts, I heard. What are the ‘districts’ — you can ask yourself that. How far out of town are you going before you get to the district? The left is particularly concerned that the business community should have good infrastructure to carry goods, and not least the goods on which they have produced, so that we can obtain income, whether domestic or foreign. Roads have often been cut short because we increase the quantity of goods and the production of some goods that require better road capacity. For the Left, it is incredibly important to ensure road safety. This is done partly by building a road with the middle parts. I also believe that the four-field road is good on many routes, because then there is room for both passenger car traffic, public transport and commercial traffic. We all know that they don't always run as fast, and so there can be good solutions. But the tunnels may be the most important thing. We have some road sections in Trøndelag, especially from Trondheim town and northwards, which have partly long tunnel sections, and they are two-fielded without middle parts today. I'm afraid we can have an accident there. It will have major consequences, because the car density is up to 20 000 ÅDT. We can't have such a situation, we have to build a new one. Fortunately, new roads have engaged themselves, and it quickly came up on a high priority list when you started looking at that road section. I'm glad that that solution was chosen there, even though the solution that is there today is only 20 years old. So the need for a new roadway solution in that area has exploded. A majority of the committee is behind a comment where we write about natural resources and soil protection. I'm very happy that all parties except the Advance Party are on that note. It surprises me that the Progress Party will not take part in a comment on assessing soil protection and natural resources when we choose the weather forecast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6527	We use a lot of resources, and we build a lot of roads in this country, and I'm glad. What I know is that we are building the right road, with the right dimensioning, both for what we need now, and for what we need in the future. Because if we do that, we act wisely, and we see the healing. When we spend so much money on road development, while we know that the need for the development of the road network is very great across the country, it is important that we build with a standard and a dimensioning that gives the most return for the money, while we build for the future. The government wants what we build today to produce benefits for our road users for many years to come. I think it's important that we at regular intervals take a discussion about how we build the best possible for the future. Then I think there's four considerations it's very important to focus on. First of all, how we get the most for the resources we use, how we get the most for the money. The second need is road safety. The third is that we build an infrastructure that adapts to technological developments, that we see opportunities for the future. The fourth – not least – is that we build and take care of the environment. I appreciate very much that this question is raised in Stortinget today. I think that's a possibility. I would like to say that the Ministry of Transport in recent years has worked very hard to see how we can develop them so-called road normals. We want to turn all the stones around to see how we can build the most forward-looking roads in the best possible way. One of the tasks assigned to the State Road Service is to meet alternative standards on roads with annual traffic between 6000 and 20,000. The distribution was completed last fall. Then she was sent on the phone. There are 35 entries, and the Road Service is now in the final phase of this work. I look forward to it and will go into it thoroughly when I get it. When it comes to the assessment of the railway to replace the four-field motorway on sections where there is a parallel railway today, I will show that this is in line with the practice we have today within what we call the State’s project model – the KVU/KS regime. So there's a bunch of lines where a person does that kind of assessment. Finally, it is important that we look at the climate, environmental and spatial dimensions of this important work, but my conclusion is that we have to take the right dimensions on those roads. It's our responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6545	Annual traffic and socio-economic analyses have been a mantra both in this government and in previous governments, analyses that are actually tailored to major road projects in key areas. At the same time, in the rest of Norway, there is a significant downturn in maintenance, and not least road projects that do not reach these estimates are systematically outsourced. What conditions other than annual traffic and socio-economic analyses do the Council of State focus on when decisions are taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6552	I think that traffic and socio-economic benefits are good tools for assessing projects, but we who are in this room need to see a wholeness and have a health perspective. It's a good tool that we can take with us. For example, if we: looking at the recordings from the State Road Administration, North Norway wouldn't be particularly good, if we were to follow the slavish assessment they gave. It's our job to have that health perspective, and that's what I intend to do when we set our priorities. Then I want to say that when it comes to maintenance, there is an area I want to give praise to the Progress Party. It was a Progress Party-State Council that took action to reverse that development, and I thought he was intriguing. We see that the maintenance run is large, both on highways and, not least, on highways. It is all their responsibility to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6559	It's good that there are other things to consider. It has been a reality, and perhaps especially with regard to the portfolio of New Roads, that these socio-economic analyses and annual traffic are being given emphasis. The Gudbrand valley was mentioned here in an earlier debate. There, Nye Veger was responsible for completing a project on the E6 north of Øyer, and then it would be gone in the well-being. Everyone knows there's a limited daily traffic. The road pays people tolls on, and they've been doing it for three or four years, maybe longer. It is not within the portfolio of Nye Veier, I have checked that. When New Roads are asked about this, they say that it is not a priority. Why does this happen, and what does the Council of State intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6564	When it comes to New Roads, they have their projects, and they add up the portfolio and the order they want. I'm not going to go into that. It's part of the concept behind New Roads that we've given them that freedom, and then they use that freedom to do optimally what they're doing from a professional level I think is the right extension. It has been shown that we have a lot left for the resources we use in New Roads. I'm not going to go into the portfolio of New Roads, the projects that are there. So, of course, we can discuss, when we come to the National Transport Plan, what we're going to do in New Roads, but so far it's New Roads that determine the speed and order of the projects they have. It's part of the concept of New Roads, and it's been a successful concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6571	That's exactly the part that worries me, especially the last one. I have no doubt that when New Veger starts up and builds roads, they are incredibly competent to do so. There's no doubt about it. There I think the Vegvesen has learned a lot, and I think many others have learned a lot. But when it comes to priorities, this is very special. This was a project that the State Road Administration had, and then it was stopped because of increased costs. So it was said by one of the previous state councils that this had to be addressed by New Veier, because then it was fixed. It was done, and then you meet afterwards, saying that they have nothing to prioritize the projects of Nye Veier. This is a very special case, and I ask again: is it possible to look at it again and look at the history? It's the history that's important here, and it was the State Road Administration that started.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6576	I'm familiar with the case, and I also know history. Now this has been added as part of the portfolio of New Roads, so I think it's the structure they've laid down, and there's a structure that's been adopted here in Stortinget. I agree with what the representative Constanteraune points out, that New Vegar is doing a good job, but the State Road Service has got a positive result from that competition. Without comparison, it's kind of like when TV2 came, it gave NRK a positive effect. It's actually what I experience when it comes to road development today. We have two units that work very well, both the State Road Service and the New Roads, but I stick fully to those principles. I'm not going to break the principles associated with New Roads, because then, of course, it will be so that I will immediately enter the portfolio management of New Roads. It has been said by the Storting that it determines New Vegar.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6581	I am very pleased with the state council's open attitude to road sizes, and it seems sincere when he says that he will go into this with – let's say – open, new and fresh eyes. I'm very, very happy about that, and I look forward to the NTP debate in that area too. Proper dimensioning of the roads – yes, what is it now? The State Council referred to the study from the State Road Administration from October last year, and we have also referred to it in SV. It says that the traffic can be properly closed up to 15 000 ÅDT on two- and three-field roads. Will the Council of State take it up and actually be able to follow such a recommendation and seriously consider having two- and three-field roads that are roadworthy – with middle parts – up to 15 000 ODD?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6588	Here, the State Road Administration or the Road Directorate will provide a professional assessment. So I'm skeptical about making that kind of rules and saying that under 15 000 ÅDT we shouldn't do it that way. When we point out that we're going to build a proper dimensioning, I'm going to listen to what's our authority here, that's the Road Directorate and the State Road Service. That's why I'm very excited about what advice we get from the State Road Administration about this. We know that there is a road director who has a background from New Vegar. They've made their own experiences, and I hope one takes it with them. But initially, I'm going to listen to the technical advice I'm getting, I've been thinking that it's not a bum who's going to sit and determine the dimensions on the roads. I think that's actually a professional problem, and I've really thought of listening to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6594	I thank you for that answer, but it is now such that a Council of State should have the overview. It's a road director who works by road, and a railway director who works by rail. That's the way it is. Also on the water you have your own faculties. The Council of State will then coordinate, assess, give priority to politics and adopt an opinion. The question concerns the growth from which we are going to build. Should we accept that the growth continues as before on the road? It's a key question. Let's think about 20 years ahead of time and put the ruler fairly straight – that's what it's been before, and that's how it keeps going? Should we not take action – this is a question directly to the Council of State – that will cause the growth of traffic to decline, so that we no longer rest on the growth that follows a straight ahead? Then he can at the same time bring with him the idea, when he's going to answer, that we probably need less space on the roads in a modern age where the cars start talking together and a need less space on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6601	I believe the representative of Nävra is quite right. We're going to have questions about dimensioning, precisely because we get driverless cars, we get cars that talk together. What does it do with the capacity? What does it do to what we're going to need? Would it really be better to have only four-field roads because of the automation we see? I mean, listening to the profession is very important in that way. Then we can discuss in a climate and environmental perspective, but we also know that the cars to go there – yes, all cars sold from 2025 – will be zero-emission cars. We're actually in front of the form when it concerns the sale of zero-emission cars, so we're actually getting a future perspective here that makes us get new questions. But I mean what I'm saying: I think that just listening to the professional environment here makes us wise. We have built a road in the past that has proved to be very crazy, like the road Lwigal-Fleckfjord, which opened in 2006, but is too small today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6608	I am well aware of the background of the Council of State as Minister for the Environment, and that means that the Council of State certainly includes some assessments of real requirements, environmental considerations and climate considerations in baggage into the role of Minister of Transport. Sees the state council that four-field roads are incredibly land-consuming, not least in relation to the construction of the railway, e.g.? Then we're back to my big question, about solutions, concept choices, both for roads and for the major transport choices between rail and road in our major transport years. Will the State Council in the future consider rail more as an alternative to important corridors, both in terms of land requirements, environment, emissions, etc., rather than in terms of quadruple roads connecting the parts of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6613	Yes, we have to look at this, but I'm not sure when, for example, a one-sided negative stamp on what's called a narrow four-field road. Looking at the width of two and three-field paths up to the width of a narrow four-field path, the width is not much larger. Then I thought it was natural to challenge the professional environment: what does automation do? What kind of road is wise to build? It's important that we now build for the future, and I think that with the zero emission cars we get, we're also going to get an increase, precisely because the climate-friendly cars will also increase the activity, and it could also be acceptable from a climate perspective. When you can sit in a car, when you can work in that car and don't run it yourself, the activity and car usage may also increase. That's the health assessment we have to look at, and that's why a proper dimensioning is what I think it's important to point out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6618	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6623	I will go back to the majority comment from the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the Left – otherwise a very good comment: ‘This majority also draws attention to the fact that the State Road Service has identified narrow four-field roads as an alternative to 2/3-field roads, and the majority is positive that it should be established as a separate standard in road standards.’ It is gratifying that the peasant party of the Center also wants to build a safe and secure four-field network of motorways for the future, as, moreover, all other Western countries, including the United States, did over a generation ago, and so did the whole of Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Asia as soon as they had an economic opportunity to do so. But I'm a little bit unsure of what the Center Party really means, because it doesn't seem like they're completely in agreement with themselves. They have comments and comments about the two- and three-field and four-field paths a little bit in the setting. And in the proposal they promote, there are some reservations that are not as reasonable as regards the conditions to be met in order to be allowed to build a quadruple road, and the assumptions that have to be taken into account. There are so many terms and conditions that even SV is satisfied and is involved in a joint proposal with the Center Party. Then it should have called a bell at the Central Party district party, but it obviously doesn't. The point is, whether or not to take into account all the assumptions required by the Central Party and SV in proposal No. 2, it will not be built many meters with a new, safe and secure four-field motorway in Norway in the future. We in the Progress Party believe that SV is completely on the ground in this matter. Another batch that has to be far out on the ground somewhere is the Center Party, because they've always had soil protection as their largest jawpowder. It's neat and straightforward for a peasant party, but when they start to drag in so crazy a lot of other conditions and prerequisites to build the four-field highway, I'm quite surprised. If all these reservations are to be taken into account, not many of the Central Party district electors around the country are being satisfied. At least they do not enjoy being able to drive on a secure, secure and forward-looking network of four-field motorways. Road networks are essential for growth, employment, housing and the development of Norway as a whole. I also want to remind you that these are not just empty words from the Central Party, because they had a proposal earlier in the spring where they actually proposed to build a two- or three-field E6 past Lillehammer. So it's not just empty words – it's real politics, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6639	We notice that this debate is kind of following classic – or historical – dividing lines, as we are used to, where SV stands on one side and thinks a little more, I believe, in future and next generations, and in the environment and nature than the Progress Party does. I may be missing some effort and some posts here from some of the biggest batches about the sector that is going on environment and climate, land requirements, etc. There are some points here that we in the Committee on Transport, who have a responsibility for this sector, must take us further into the debate. First of all, there are energy requirements for these cars and land requirements for the roads. It was said that electric cars are coming at once: yes, that's enough, and zero emission solutions: yes, that's enough. Then we see at the same time that there will be a battle for energy, whether it be electric cars or fossil cars – that's the way it is. Also the fossil cars will look after each phase, it looks like, and fortunately for that. But at the same time there will be a fight for energy, and it will also use electric cars – remember that – and not least hydrogen cars, if that's what we're getting at. It's also like an electric car takes the same amount of space as a fossil car. All of this we have to take with us. There's no sedentary, sedentary, problem solved, by building many highways and putting many zero emission solutions on them. It's not that simple. There's a lot of other considerations to take at the same time. I've referred to the State Road Service, so I shouldn't repeat that, given what they say, if you're going to lean on the department's professional investigations – and you should – in connection with the 15 000 ADT that I talked about. So that's the point of road safety, which I actually forgot to frame up as an important premise in my introduction. It's also absolutely crucial for us, of course. It is a zero vision for traffic fatalities – this is what it should be. But then the middle parts on the two/three-field road, or what separates traffic physically, are very effective. In fact, it is safer with two- and three-field roads with middle parts than with the narrow highway, the State Road Service has concluded that as far as I have got with me. The Progress Party says we're going to build for the future. The representative Johnsen says it: build for the future. I don't think the representative Johnsen gets so many young voters who are concerned about the climate, busy asking the big questions about the future. Everything will continue as before in the world of the Advance Party. I think it's very sad that the Progress Party does not take over any of the currents that are in relation to the big threats in the world. It's just as if it's completely boasting, like from teflon, in the speech of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6656	I think it's important to note what this proposal really is about. When the representative Johnsen believes that all roads in Norway should be four-field motorways, he is wrong. I think he knows that, too. When we write that different conditions are to be considered when building a road, that's what's in our proposal. He doubted it and wondered if it would then be built something more quadruple highway. We ask that annual traffic be taken into account. I think Johnsen is also right. Normalised road standards are what we are really talking about here – whether it should be extended, whether the narrow four-field motorway should be an alternative to the two- and three-field road where appropriate. I assume that he also agrees. Costs I'm a little uncertain as to whether he's at all related to, but I'm going to assume that he does, too. That's maybe a point he's wondering a little bit about what it means, and it's existing road capital. That's how to take advantage of the road body that's already lying there. Soil protection he mentioned himself. Topographical conditions are probably also important, I would assume, when building a road. The last is what other transport options exist in the area — what the State Council itself has said is part of the norm when you are going to sit and plan a road. I want to spend time reflecting a little bit on what the council said. What he said was that we should build the way out of the need there. I have a big challenge when we talk about road priorities. I may have respect for the fact that once the principles have been established, the Council of State will not break into the portfolio, but there is another way to do something about it, so that the priorities are not necessarily based only on socio-economic analyses and the ÅDT – possibly the possibility of building a four-field motorway. These are the frameworks, the strategies you give in advance, so that, for the purposes of distribution – as I have mentioned many times – this is also part of the criteria for New Roads to start calculating their projects and what they want to prioritise. It is the input that needs to be done in order for the different road standards to be used in the future. I'm quite sure they're going to be, and I think, in fact, that New Veier can build roads in the districts, even though there are two fields and a yellow middle stripe that's up to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6665	I really didn't intend to take the floor, but after hearing the representative Nävra, I can't stop. He claims that some are betting more on future generations than others, trying to discredit us for not being concerned with the climate and the environment. In fact, I believe that we have taken a lot of action for the environment. We have taken action against the car park, etc., which is important. Then I want to say back – a little bit like that – that we are now in the middle of a pandemic that shows challenges, that we actually need to have a road network, that we need an infrastructure that can also deal with those kinds of challenges. The difference between the representative Nävra and SV and the Progress Party is that we are dedicated to building forward-looking. I think it's stupid that we should throw out billions of dollars, as we've done at home, in Telemark, where we built a road in 1996, a two- and three-field road, which would be forward-looking for the next 50 years. We're now building a new four-field highway because you didn't choose to do it properly that time. And: The representative Nävra is so old that I assume he remembers what it was like in the drama, where they went from a three-field to a two-field road. Where there were two fields, you drove into a tunnel, into a one-field road, and there were long cows every weekend. That's a bad way to drive. That means you're standing there throwing shit, at least from some of the cars that don't go on electricity. I think it's about thinking about emissions, but it's actually also about being forward-looking and seeing that we have needs and challenges. It is not least about road safety. The examples are many that show that you have to be forward-looking and try to make the smart solutions, and then there's a narrow four-field you have to look at as an opportunity. Instead of building precipitously with two and three fields, proper and traffic-proof roads can be built. I believe that the solutions you have now seen have been very positive in this way. Yes, we're going to evaluate different situations, we're going to evaluate different things, but I think it's important to focus on building more narrow four-field or more four-field highways to meet the needs that are now and the needs that come in the future. Then the representative Nävra and others can think that there will be fewer cars in the future – I think there will be as many, and perhaps more. Of course, new technology makes the need not as big, but when we look at the cars today, many of the electric cars are much larger than the traditional cars. I think it's very good what the majority is now in favour of, and hope you keep on being forward-looking. At least it will be in road policy for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6680	The President would like to remind the representative that one should not be fluent from the pulpit of the Storting, which was the expression he himself used to characterise what he intended to say, and also be conscious of the choice of words for the rest of the speech, so that it is in line with good parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6685	I felt the need to take the floor to explain a little about the role of New Vei in road development in Norway. It is true that unlike the State Road Administration, Nye Veier has the opportunity to build what they plan for. There's some of the deficiency – and we saw it a little bit before when we had the Hålogaland case, where you might have to re-regulate and re-design the plans in the process. At the same time, the projects that enter New Roads are perceived as being more secure, because they do not build anything other than what they plan for. But that also means that new projects that enter New Roads cannot replace the projects that are already there. But what is the guarantee for those who get their projects into New Roads is that they are actually being built – at a time when the project is ready. It's a framework condition that New Veger has, which the state road system doesn't have in a way. We're constantly drifting away here in the Storting and changing things, and we can plan for years for a project that might not be built, because we think it might not be so necessary, some years after we've been planning it for ten years. It's actually something we have to learn from this, that we have a framework around road development in Norway that's right. And I think that maybe building something that's sufficient and good, but also forward-looking, can mean something different in the country. So I think the Council of State has a very good approach to this matter. But I would like to remind you that the advantage of E6 entering New Roads is that it is going to be built, but it is being built at a time when it cannot distort what is already there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6695	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6700	There's a note that tells a lot about the difference between the Progress Party and SV, from a district that I think the president knows very well. Between Hokksund and Åmot, then State Secretary Hoksrud ordered an investigation of a four-field motorway and set the station in motion to investigate this, which became a municipal sub-plan – the four-field motorway between Hokksund and Åmot, while the train at Randsfjordbanen does not stop at the four stations that are there. That is the difference between the transport policy of the Progress Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6705	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6722	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6729	It is beginning to be a while since the Committee gave its opinion on this matter. Covid-19 will take responsibility for this. The hearing was held on 28 January 2020 and the case was sent on 10 March. The proposal of representatives Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and Per-Willy Amundsen involves a marshalling ground to start work on the construction of the North Norway Railway. The Committee is divided into views. The majority believe that such a large investment must be seen in a larger context. I dare remember that these days we are struggling with huge cost increases in railway construction, which requires a thorough review of the causes and effects. In the light of the post-war situation, we must admit that early-stage cost estimates have been greatly underestimated, and that in Stortinget we have taken decisions on a very failing basis in terms of project design and costs. I think most people see that we can't go on like this. Therefore, an investment in the size of a North Norway railway must, like all other major infrastructure projects, be assessed and processed in the context of a national transport plan. North Norway is rich in natural resources and accounts for a large part of the value creation here in the country. But the region is also marked by large distances and is partly populated. In this part of the country there is definitely a need for both road and track in addition to boat and aircraft. This is why the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the government started work on a comprehensive concept selection investigation for the development of transport solutions in North Norway. Here, the various modes of transport and the transport needs to be addressed must be seen in the context. Here, the need for and the extent of the North Norway Railway must also be assessed. Construction of the North Norway Railway will also have to be seen in connection with Ofotbanen and Nordlandsbanen. Therefore, it has to be assumed that the work on a comprehensive North Norway transport plan will clarify alternative line options and concept choices for the North Norway Railway as well. Work on the concept selection study for the whole transport system in North Norway aims to become part of the basis for rolling out future NTPs. There is a need for double tracks on Ofot Railways to take care of the ore transport. The work on impact assessment for double tracks on Ofotbanen is under way, regardless of the plans for the North Norway track. That project has broad support. In Sweden, there is work to upgrade the Inlandsbanan. This represents an alternative transport of trains through Sweden, which could provide shorter transport time for the goods from north to south in Norway and abroad. This is an example of the importance of close cooperation with the Swedes. It's expensive to build a railway in Norway. It is therefore important to make some strategic choices on the needs to be met by the Nord-Norway route and what needs to be realised in the short and medium term. In the autumn of 2019, the Directorate-General for Railways delivered an investigation into the North Norway Railway, which can provide a good basis for further work, but a thorough analysis of alternative routes, new technology with zero emissions of CO2 and environmentally friendly construction solutions must be carried out. It will pay particular attention to the needs of industry for land-based transport. In particular, the maritime food industry and other export-oriented industries depend on the rapid and efficient transport of their goods. Traffic safety must also be ensured, with the need for an enhanced county road network. The setting indicates that there is disagreement as to whether there should be a separate concept selection investigation for the North Norway track. However, it is a process that does not take into account the overall approach necessary for this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6744	I have been at Stortinget for so long that I remember the discussions before we got the National Transport Plan to become an equally important instrument for priorities in the transport sector as it has become. Then we also had transport debates that were broken and divided. Many of the debates we have had today are interesting debates, but many of them are debates that primarily belong to the National Transport Plan, where every four years we make the overall priorities in the transport sector. If there's one thing that is similar to the situation 20 years ago, it's that the journalist who's in the press today is the same one who followed the transport debates 20 years ago. [[Laughter]] So Tormod E. Eitrheim should also get a little honeymoon from Stortinget's side. But back to the hall: this is an interesting suggestion. Looking at the North Norway Railway and more rail development in the North is right and important. However, I believe that the proposers are doing the North Norway Railway a service of bears in that this proposal is to be dealt with in completely different ways than how we treat other transport projects. Whether there is ferry-free E39 in the West, as we have discussed earlier, whether it is rail in the North, whether it is rail in the South, whether it is roads in the North – the overall priorities are taken into account in the National Transport Plan. Then we have a planning system that allows proposals to be examined, and then they are presented for political assessment, and then finally political decisions are taken. This is how I and the Workers' Party also have to do with this proposal, to get a good and thorough investigation. This is why, during the debate on the throne last year, the Workers' Party promoted the implementation of a concept selection study for different alternatives to the North Norway Railway, and that it should take place in such a way that the project could be taken up in time for the consideration of the national transport plan. Time has passed since then, but it is still possible to investigate this and get a proper decision-making basis before the Stortinget takes a decision. That is why the Labour Party also has a proposal today, which I am referring to here. There's no own money for the North Norway Railway. There are no separate transport plans for the North Norway Railway. It must be taken into account in the rest of the plan and given the same priority as other projects. If I'm going to come up with a advice, it's that Stortinget – yes, it's probably happened in the past that Stortinget has adopted individual projects without them being included in the plans, but those transportation projects have not done very well. I want to underline once again: this is very interesting, and the railway is future also in the north. We see what's happening in Narvik. It's a success story what happens with the transport of goods from Narvik, with goods both southwards and northwards. In Narvik, they get it. See what's happening in Mo in Rana, where there's now new initiatives to get fish and seafood southwards and, among other things, goods for the food industry to the north. There is no doubt that there are great opportunities to also expand more rail transport in the north. I just want to say this: once the Stortinget has previously rejected the North Norway Railway proposal, it has been primarily justified that there has been a poor passenger base. Now it would have been interesting to explore this in more detail and see what it would have to say for the freight transport. What is the potential for the transport of fish and seafood? This is very interesting to look at, but we have to take the time to figure it out and look at it. In addition, I would like to say that we have had consultation on the proposal in the Transport Committee, and that is just what it is. There were different opinions among those hearing bodies, but there was one thing I think I'd say there was unison agreement about, and it was that it was important to build out Ofotbanen and Nordlandsbanen. Then we have to think: what is the correct order of the railway investments we're going to make in the north? Is that the Nordlandsbanen? Is that Ofotbanen? Is there a railway between Narvik and Tromsø? How is it appropriate to carry out those priorities? We do that in the National Transport Plan, and then we also get a serious and thorough discussion of the issue of the North Norway Railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6763	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6768	On November 27, 1909, the Bergensbanen opened. It was based on a decision made in 1894. When it was finished, a path had been completed between east and west, linking the country together. The price tag was 52.5 million. kr. There was a lot of money that time, there was a lot of money that time. It was actually an entire state budget you chose to use to build the country. I'm going to venture a claim, and it goes something like this: we're going to be very happy – at least the mountains should be very happy – so that the Ministry of Finance's guidelines for calculating profitability were not dreamt of at that time, because the track had never been built. Yes, it's important to get numbers on the table, and it's right to know what you're adopting, but with the profitability assessments and calculations you're making, and which are leading in many projects, there's hardly anything that's profitable in this country in terms of building infrastructure. I say that because I come from a part of the country that hardly has a single transport project that, according to the Ministry of Finance, is profitable. Even the year of entry into Tromsø, the capital of North Norway, is not a profitable greeting to the Ministry of Finance. This hall builds the country. At least we have to build the country. We don't have to play accounting people. If you're going to build the country, you actually have to have some visions about how this country is going to be built. Visions are good, and I see that, on behalf of the Nordic part of the country, these visions are always gone – politicians who are going to show how great, fine and important North Norway is. You like to turn your map on your head to show that North Norway is going to mean a lot in the future – meaning more and more and become more important and important as an engine in the Norwegian economy. Yes, that's true and true, but it requires building the infrastructure needed by the country and the part of the country to realise that potential. Our Lord was in favor when he created North Norway. Have given us values and a nutrient base that few other places in the world can point to – everything from what's in the earth, to what's out in the sea, to what's under the sea. He was very fussy. But if we are to be able to realise that potential, we need to develop the continent. Then we have to have some visions, and we actually have to be willing to make investments and once again to build the country, also in the north – and more than just the road. That is what this proposal is about today, from my point of view. It is about building a part of the country that has enormous potential in terms of value creation, fisheries and mineral industry. Take freight transport: it is quite obvious. Every winter there are many northerners who live with the horror when you drive along the Norwegian roads, because you know about the fatal accidents – the accidents that have killed people. It is foreign car combinations and trailers that do not comply with the rules we have in Norway and that expose the Nordic population to risk. Much of this could have been moved over to the train. Take also passenger transport: if you are going to North Norway now, you should have a good time, because there are not many planes going. But it's possible to think bigger, it's possible to have visions beyond what the Ministry of Finance is able to communicate to us. The Ministry of Finance has its job, we have our job, and that's in this hall these visions are created. It's in this room that we take the decisions that point forward and raise us further, and that will enable us to build our society on an even richer nutrient base in the future. We have that in the north, and then we have to build that infrastructure in the north. I bring up the proposal from the Progress Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6785	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6790	The last representative forgot to mention that the centre party was also behind the proposal he made. Now I have been at Stortinget since the 2017 election. I have seen many projects – important road projects, important rail projects, people who want to build the country and who have told us in the Transport Committee that they will build the country together. A lot of these projects have been shown with a map, and too often that map has stopped right north of Trondheim. It's worried me. I have also been concerned that when the transport committee has been travelling and we have come north of the North Norway Gate, no one is talking about the four-field motorway. Nobody's talking about 110, and nobody's talking about 120. It is not mentioned. It is not mentioned that four-field motorway and railway should be built in the same breath. I think that has been a bit of a cross-sectional view. That's why it's nice to get a proposal with more will and vision on the table. The North Norwegian Railway must have progressed. The debate on the North Norway Railway has been going on for many decades. Following the presentation of the Directorate-General for Railways' investigation last year, it was found that a clear majority in the country is in favour of moving ahead with the project. The investigation was limited to looking at the 1992 cross-references, and this in combination with a number of other factors made the investigation ineffective. The centre party is positive for the construction of the Nord-Norway railway, but believes that such a construction cannot be started without a separate KVU looking at, among other things, the construction. trasé selection, technology selection and greenhouse gas cut potential. It is also important to see this in the context of the development of the different solutions to the existing railways in Northern Norway — the North and Ofotbanen. Such an investigation will require the involvement of a wide range of trade unions and the provision of sufficient resources to go deep into the matter. Therefore, the proposed comprehensive investigation by the government of trade in North Norway would be ineffective in providing a decision-making basis for the adoption of the North Norway route. It should therefore be supplemented, and therefore we also ask the government to work to realize the North Norway Railway. Traffic safety and more goods away from dangerous roads are important arguments for this path. We would also like to stress that the North Norway Railway obviously has to undergo an ordinary process with a KVU. So I do not share the concern of the Labour Party in this matter and believe that the party can also vote in favour of the proposal on which the Central Party is party. Vision and will are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6803	The representative of the Labour Party, Myrli, misunderstands the proposal – presumably intentionally. This is not a proposal to adopt a line. It's a principle decision that we invite Storting to join in: that the Storting decides that we should do this, and then we come up with the details of how it should be done. That is the proposal – nothing else. I want to start with something that was in Tromsøposten in 1877: What should have been done in the past has now finally happened in Tromsø, namely the establishment of a railway committee. So it was the first railway committee – 143 years ago. In 1921 the Stortinget decided for the first time that the railway should be realised, all the way to Tromsø. It's been 99 years. While the railway is traveled in the east and west and in the middle and south, the district is still in the far north. In other parts of the country, heavy infrastructure is being developed as a matter of course. The destiny of northerners is to have to fight for the other part of the country has been given. North Norway has a long way to go to be integrated into national strategies. The development of power, the development of telecommunications networks, the development of roads, airports – almost all major infrastructure projects have been fought in the north. Syringe, it's often called, but we know that there's politics and power struggle it's at the seventh and last, which in this case, where space around the table is not self-evident. In these May days exactly 88 years ago, when Tromsø acted as the capital of the Free Norway, when South Norway was defeated, when the government and the king had fled northward, when the battles at Narvik rasa, King Haakon put the words on it in a broadcast speech from Tromsø to the people of Norway. He said, "But North Norway we can still call ours. This part of the country, which in previous years may not have been observed for profit, but which in these days shows that it is capable and dignified to represent a free and independent Norway.’ He put words on what many northerners at this time also knew: that they had not been ‘appreciated for profit’. Unfortunately, these historical parallels are still in force today, because there is no reason to say no to the North Norway track. Even the highly criticised report of the Directorate for Railways is more socio-economically profitable than intercity, and it is before the major exceedances. The North Norway Railway is far more socio-economically profitable than the Free E39, with which the largest series of self-employed people are still working unrelentingly. But there's little people up there that Erna uses to say. No, there are more people along these lines than five already planned railways in other parts of the country. Opponents argue at best with even more fixes, the design of which is to create hope by selecting and jeopardizing them afterwards. The counterargument is too far-off as geipete and arrogant. But a new alliance is under construction. The Progress Party, the Centre Party, the MDG, the Red Party and the SV are now gathering to realize the railway. For us, the counter-arguments are simply too small, the national arguments too large. This applies, for example: green industrialisation. The large northern region development shows that North Norway is the country that has the largest nutrient potential of all parts of the country but has weak infrastructure. They come to the conclusion that it is crucial if one is to bring about economic development. If it is to be triggered, the railway must be realised. The North East Passage is soon a reality. 40 pst. of global transport will pass through that passage. Norway has to position itself. North Norway is the only way Norway can become a natural port. It also applies to the growth of seafood and of the Ofot railway which are detonated by capacity. It will solve many of Norway's national challenges. But this is not enough. So it's 143 years ago. The Labour Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left are still on the other side, despite their own local party in the north saying yes. These are the same parties that will build both intercity and ferry-free E39. They're on the wrong side, even though the polls show that a majority of the population, a majority in all regions and all parties now say: Realize the North Norway track! Still being far inside. But they have until the next Tuesday to change their mind and take North Norway seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6842	It is a debate that is old – yes – but we in the Left think it is important to get a KVU. It was ordered and negotiated during the toll settlement. I could tell a lot about the night we were doing it, but one of the results was at least that you should have a KVU. I must say that I very much agreed with the representative Sverre Myrlis' description and most of his articles today. It was a description of how we should have a decision base when we decide on the long-term construction of such an important infrastructure as the railway is – and of course also the road – and especially the North Norway railway. I think the North Norway Railway is being realized, because it turns out that there are so many natural resource values in North Norway that are being demanded more and more. Of course, the seafood in particular is to be transported. It should not be eaten in North Norway – in part so, but not in any other way – it should be transported down to Europe and perhaps also to other parts of the world. That is why freight traffic will trigger the need for the Nordlandsbahn. It's kind of the same thing as the Ofot track. The representative Sverre Myrli was at our hearing. It was diverse, but everyone said that now the Ofot Railway needs to be upgraded and modernised so that it can actually take more goods and we can get a good passenger traffic year on that side, down Sweden, so that we can exploit it even better. I think it will also be the case with the North Norway Railway – that of course we are hanging on to passengers and getting good passenger connections, at least all the way up to Tromsø. It may not be in Tromsø it is the largest quantities of goods – it is probably in Skjervøy and a little elsewhere – but it is what becomes important for how to build this path, and for how far you should go down and connect it to the Nordlandsbanen, which is an important year today and certainly has a much greater potential than it has shown for the time being. I'm excited if the Council of State today can say something about how long the KVU will take, before we can get some results we can start planning on the basis of and prioritize a transport solution in North Norway. It would have been very good if we had got something already until next year, when we were going to treat the NTP. I have heard that it may be difficult, but the Ministry of Transport should be a little more responsible for it. That's what's going to be exciting now, both how we compare and not least see socio-economically at this. The left is optimistic on behalf of the North Norway Railway and that we can build it when we see those analyses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6858	This is a project of national strategic importance for the rapid and environmentally friendly transport of goods in Norway. Unfortunately, Norwegian politicians have long underestimated the social benefits of better transportability for the values created in North Norway. Now we don't need any more investigations as to whether there is a need for rail northwards. We have to start work on the realisation of the North Norway Railway, we mean. The increased transport of both seafood and other goods has created a massive increase in the number of vehicle trains. Last winter, the media were filled with reports of accidents — what was fatal because of poorly-skinned foreign car combinations on slippery Norwegian winter roads. Construction of the rail northwards will remove thousands of vehicle trains from the roads, reduce emissions and improve road safety. With the track, we'll get a lot of goods away from the roads and on the track. At the same time, we can reduce air traffic, and the emergence is improved when travelling time from e.g. Fauske to Tromsø will be well under three hours. We believe that the track should be built right up to the Kirkenes. We also have strong support for this in the population. Seven out of ten Nordics want the railway all the way to Finnmark. It is incorporated as a natural part of the railway investigation carried out by the Finnish authorities on the route Rovaniemi-Churches. Red believes that it would be right to invest parts of Norway’s oil wealth in important infrastructure projects, as the North Norway route is proven to be. If it is reluctant to do so, funds can also be released by prioritizing difficult and increasing motorway projects in the East or parts of the Free E39 in the West, which alone will cost 340 billion. kr. The price for railway from Fauske to Tromsø and with side arm to Hinnøya is estimated at around 120 billion. kr, i.e. less than half of the ferry-free E39. Red believes that the North Norway Railway must be a major project in the national transport plan for 2022-2033. A new number of large numbers must have the aim of starting construction, but now we have to start planning, with good involvement of, among other things. The pooling and the reindeer industry, and not least with regard to environmental advice. Such a railway operation will have major local and regional repercussions and will mean a new future for North Norway and for the North Callot. Both the North Norway Railway and the Rovaniemi-Churches Railway will break with the historic role that the county has played as a raw material supplier to the rest of the country and the world. We need to build the country, also in the north. That is why Red is in favour of the proposal and hopes the rest of the Storting will take care of it and support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6873	In 2017, the Directorate of Railways was commissioned by the Ministry of Finance to prepare an up-to-date cost estimate and a socio-economic analysis for a new route Fauske-Tromsø, what we call Nord-Noregbanen. The Executive Board was not to draw up a draft evaluation, but was to follow the consistency methodology as far as appropriate. The cost estimate would be at a distribution level within the plus-minus 40 pst. insecurity. The distribution was sent on 1 July 2019, and the final distribution was received by the Ministry on 3 December 2019. The analysis shows that such a path will be socio-economically very elusive. The calculations show investment costs of between 113 and 140 billion. kr and a net loss to society. The positive effects of a North Norway railway are the reduced transport and logistics costs of goods. Transferred passenger traffic from private car to railway is positive. Reduced CO 2 emissions and reduced traffic accidents are positive. However, the distribution shows that investment costs are much higher than the sum of the positive effects. The distribution that has been made is not a fully-fledged concept selection according to the state project model. It is not possible to proceed on the current basis with the planning of any Nord-Noregbane. Such a decision requires full consistency. The government has decided to implement an impact assessment for the whole transport system in North Norway, which sees all modes of transport in context and also assesses an extension of the railway from Fauske to Tromsø, i.e. Nord-Noregbanen. The government has seen funds in the State budget for 2020 for this concept of currency. In a short time, the Ministry of Transport will ask transport operators to draw up mandates for distribution. On that basis, the Ministry will define this mandate. The government believes such an impact assessment work is absolutely necessary to ensure that we can develop an efficient transport system in North Norway that best interests people and businesses in the region. In order to move forward in the process, a factual basis is necessary to meet the requirements of the country’s project model. A KVU for transport solutions in North Norway should help to provide this basis. That's our wish. Then I have to say that I feel that it is not realistic to decide on the realization of a North Norway based on the knowledge underlying it today. That's why I'm glad that there's a number in this room that supports a KVU, which is clear that it's a wish they have to see what's the best transport solutions for North Norway under one. So in that KVU, the railway will be a very important part: North Norway, naturally, but for example, also the Ofot Railway, which is taken up here. To see that whole thing, I think I'll be the best solution for North Norway. I'm happy for the commitment that's attached to the matter today. But I also think it's well worth listening to Sverre Myrli's words, that the kind of project that we're actually implementing has to go through a quality basis, which is entirely decisive when we're going to make such decisions as the Storting is actually being invited to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6893	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6898	The government has previously signaled, or rather I should say offensively went out and proclaimed, that comprehensive transport solutions – I think they use that term – should be investigated in North Norway. The representative Jon Gunnes explained a little bit about the background here, and that was very interesting. My question is, how far has the work come? I could probably almost interpret what the Council of State said recently, as if that work was not yet started. So my question is, how far has the work come? It was presented last summer, and now we're writing May. And how is that work synchronised with the work of revising the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6905	When I entered the department, it was important for me to get ahead of this work. In reality, we now have a mandate, as I also said, which we have a dialogue with our budgets. What we want is actually an impact assessment for the whole transport system in North Norway, but then it's important that a very important part of it becomes a railway. So that assessment, linked to the section Fauske-Tromsø, becomes part of the consequence we want. But not only that – even the Ofot Railway will be a natural part of it – but also seeing the wholeness of the transport systems in North Norway is what we want to get into place with this KVU. So here's a mandate. So it'll take some time, and that means that it'll be challenging. Perhaps we can get an interim report on the national transport plan, but we will have to deliver it early in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6912	Then I realize that the predecessors of the Minister of Transport had not done so much with this matter from last summer until he took over. I guess some of the proposers might also notice that the commitment might not have been so great anyway. But I really would recommend and ask the Minister of Transport, when he hears the commitment that is in the Storting, to prioritize this work and take it seriously. Because it's a big commitment, and the railway is part of the future transport solutions also in North Norway. I would ask the Minister for Transport to take this work very seriously, and that different alternatives be investigated. I would like to have confirmation from him that it is being done, that different alternatives are being considered, including for the railways – in general, against other modes of transport, but the investigation of the railways in North Norway must also be part of that investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6917	I can confirm that. It will be. And I'd like to also take the fast route in my time. There's enough of the special situation we've had this spring, that we really haven't got this in place yet. But we have worked on it, and we want to have that mandate, the whole-hearted mandate, which looks at the railways, but also at all transport systems in North Norway. I would also say that my predecessor wrote an answer to the Storting where he said: « My advice would therefore be to await this distribution which is now being started.» That I believe was a wise advice from Jon Georg Dale to Stortinget. [[...]] It's a good idea now to wait for the good work we're going to get, and see this in a sanity, I think it's absolutely necessary, before we take the kind of profound decisions that the Storting is actually being invited to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6924	We can probably discuss the story of when the investigation work was started. The most important thing now is when it ends, and when some results can be presented. So it's basically my last question to the Minister of Transport: When work starts, what's the progress of the project? When can we imagine that something comes out of the investigative work that the Minister for Transport is now presenting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6929	This work will be under way by the summer of 2020. This is a work that will actually take several years, I think we have to understand. So one will consider whether one will be able to make some input that we can take with us towards the national transport plan that we're going to deliver early in 2021. But I think I have to be very clear that the soundness of this work will not be ready for the national transport plan that we are going to deal with here in winter 2020/2021. There are nine to ten months ahead, and this is a work that – as in all major projects – takes longer than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6934	During the hearing on the North Norway track, a question was raised that I do not know the answer to. It was related to last year the world's longest and deepest underwater tunnel being opened, the Ryfylke Tunnel, which is 14.4 km long and up to 292 metres below sea level. The price per meter was 400,000 kroner, and here are two tunnels with two lanes in each direction and camera for every forty meters, as well as a lot of signage and other electronics. The North Norway Railway was priced at about 300,000 SEK per metre, and the North Norway Railway Action Group asked the question: how is it possible that a single-track railway could be nearly as expensive per metre as two underwater tunnels? Maybe the Council of State can try to explain it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6939	The estimate we've got on the North Norway track is between 113 billion. and 140 B.C.E. kr. So I think I have to be honest and say that the experience I have had with railway projects only for a while is that unfortunately they have become more expensive than the cost we have been dealing with here in Stortinget, and that also applies to rail in the Austlands area, for example. Follovanen, I'm sorry. When I was on the Transport Committee, we discussed a range of sizes between 12 billion. and 16 B.C.E. kr. No, it's Follobanen, 36. kr. We've had cost increases on the Eastfold Railway. I have no better basis than the Railway Directorate has pointed out, and they have pointed out that the estimate is between 113 and 140 billion. kr. Railways are unlikely to be good, but we must be honest and say that they are expensive too. That's the truth Stortinget has been seen in several projects – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6947	What's particularly good about the railway is that we can get more goods across from road to track. Earlier this year, a report from the State Disaster Commission concluded that the control of freight transport on Norwegian roads is not good enough. We expect an increase in the volume of goods in the north, and we can combine more goods on the road with safer heavy transport and avoid increasing numbers of foreign trailers, unprofessionalism and social dumping. I want to quote Ramona Lind, who lost his son in an accident. She says, «Norway has the worst winter roads. At the same time, we have some of Europe’s best management of EEA rules.’ Does the Council of State see that the North Norway Railway can provide much safer transport both on the road and on the road in the future, and thus will he support the development?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6959	Some of what I said was the positive effect of North Norway, is that we can transfer goods to the railway. We may also have positive effects related to road safety. It's part of the positive package. Still, the calculator shows that we have a long way to go to get a positive paycheck attached to this project. Then I, since the representative Mossleth mentions this about Ramona Lind, would say that she has had many good suggestions on what we can do about road safety, not least about foreign vehicle trains, clear leads there, register – there are many possibilities, and I think we should take advantage of them. I can also say that I had a dialogue with my Swedish colleague on this very topic, traffic safety attached to heavy transport. A joint effort from Norway and Sweden in that area I think is important, not least linked to winter security, and so Ramona Lind has come with many good recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6966	I wonder that the Council of State attaches so much importance to the report delivered by the Directorate of Railways, which has been slaughtered largely from what can creep and go off the professional environment on the northern hemisphere, I had almost said, by both Swedish, German and Norwegian professionals, etc. He has even been slaughtered by those who were supposed to ensure the quality of the report, which is found in the following letter, where, among other things. is pointed out: Why in all parts of the world has not made an assessment of trasé choices, which would significantly reduce costs, at least by 20 pst.? In addition, there are anecdotes that have calculated exactly the same amount of fish on the track in 20 years, although the government has added up to a fivefold increase in fish production. They're assuming that significantly fewer northerners will take trains than any other place in the country. It's incomprehensible. They have not included any other goods. In addition, they are based on a price that follows the Folloban, so a scandalous project has been put in place as a basis for price. My question is: why does the Council of State focus on a report that then until those degrees have been undermined?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6973	When the representative Knag Fylkesnes describes the report in that way, the paradox is that it is the best report I have to assess this project. That's why we have to get a job that's even better. That's exactly why we want a KVU. It is to get a more holistic and better assessment – not only of the railways, but of the whole-scale transport projects. So I actually found the post of the representative Knag Fylkesnes a very good example that we have to get a holistic KVU for North Norway – with a special focus on the railway. When we have him, I think I should take the debate that the representative of Knag Fylkesnes invites the Stortinget to take today. I think it's wise that we have a good factual basis before we make such a big decision as SV and the Progress Party invites us to today. I also notice that the Progress Party's former government council thinks we should wait for that decision before we make a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6978	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e6985	North Norway is a part of the country full of opportunities. We're looking at the sea and the fish that we're taking up, and there's more fish from farming as well. There are more tourists than ever. Opportunities are endless in this part of the country — on behalf of Norway, opportunities are endless. It makes me very proud to get out of there and have lived there all my life, and it's one thing that's also been talking about my whole life, it's the North Norway track. The North-Norway has a long story, much longer than I would wish – I wish it was already going on. But if we're going to get something done, we have to do things right. It's important to bring more than ourselves – we're not as many people living in North Norway, and it's important to bring more. More people have to realize why this is important, we're going to get things done. This is not a matter – even if it is produced like this – for or against the North Norway Railway. I don't accept that premise. That's not where we're going to decide, we're going to have to do that in line with what you're doing with all of the other big projects. The same rules also apply to those of us who are from the north, although I would wish it were not like that many times. I think the most important thing to realize this is that we first get the facts on the table. This will be achieved if you have a draft selection study ready for the national transport plan, which the Centre Party also argues in its comments on the matter. Then I think it should be possible to support the Workers' Party's proposals here, which will be an important step forward for the North-Norway – a serious step forward, in a proper way. I am also proud to belong to a party that has always had visions on behalf of North Norway, which has contributed to success and to success in the region. I am also happy that I am in a party that has a party leader who is clear that you want to get to the railway in the north. But that's not the same thing as the solution that it's added up to now is the only or right way to do it. I probably want as much as the representative Knag Fylkesnes with more to realize the North Norway track, but I think the most important and right way to do it is to follow the normal rules of the game. I am sure that our arguments when we come to the treatment of the national transport plan will be so good that we will get to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7000	North Norway is facing great opportunities and is already experiencing great growth. Although we are in an exceptional state in these times, we aim for new investments when the normal everyday life is back and the growth of the continent can continue. Because we have a part of the country that has so much to live on, so much to play on and so much resources, and so the possibilities are many. Planning, growth and development are therefore very central, and I am very pleased that the government is paying for mineral nutrition and growth in aquaculture and travel – to mention something. In this context, rail investment is important, and investment in road development, aerodromes and ports is important. I am therefore very pleased with the change of pace we have received after the government change in 2013, where the budget for transport has been increased by over 80 p.m., where the highway investments in North Norway have tripled, and where the county roads have gone from zero to over half a billion extra dollars annually at the top of the county municipalities. The need for the county roads is enormous, and the value creation takes place on Senja, on Arn Island and along the coast, but the road effort should not stand in the way of railway needs. Different modes of transport meet different needs. The debate on rail in North Norway has been going on for a long time, and then it might be worth noting that it is today's government parties that, together with the Progress Party, took the historic, first formal step in the planning process, when we get a KVU. There has been an important breakthrough for me and the Right in the North, and North Norway is going to participate in the country's rail budgets. Now we have a plan that comes and that will contribute to an important debate. I myself want to present the Tromsbanen as a project that is realistic in terms of economic scale. When you look at the freight transport that is already going to North Norway through Sweden to Narvik, it is a sensible trail. Because the growth continues, and then this is going to be a good thing. North Norway needs good transport alternatives in the time to come. Then today's government and commitment to transportation must continue in the years to come. SV is talking hot about railway bets and lightning trains between the big cities south, but they're not as willing to talk about how they see the containment. It should, of course, be a cross of thought for more people to reach the representative Lightbakken, for example. in a look-up in VG on 24 May last year would cut 450 billion. kr in motorway construction, where half was to be taken north of Steinkjer, it is to finance a lightning strike that would mainly take place outside my part of the country. It wouldn't be a good solution for us in North Norway. We have to be able to bet on the width of transport solutions and see these in a context. It will provide a better everyday life for us who live, live and create values along the coast of the north. I am therefore looking forward to the draft committee investigation that is now going to begin, and that we will have a real, comprehensive commitment to rail and transport in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7015	A wise man has said, "Look to the north." My heartfelt wish is that more people will look at the amazing opportunities we have in the north. Like my colleague, Mr. Torgair Knag Fylkesnes, I believe that last year's investigation by the Directorate-General for Railways had major weaknesses. But at the same time, it made several things clear. Firstly, it made it clear that the extension of the railway from Fauske to Tromsø would result in a large cut in greenhouse gas emissions. The investigation was based on old trasé choices with long and unnecessary underwater tunnels, assuming that the track would be built with old construction machines, and not counting electrification of the Nordlandsbahn, which we now know can be done relatively easily. Nevertheless, the North Norway Line became an effective climate action. Secondly, the investigation showed that the North Norway Railway will move large quantities of goods from road to rail. Despite unrealistic calculations of how much fish are to be transported out of the county, the volume of goods was so large that it would significantly reduce heavy traffic on northern Norwegian roads. In reality, rail in the north will thus also be a gigantic road safety measure. Although rail in the north will reduce air traffic, passenger traffic is not the most important thing with the North Norway Railway. Transport by train is becoming more and more cost-effective the longer the distance, and in the north the distances are really long. It is well over twice as far from Trondheim to Tromsø as it is from Trondheim to Oslo. It's in the north railway coming to its right. The goods leaving North Norway are heavy and space-consuming and unsuitable for air transport. The seafood is busy and therefore cannot be carried by boat. Unlike large freight ships, the railway goes every day and is therefore the most flexible mode of transport. The railway cuts greenhouse gas emissions but is also the most efficient mode of transport. Low air and rolling resistance does not provide any alternatives in the vicinity. This is an important factor when we're building the country to go on power. The North-Norway is not just an opportunity, it's a necessity, and it's my hope that the bulk of the population after 60 years on the fence comes down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7032	Railway in North Norway has been a dream for many years. The dream is to be able to connect the country and provide business and population with efficient and environmentally friendly transport. The matter now under consideration is a continuation of the railway northwards to Tromsø, it is often said. Maybe we should call it the "Tromsøbanen", as we call Bergensbanen the "Bergensbanen". Then we can wait to call the North Norway track until the Kirkenes are connected. Norway is historically high on transport, but from the north, very few road projects are going to North Norway and Finnmark. There are real concerns that road and port are being down-prioritized. Government investment in coastal port facilities is well below the agreed national transport plan. Lack of investment stops business. In South Africa, modern boats do not come to the dock to deliver fish to farms due to the lack of dredging. It lacks money and a willingness to invest. Rail is a good alternative to freight transport. Transport of growing mining activities, long-term investment in oil and gas and the transport of marine food should be explored in particular from an environmental perspective. A railway northward will be a huge intervention in nature. Special reindeer will be threatened. But it will make a contribution to the green shift, and one must see this investment in a hundred-year perspective. Will our future state budget take account of both roads, quays and railways? Will it be a new project that we all want, but no one will give priority? Will a railway to Tromsø fulfill the dream? Yes – I am conditionally optimistic, and I would recommend rail northwards. But I think the project needs to be seen in a whole. On this basis, a concept selection inquiry for transport solutions in North Norway will provide a correct answer, and the Workers' Party will vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7049	It's rare I'm sitting here in the staging room and I hear so much good about North Norway and the possibilities in the north. Excuse me, Councillor, but it's almost so you can become religious by less! I share those considerations. There are great opportunities for the future development of North Norway. And it's clear, as many people have said, that a decisive premise to get to that development is a better infrastructure. The question then is, how are we going to organise ourselves to achieve that goal, and how are we going to facilitate the outsourcing of the value creation that will contribute to Norway's future national economy? The Labour Party representative, Myrli, described it very well: that you have to have an overall approach and follow the procedures you do in such cases. And as for North Norway's need for transport measures, we have to see it in a context. The North Norway Railway will not solve all the transport challenges we have in North Norway. Most of the value creation actually happens along the coast, and that's not where a railway is planned. For natural reasons, a fishing establishment or a farming establishment is often located on the coast, and then we have to have a comprehensive infrastructure and roads linking a possible future railway. That's exactly why it's so important to get a complete KVU in place, which sees these contexts in a transport system that can serve the development of North Norway, and the government has already decided, and is doing it. I would also like to point out that all the parties here in the Chamber are involved in a proposal, in some form, which is helping to make progress towards the goal we want: a future railway in North Norway. Nor is there any doubt that the hearing also showed that step 1 in a North Norwegian runway must in any case be double tracks on Ofotbanen. It's incredibly necessary. Then it is that when you promote a proposal for a representative here in the Chamber – the far left and the far right – it is with the background in a report that has been slaughtered – that we have to make a principle decision. If we're going to get an impact on a North Norwegian runway, we're going to be dependent on funding and a majority behind it. In this context, the Progress Party wants to build with oil money and SV with increased tax revenues, and it does not belong together. We need to get a wider majority in the Stortinget, we need to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7064	It's set at 10 million. kr for the current year’s budget for the development of an overall draft selection inquiry. Some questions have been asked about how far this work has come, and we have been given a guarantee that it will be given priority. When you look at it, you're supposed to look at a comprehensive solution, and then you have to look at all forms of transport in North Norway. We're in favour of this proposal, which is intended to be realized, but there's no doubt that this realization means that you have to mean something first, and then you have to put the whole thing in afterwards. One of the reasons why it has been very clear is – as has also been mentioned several times – that for the assessments that have already been made, there are clearly great limitations. And when you don't even make it a condition that new lines are to be investigated, it goes without saying that this isn't good enough. When you've historically talked about the North Norway Railway, it's because you've been thinking that it should be involved and tie the whole country together. A hundred years ago, what was the objective of the rest of the country was also when you built the track to Bergen and to Trondheim. If you look at it historically, that's exactly what happened. It was possible to bind the country together. For us in the Center Party, this is a clear value choice. When we as a district party want to connect the country, the North Norway Railway is absolutely essential. If you look at the facts and what you can probably quantify, this is the case with significant quantities of goods going south, not least that it has an emergency role to play in connecting the country, which makes us less dependent on what neighbouring countries do, and how they rig their transport solutions. I've lived as far south as you can almost get, I've lived in Oslo, I live in Dovreberg, I've lived in Middle Norway, and I've lived in jam many places in North Norway as well. One thing is fireproof: the transport solutions are what can now be involved in developing North Norway in many ways. They have made some quantum leaps in the last few years in terms of nutrition and industrial development — and they know that. What you see from exports, what contributes to the Norwegian state today, is enormous. We're concerned that the railway is also going to put tracks in North Norway, and that you can develop this further. At the same time, I fully agree that we have to put this into a system – we have to do it, because that's when the money comes. But I think everyone who's suggested this, too, understands well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7078	I think the debate should bear the mark that we have a positive starting point for the project. What will determine if the project is realised is that it will naturally fit into the overall transport system in North Norway. We have expanded airports. We have what we need from roads. I think goods are one of the key words of the North Norwegian Railway, that it should carry goods. Then we need a system of terminals. We need to upgrade the county roads from the farming areas to these terminals. We need to know what roads are going to take off of transport, and what tasks the railway is going to have. I think we need to figure that out. I think the investigation that is available has some alternatives in it that we have to deal with. There is no better starting point than the railway station has set up. I think it's an error ending if you think this can be done so much cheaper. I can't, I can't. The question is, can we make it smarter? Then one of the problems in the report, which is problematic, is where to start. You can see that the level of conflict around building from Narvik to Fauske is very large based on natural resources and natural conditions. While building from Narvik and northwards, maybe what to do. But you don't know that. That's the kind of thing you have to spend the time figuring out – getting the project down to a level that gives it its natural place in the transport system in North Norway. I also think it would be a lot better diet-benefit-effect of such an investment if we took the time to take that job. Obviously, things don't come of themselves. All types of projects must be planned through some form of planning. It is necessary to plan at a higher level until the decision is made to make the investment. We have to get better there. The first step in this can't be to take what's lying there now, and start from there. We have to give this path a design and a natural place in the system. It will then also compete within the overall transport demand in North Norway. This is a debate for a positive approach, and it has also been my approach when I have been the case rapporteur for this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7087	A couple of cases ago, we discussed E39. Then Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes threw himself into the debate at the end, and then he said lightly rattlingly that it seemed as if the road was «the goal in itself» for those who thought that one would build a ferry-free E39. But when the County talks about the North Norway track, I hear he actually says that it's a principle. So he will adopt the principle first – and then he will investigate and come back to which solutions to choose. I am to build roads both in the south and in the north, and I am to build railways in the north and in the south, but it must be subject to the same planning systems, and it must be subject to the same political and economic priorities. Only then will we be able to get credibility behind the different options, and only then will we be able to realize them. So the proposal from the SV and the Progress Party was to start work on realizing, it was not a proposal to investigate. And when it was presented with bragging and bram, it was just like a suggestion that the Stortinget should now make the decision to build the North Norway track – it was not a matter of investigating anything at all. But now I hear the County and others say it's to be investigated, and that's good, and once I've heard the Central Party speakers, I think it's been very good posts. We really agree: the proposal has to be examined, and then we take the political priorities – as we do other transport projects. So I'd like to mention one reason why we're doing this properly: what's really the North-Norway? Is it the Fauske-Narvik railway? Is that Narvik-Tromsø? Is that Fauske-Narvik-Tromsø? Is path to Harstad included? In the hearing, it was noted by some that the most important thing is to build rail between Finland and Finnmark. So is it all of these projects I've now framed? And how is this to be expanded in view of the situation on Ofotbanen and Nordlandsbanen – Ofotbanen, which is desperately in need of double tracks and perhaps Europe’s most important freight route? Should we build further north before we get rusted up the Nordlandsbahn, where there are single tracks on the entire route? It is not electrified, and on large parts of the Nordlandsbahn there is not even a signalling system, so that railway staff are out at the station and give a signal to the flag trains. In what order are we going to take all the big challenges we have? It can't be so stupid that we sit down and investigate this a little bit, get price patches on the different options, calculate which projects are reasonable to take, and in what order -- and it really seems to be a fairly wide majority behind the Biggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7100	You could call it a rowing post. What is fascinating about the post is, first of all, that he admits what is also black out of the proposal, that the proposal from Per-Willy Amundsen and I are not supposed to decide what this course should look like. It's a principle decision. The investigation into how this is to be done will follow. Then the representative Myrli starts to demand trasé elections, which he has just admitted that we should not decide. There is a classic logical error in the reasoning. The representative Myrli probably has a seat on the Stortinget since 1997 and has been on the Transport Committee for almost all years when his party has been in opposition. During that period there have been at least four statements on the North Norway Railway. Everyone has had a higher socio-economic salary than more of the projects that have otherwise been adopted in connection with the national transport plan. The representative Myrli has never lifted a finger to initiate a whole new arrangement, unless there is a requirement for one to move forward. So this is a strategy that has been revealed for the longest time, for more explanation, as the answer to that now we have to do something. The installation by the representative Nils Aage Igstad was also a feature of it – as if he didn't know anything about the transport possibilities and the transport challenges in the north. This has been written over miles. After all, the national transport plan is largely a concept evaluation. So having a concept selection on top of a concept selection – there were few who understood it when that solution arose in a busy election fight, but it happened. It was primarily an attempt to kill a growing demand in the population, not only in the Nordic population, but also in the rest of the country, that this had to get started. This is not a proposal that says exactly how this route should be built, but that it should be built – just as we have done with other major infrastructure projects. It was e.g. no draft valuation resulting in a built Bergensbanen. There one decided to do it, and then one did it. There was no draft currency exchange leading to the Sørlandsbanen. There, one decided to do it, and then one decided how to do it. There was no concept-valuation that led to the Trønderbanen. One decided for it, and then one implemented it. A real deal, of course, but one decided for it first. But it doesn't make you northwards. One has made a decision – far back in time – that it will be realized all the way to Tromsø, but one just does not. There are many such major infrastructure projects we have as a nation, whether it's road, track, telecommunications, electricity, power, etc., where one just says that this is to be realized. The zero option does not exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7113	I think it's pretty obvious -- it's coming north. I think it's inevitable. I think we'll end up there anyway -- the question is when, what order, where to start. We don't know that, but there's a railroad coming north, it's illogical if it doesn't happen. Otherwise, we don't want to know about North Norway, otherwise we're blind to what's going on there. It's been 60–70 years since Ottar Brox asked the question and wrote the book 'What's going on in North Norway?' Yes, what's going on in North Norway? It doesn't happen very much if we don't take any action. We have to do that. But a railway doesn't just mean transport. Obviously, a railway transport of goods – a lot of fish descending, I've said that many times here now, and going northwards – but there's something more. A railway is also a business development. We must not forget that. You don't just have to passively look at the status right now, but see what the railway is doing with development. It's absolutely crucial. I have said this sometimes: Norway looks like a dinosaur, if you look at the map – a heavy body at the bottom, a head at the top, and then it actually lacks a spine downwards. Whether there's a head up there thinking, or there's resources up there, doesn't matter. But we have an opportunity to bind our hearts and our heads together. It may be that even the heart is located northward — many people may think so. The point is at least there's something forward-looking about the North-Norway. There's another point, which hasn't been mentioned so much, that's not just about goods, but about a green shift for the tourist industry. If you think about a densely populated Europe going on vacation – they'll be looking at the northern lights in winter, midnight in summer, or maybe they'll look at the northern Norwegian coastal landscape and coastal culture in the north. They've come by car or plane to a large extent. Now we have the opportunity to get a green corridor if we're also good at expanding the railway to Sweden. That's what's supposed to be the gateway to Scandinavia – it's not a plane or a car. Now we have that opportunity, an enormous potential for growth, which should not be underestimated. Nutritional development, tourism development northwards, with the corridor we have, the spine, Tromsø, say the Churches, but let me say Tromsø first, all the way down to Europe, through Røros via the Dovrebanen and down to Europe – think about it!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7126	Like my co-rapporteur, Mr. Knag Fylkesnes, I must ask for the ability to think in principle, the ability to raise the visions, the ability to raise a debate where time has come most to do so. But what I experience is process discussions. In particular, the Workers' Party and Myrli are talking about process, process, process. It's about the order of lines and how the expansion is going to take place, and the problematization of it, and he even invites internal struggles in North Norway about the different lines, about order; if you're going to do something in Northland first, you have to do something with Ofotbanen first, and in what order are we going to build the part that's in Troms. I don't think that's a very wise procedure. One chooses to focus on the process instead of taking a fundamental debate, making a principle decision, which is what we are offering today. And it comes from a party that doesn't even sit in government, that you talk about process instead of taking the principle debate. I hope and believe that although we are unlikely to have a majority today – voting will not be today anyway – we have helped to raise a debate that most people in the north think is high time being raised in this national assembly. So it's a completely different drive, a completely different will, a completely different and stronger wish in the north that the time of the North Norway Railway has come. We're going to build all parts of the country. Norway did so in the 19th century, Norway in the 20th century, and I really hope that Norway will continue to do so in the 21st century. If money is the problem, and the Minister of Transport would like to need money for all the good projects: during the day I have registered that Oslo has said no to the new E18, and that Vestland says no to the ferry-free E39, then you have a pretty good allocation to start with, because in North Norway we actually want the North Norway track.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7141	To discuss how to organize and implement a project of the order of 120 billion. kr, is not irrelevant; it is actually quite important. And just to remind you: it's not that many years since it was a dream for representatives like me to be able to stand on the pulpit of the Stortinge and discuss exactly how to realize the North-Norway. Because there has been a big change in the debate over the last few years, from the fact that representatives and parties who today, in this Chamber, are in favour of the North Norway Railway, to the fact that these parties and representatives have become in favour of the North Norway Railway. I see it as a great step forward. There are more parties than ever that say they're for the North-Norway. I'm glad of that change. I am also pleased with the change that has occurred in my own party. Because something's happened in the last year. Last year, when the investigation from the Directorate of Railways was presented, there was a very long-term investigation that had been looked forward to in North Norway. But it was deficient, very deficient, and it put a new guy in the debate. The clear message from the east, west, north and south of North Norway was that one would not find another investigation that was put in the drawer. One would not think that such an important project was not treated seriously enough or quickly enough. That is why I am also pleased that the Workers' Party was clear last year, first at the Vice-Chairman and then at the party leader that they wish the Nord-Norway track realized. This is also why in the autumn the Workers' Party proposed a separate concept selection inquiry for the North Norway Railway, which should be completed in time for the national transport plan. That's when the real discussions about transport across the country, including in North Norway, happen. That proposal was defeated. The same proposal cannot be made in the same session, so the Workers' Party proposed a new proposal in this case that the assessment of the North Norway Railway as part of the overall government transport assessment should be ready for the national transport plan. It's probably also going to cancel out. It's frustrating. We have lost valuable time on the road because this work has not been prioritised from summer 2019 until now. I believe that we were confirmed by the current Minister of Transport in the Chamber today. In the time that has gone from summer 2019 to today, it is largely the Progress Party that has had the post of Minister of Transport. If the will had been there, one would have had a separate KVU, as the Workers' Party proposed, or had done this work. What the Workers' Party proposes and wants is to get on the road, or at least on the rails, by approaching us with a realization of the track. Then it cannot be done easily, with a principle decision that in principle means very little when the real discussions are to be taken into NTP, but you have to have the basis you need to be able to say yes next spring when we are discussing the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7156	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7173	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7180	Today, there is the opening of the ‘Cycle to the job’ action. It shall be valid from 19 May to 30 June. It is not that you should not cycle at other times, but this is a very good action to get more people to use bicycles to and from work – that is now one thing – and all the activity should be measurable and not least reported. So good luck with that, everyone, also in this room. So to the matter, which concerns a proposal from the Central Party. We asked for a hearing in the committee, but a little surprising – at least for me, which is like a bicycle fan – there were only two who would attend that hearing. Then we asked them to make written recordings instead. It was still just the two who made their recordings, and they were very important, it wasn't, but I might have thought that the commitment to this with road norms and bike norms was greater. We've heard, and we've heard, stories from around the country that it's so hard to make local adjustments, that if you're going to use the state's cycling standards, it's going to be very expensive, and it's going to be very hard to get a pass on any other scheme. It might be like this around, but maybe it'll work out with dialogue? I think so. I have been a local government representative for many years and have been eager to get bicycle routes in Trondheim, and many have been built there both in my time and after that, and one has always managed to agree on a solution – although there are many different designs of these bike routes. In any case, we have also received a clear message from the Minister of Transport – the previous, however, but from a Minister of Transport – that these questions have already been raised with the State Road Administration. The state road authority is working on getting new standards, perhaps adapting the different needs according to where it is to be built. So I am really pleased that this matter is being taken further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7191	The working party is pleased that there is a dialogue with the State Road Service in order to start working on road standards, especially with a focus on greater use of functional requirements and costs, and also sees the need to look at changes in the law. Good standards for walking and cycling routes must be seen in the context of the zero growth target, which means that the growth of passenger transport is to be taken with collective, bicycle and gangways. We see that there may be a need to deviate from normal road conditions in different places in the country, in line with traffic volumes, and there is a need for guidelines on how to do this. Over the years, several different projects have been carried out to distinguish bicycles and pedestrians from car traffic, including: by increasing the width of the road without a physical distinction to vulnerable road users. This has now gone away, as it led to an increase in the speed of car traffic – I guess it ended because there were several accidents, and that is why someone is now using funds to get a physical distinction. In proposal No 1 from the minority, we ask the government: ‘to ensure that the road standards of the State Road Administration relating to the planning and construction of pedestrian and cycle roads develop more flexible standards which take into account different traffic volumes and thus different needs in different parts of the country’. [[...]] Proposal No. Article 2 is replaced by ‘The government is asking the government to explore the possibilities for more cost-effective deployment of cycling and walking infrastructure while at the same time strengthening the objectives of cycling, life-cycle costs, road safety, accessibility and safety experience. The use of financial incentives and amendment of legislation on cycling shall be included in the assessment.’;» I shall therefore refer to proposal No. 1 by the Labour Party and the Centre Party, and Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7211	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7216	I would like to thank the representatives of the Central Party for addressing an important issue. Right is busy with traffic safety, and it is a pleasure to see the positive development with fewer killed and seriously damaged traffic. Especially happy is that in 2019 no children were killed for the first time in traffic. What the proposers address, concerns planning and construction of walking and cycling roads where a search is made to develop more flexible standards to ensure that there are different traffic volumes and different needs in our long-range country. An example of this is from my neighbouring municipality of Witteseid in Telemark, which has worked for many years to get a one-way and cycle path along the rv. 41. The municipality has also made sound recordings in this matter and underlines the need for flexibility and deviations from norms. It is true that today road authorities may deviate from their own requirements, but it may seem that they are doing little. The right view is that there may be a need for better guidance on how this can be done. Right is the fact that a person exploits the space of action in the law to build traffic-proof solutions for our soft road users, and where a height of flexibility is taken so that as much as possible a safe and year-round traffic along walking and cycling roads can be achieved. When the choice can be a narrower walk and cycle path or no walk and cycle path along a less trafficked road, the answer is simple. In that case, the law should not prevent flexible solutions from being found. Right is therefore pleased that the then State Council Dale wrote in her letter of reply to the Committee: ‘The Ministry of Transport is already in dialogue with the State Road Service to initiate extensive work to review road standards among others with a view to increasing the use of functional requirements.’ The expectations from the Right are that it will be followed up by the current Hareide State Council, because this is a very important area where one can get faster development of walking and cycling roads based on the actual need and strengthen the road safety of the soft road users.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7234	Thank you to the Central Party, which has promoted a very important proposal and has given rise to an important debate. That deserves to be commended to the Center Party. We are very pleased that road standards are being challenged. That's something we in the Progress Party have been concerned about for many, many years, because we see that they don't work. There is absolutely a lot that not only needs to change in road normals, but it needs to change, and it has been a taboo for us in the Progress Party for many years. Fortunately, we got our former Transport Ministers from the Progress Party to start this work, so in the beginning we could actually support the proposal of the Centre Party. But it doesn't just keep with a small part of the changes in the N100 – the road standard book – it has to be a total review, and that's what the government has started. We almost think that we should give the new Minister of Transport some time to try to get the country the work that has been started, before we start drawing out single points in a complete book and overrule in a single area. We give the Minister an opportunity, but if what comes back from the government is not good enough according to what we in the Progress Party believe, and what I hear from most parties in the Chamber is clear, we are ready to take up the fight and like to have a majority proposal with the Center Party. But I actually believe that Hareide is listening, and that the minister is taking with him what he gets here today. Then it's not just useful to let the bureaucrats rule. Then he has to show political power and make sure that there are changes in line with the signals we're coming up with. The intent of the Center Party is very good. We want to have more cycling and walking, more public health out of tax money. Then we cannot doubt the expensive, high standards that make it not profitable to build bicycle and pedestrian routes in the countryside, and make them simply not able to do so either. It's in the counties we're basically struggling with. It's next to the county roads we need more bike and walking routes. But to be a little critical of the Central Party, there's also a little kick for their state politicians, because it's the state politicians who actually own the roads, and the management of the road network is transferred to the Vegvesen. Now the states themselves own the roads, so if they want to, and if they want, the state politicians around the country – and most of the counties, at least as I know, are largely run by the Workers' Party and the Center Party – it is possible to instruct the Road Administration. Unfortunately, the state politicians obviously don't do it to the Workers' Party and the Center Party, so both the Workers' Party and the Center Party meet themselves a little at the door here. I'll give you an example. Our government instructed the Road Administration to build a simpler bike and walkway on Kvikne on Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox I hope the minister will take that with me. Nothing has happened yet, although it is over a year since we asked Vegvesenet to start that work, so I hope the minister will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7249	The centre party has noticed that there has been criticism of today’s road standards for walking and cycling routes, where the lack of flexibility has been highlighted by several and that further development of road standards has gone too slowly. And although there were not so many at that hearing, we have received many input from local politicians before we promoted this proposal. The aim of the proposal is to increase road and cycle investment across the country. It is very important to provide security for people – and especially for young people – who travel along the road, while, of course, having a positive climate and health benefit if more people choose bicycles and walks in front of a car. The consultation by the Cyclattes Landsforening points out that today's road standards take into account different traffic volumes and that today's minimum width is 2.5 metres. They also point to the experience of the Municipality of Oslo, which has established its own standard for bicycle infrastructure, which many see as the best manual for bicycle planning in Norway. But Norway is not just cities. Norway is also a district municipality, as for example. Hadsel municipality, which has seven residential areas they want to expand, but they get built out only one of the seven because the costs of walking and cycling are too high. In district municipalities, walking and cycling routes may not need to be dimensioned in order for hundreds of exerciseists to cycle to work in condom dress. Maybe it's enough that the kids get a safe school route. Today's minimum width is 2.5 meters, but in reality it has to be added at 2 meters, because one has 1.5 meters from the highway and at least one half meter from the road shoulders. It's going to be 4.5 meters. Where it's 70 km/h, it's going to be at least 6 meters wide from the existing highway. In many smaller communities, this is much wider than the road that exists, so it makes it difficult, and it's expensive. But our motivation is more safe school roads and traffic trails, so I hope that there will be more flexible standards that take into account different traffic volumes and different needs in different parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7264	I also want to thank the Center Party for raising an important question. I think we're busy lifting a bike. It's like bicycles are good both for the environment, for the emergence of traffic, and not least for people's health. The case spokesperson, Jon Gunnes, told me about the ‘Cycle to the job’ action today. I was glad to open it. There are many people who thought I had opened it before, but there was only a parody of Harald Eia. So today I got it done in the real world, and I appreciate it. But I share what is vision and the idea here, that we want to build walking and cycling paths, and I also notice that what is said, including in this proposal, is that the threshold of deviation is high. I'm going to be so honest to say that I don't really mean that threshold is so high in reality, but when the experience is that it's a high threshold, it's a real challenge anyway. As the representative Johnsen also pointed out: the vegetarians, that is, municipalities and counties, you can organise your work, and they are the ones who have to decide on deviations. I want to listen to the vegetarians here, both to the municipalities and to the regional authorities. As the representative Abrahamsen and others have pointed out: we now have a work going on against the state road system, and we see, among other things. on this with functional requirements in order to obtain a better job. When we allow money to be spent on walking and incest, it is important that we get as much money back for those investments as possible. The Ministry will therefore have a significant focus on identifying measures that can help improve the development of walking and cycling facilities. If there are conditions at road standards that work unnecessarily depreciating and prevent increased efficiency in the development of pedestrian and cycle roads in Norway, we need to take a closer look at them. Then I also notice what the committee points to in its position, the work that the Municipality of Oslo has done. It will be described as the best guide for bicycle repair, what the Municipality of Oslo has done. That's good, it could be a good standard for the cities. But then one also points to, among other things, the National Association of Cyclists points out that having a minimum width is important. I thought this was an exciting challenge from Stortinget. We're going to go into that. We have to assume that the threshold of deviation is perceived as quite high. It is not in favour. We want to build as efficiently as possible on walking and cycling roads across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7279	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7284	I would like to quote someone who did not attend the hearing, but he has informed me earlier. He says that the first time he really saw the madness, was when he was with Trygve on a trip to some municipalities on the mission to get party teams started, and he drove kilometers on kilometers in the period half eight to eight, a period when people should be on their way to work etc. After many kilometers he saw an old man who walked on a once- and bicycle path that had a width almost corresponding to the width of the E6 on which he drove. Then he says, "It must be possible to dispensate." Or does this end up in a way that we do not build in relation to needs? Do the councils agree with him?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7292	That's how we need some standards for how we build walking and cycling roads, too. But I am concerned about what I said in my post, and I also want to point out to the representative Mossleth. Describe here that the deviation threshold is very high. I actually feel that the regulatory threshold is not so high, but it's a real challenge when that experience is there. That is why I want to go into this work with a dialogue with both counties and municipalities and see how a person can actually achieve the kind of deviation that I believe can be both wise and good. And it's also important that we don't now build installations that are too expensive. The public has tended to build a lot of Rolls-Royce while we can have a good Volvo standard that hits in a good way, and it's a real challenge. That is why I think this debate is important for my part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7297	There are some good arguments to think about before you build too simple and too cheap, and that's among other things. how maintenance is to be carried out with winter and snow and such. But I believe that the municipalities have a will and an ability to be flexible and include this in the calculations before they decide what kind of bike routes and routes they need in their municipality. There are many municipalities that have e.g. gangways sideways of bridges or narrow pavements, which have the machinery and equipment necessary to change this. So I hope that the Council of State gets ahead of this, so that we get that flexibility -- that you hurry up a little bit with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7302	The President reminds us of speaking to the President and not directly to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7307	I will nevertheless dare to investigate this matter because I think it is important. And if I can tell you what I'm thinking about this, it's that I want us to be able to vary according to the city, the country, according to the volume of traffic, according to the speed of the motorized traffic and the volume of traffic for the pedestrians and the sick. We know that's different. So we feel that the very possibility of deviation is perceived to be quite large. I'm not so sure that the code is as rigid as it gets experienced, but when that experience is there, it's a real challenge. When we now review this, we have the possibility to get better solutions, and that's my intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7312	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7331	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7338	Today, we have received a press release from the government that it rejects the proposal to transfer the administrative responsibility for the state's properties at NMBU, NTNU and the universities of Bergen, Oslo and Tromsø to Stadsbyg. Nevertheless, as the rapporteur, I will follow the standard procedure and present the Committee's position. The opinion on the proposal for a representative, from the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Sigbjørn Gælsvik, Heidi Greni and Kjersti Toppe, proposes the following: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain the ownership of the property so that the self-managing institutions in the higher education sector continue to manage their own properties and building stock.’ The Minister for Research and Higher Education delivered an opinion on the draft representative in a letter to the Committee of 21 February. In the letter, the Council of State clarified that he had to wait for two processes from the government before he could decide on the proposal. This was the case with the working group which investigated the consequences of integrating Campus Ås into the State Home Rent Scheme, managed by Stadsbyggen, and with regard to the monitoring of own property management which all departments, except the Ministry of Defence, provided as a basis for assessing future management. The Education and Research Committee then held a hearing on the matter on 5 March and sent its opinion to the Municipal and Management Committee on 21 April. On 5 May the Municipal and Management Committee adopted the following opinion: ‘The Committee refers to the comments and proposals of the members of the respective parties on the Education and Research Committee and supports them. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party further ask the Government to examine an alternative model for state-owned buildings corresponding to New Veger. These members consider competition to be the strongest incentive for development, continuity, less red tape and reduced costs. These members are somewhat concerned about the monopoly structure of state buildings, which is why these members believe it would be wise to set up a similar model after New Roads that has been a great success.’ The Education and Research Committee has registered that the government has area reviews in different policy areas. In the reports of Capgemini Invent, which reviewed construction and property policy in the state civil sector, it became among other things. recommend the termination of the model of state self-government institutions and the inclusion of all civil state property in the national rental scheme, which is managed by State Building. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, which recommends that the draft representative should not be adopted. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7363	The representative Nina Sandberg has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7368	The clarification that came from the government today was not unexpected. It is positive for the debate that it was put in place for treatment in the main hall today. Nor should it be a surprise that today's government parties are constantly working systematically to review different areas, with the aim of improving efficiency and improving them. As we write in the attitude being treated today, this work has been done thoroughly and systematically and on a good knowledge basis. It has, among other things, have been engaged by an external consultancy company, which has provided two management and organisational reports in 2019. In one of these reports, a recommendation was made to wind up the model of state self-government institutions and to include all civil government property in the country’s housing scheme. It is then important to say that from the Right we have always pointed out that the recommendation has not taken sufficient account of the specificities and diversity of the different universities and colleges of the country. And on the government side, it's been a thorough process, like, among other things. have involved the parties concerned and there has been a good dialogue with the sector to identify any weaknesses and benefits that have been identified in the reports. Today, we have established that there is a broad majority to support the strategic interest and importance of building mass in the university and higher education sectors for both flexibility and long-term planning. Together with the government's offensive initiative through the long-term plan and through study places, we now see that the university and higher education sectors are doing very well. We are doing better and better in research, and we are on the right track to lift higher education and research in Norway. There should be more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7379	The party of progress has not been a particularly big supporter of state buildings taking over the buildings of universities and colleges. There was also the review tone at the hearing, where all the universities that were present said they very much wanted to have that administrative responsibility. The party of progress has been clear and direct to the government parties and government councils that we did not have a positive attitude to it. We have, however, had such great respect for the fact that there is a much greater review than just this, and that we would wait until we came to a conclusion. We were very happy when we read in the class struggle today that the government has now reached a conclusion in this area. So one explanation of vote: the Party of Presidents is going to vote for it to be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7386	52 pst. by the property stock of universities and higher education institutions is managed by the maritime sector. It's made sense, they've done that in a good way. It has meant little red tape, it has meant that these buildings have been used in professional work and as a strategic tool. That was also the background for the Central Party promoting this proposal: why should a change work well? Why should a take from universities and colleges the strategic possibility of being able to dispose of their areas in the way they have done? Today, we see that political pressure is working. It works with political proposals in Stortinget. It also works with unisonary pressure from the sector affected by it. All of the universities that were at the hearing were negative to the proposals that were presented – and it works. That's good. That is why the Council of State has put everything to rest today. That makes sense. That was the only right thing to do. At the same time, one must remember that the area crossing that came did not come flying through the air. It was ordered, it was ordered by a government. It was ordered by a government that might have thought that with invoicing and administration of state buildings, it would be more efficient. It is possible that it was ordered by a government that thought that a state monopoly such as State Building would manage these properties better. I think we should remember that this area review was actually ordered by someone – by a government that wanted a change. It's not the first time the Right in Government wants it either. Also in the early 2000s, the Right tried the exact same thing – an area review where State buildings were to take over responsibility for the property mass of universities and colleges. I am glad that the power of the proposal that was put forward was so great that it helped to stop it. I am glad that the sector was so unison that it helped to make it clear that this was an unwise proposal, and thus pressured the Council of State to come up with what was the only sensible thing today, namely a press release where he says he will put it all aside. It is excellent and good – politics works.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7399	Yesterday, when I wrote the article on this matter, I wrote this hard-hitting opening – and I must be allowed to quote myself: This should have been a non-thing. I think we actually agree, but still the government parties and the Progress Party are unable to land the matter and get it out of the world. It would show the power of action and the will to listen. But these are two properties the majority obviously is not willing to show in this case. 'A little wise' was my judgment, therefore, when a collective sector, the university leaders, the student leaders and the trade unions opposed this proposed change. Fortunately, the Council of State managed to cut through during the night and showed the power and willingness to listen. He's supposed to be very grateful for that. However, it is very critical that the government has put a single sector in high voltage, spending time and resources on them, for example. to go to consultation in Oslo and not least caused much anxiety. For the sector it was significant that they were at risk of losing the self-management of the property. The result would be a cutting-edge sector that would have reduced the ability to be a driving force in its own institution. If my government had done this to me as a committee member, I would have been careful. The obscurity speech in an annotation form is not particularly funny, and those from the government parties who have been on the committee have had to be in a storm. But that's not my problem. I am pleased that the government is now planning to maintain the property authorisation, so that the self-managing institutions in the university and higher education sectors will continue to manage their own properties and their own building stock.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7412	The higher education sector is an important sector with a large societal mission. At the heart of this societal task is the specific needs of the sector for different types of land and infrastructure. They need proximity to special areas and educational facilities, and their management is an important issue for the sector. Buildings and properties are therefore important for the professional activities of universities and their strategic development of educational provision and research at institutions. It's about land, infrastructure and ownership, but it's mostly about values, because property has the ability to create values, for both owner and user. Construction thus becomes an input factor in line with other resources in research and higher education. The building mass in the higher education sector is of great strategic interest and has enormous importance for both flexibility and opportunities for strategic and long-term planning. I will be brief: That is why I am very pleased that the Government and the Minister of Research and Higher Education today have concluded on the future organisation of the ownership of state universities and universities, and thus put a stop to this debate in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7421	I must almost begin by regretting that the representative of Fagerås was not able to keep his entire post. I thought it was a very good start, and I'm sure there were three angry minutes we were robbed right now. In the spring of 2019, the government was given an area review of the building and property policy in the state civil sector. Here is one of the recommendations that the administrative responsibility for state properties is transferred to State Building. As I mentioned in my written reply to the Committee, the government would decide to follow this up during 2020. As noted, the government has now taken a decision on this issue. We have decided that the property of the State at NMBU, UiB, UiO, UiT and NTNU should not be incorporated into the state's rental scheme and managed by State Building. The most important thing for the government is that students and employees have a good framework for education and research, not primarily who manages the buildings. These institutions have worked well in the management of buildings and property in recent years, and the government will instead assess other measures that can facilitate the continued good management of the university property portfolio but then as self-managing institutions. I look forward to working with the self-managing institutions in the university and higher education sectors to identify and implement good measures that ensure the proper care of their property.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7432	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7438	The government obviously has a strong desire to streamline the right-wing efficiency of the university and higher education sector, which transfers market logic to the public sector. For example, the government of Erna Solberg has the work of proposing that universities and colleges become enterprises, and the percentage of red tape and efficiencies paid is repeated year after year. A central trust vote in the Right recently stated undisputedly in the media that the ABE cuts must be doubled. Fortunately, today the government’s vision is rejected that university property management should be centralised and exercised through an order-executor model. The Labour Party has been working against this type of controversial and dysfunctional right-wing policy, which has unduly disturbed the sector. Therefore, my question is: can the Council of State inform about what efficiency measures the sector can expect from the right-wing government in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7445	Let me start by saying that I am very proud to be a member of a government that is busy getting a reasonable resource use of the tax money we use. That means you have to have a discussion all the time if we're using them properly, and if we get enough of the money we're taking from the taxpayers. Some of the background to this discussion is really a long way back, all the way back in 2012, when the National Audit Office made a rather critical report on how the self-managing universities had taken care of their property and invested in maintenance. There's a completely different situation now. Now the situation is that these universities take very good care of their properties. For this reason, it is not necessary to transfer this to State Building, precisely because it has improved. The question from the representative was what efficiency improvements the sector can expect in the future. Well, they can expect 5,000 new study places, and they can expect additional investment in property and construction, for example. the 161 million. NOK we have today allowed to upgrade the buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7454	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now I just mentioned the so-called ABE cuts. Recently, Højre's representative Stefan Heggelund went out in the evening post and ordered the Right to double the ABE cuts to 1.2 pst. per year until 2030. Now, in the sixth year, the university and higher education sectors already have a huge accumulated deficit and experience that annual budget cuts go beyond the quality of both research and education. The Labour Party has said that we in the government will stop the ABE cuts and rather pursue a targeted priority. The chairperson of the Board of Governors of the University and Higher Education Council is clear that the right-wing doubling of the cuts will affect the core activity. My final question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State think that this proposal will build up under the government's explicit commitment to research and higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7463	Select the audio output device to use here. This option will be used to see the output files in the right hand side. I think we're going to be prepared for both big business representatives and others, from all sides, to fan ideas for the future, and I think that's very, very good. I am also a member of the ABE reform. It's not like we've zeroed the policy, because first we say you have to find ways to work smarter and prevent bureaucracy. Then we take the profits we have, and further bets, and use it to focus on just quality, on research and on education. The sector for which I am now responsible has been given increased budgets and additional quality through all these years of civil government. It also makes us get more money back from research abroad, it makes us rust up barley, and it makes us train more students. It makes us do all of these important things just to make the quality go up. But also to make some demands for improving the efficiency of the public sector, I'm going to be too still.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7472	It's kind of embarrassing that one jumps off at the last turn, like one did in this case. [[Laughter]] The whole sector — all the institutions — was very clear when they were at the hearing, but in what the government has today sent out, it has suddenly been excluded from Norway’s sports college. Why can't Norway's sports college also be allowed to manage its own property, in the same way as the others? When someone from the government says it's so important to everyone else – why isn't it important for Norway's high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7479	I don't know if I've jumped off in the last turn, but I'm trying to answer as best I can the questions being asked. I also record that the representative Arnstad himself has taken credit for the government's decision today. It is probably not just the proposal from the Central Party that the government has put on what it has; it is also because we believe that this is the right decision. There are different ownership in our education sector, and that is also well explained in the comments of the Committee. About 25 pst. rented in the private market, 25 pst. is managed by State Building and slightly above 50 pst. is self-managed property. When we said that the universities we have completed today, which are large institutions, are going to be allowed to manage further, I said at the same time that I am not now ready to say that this also applies to Norway's sports college, precisely because it is a smaller institution with a complicated property mass. So I don't think it's a principle for anyone that everything should be managed by the institutions themselves. In that case, you had to take over the 25 pst. which is currently managed by State Building.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7488	It's true that it's approx. 52 pst. of the property mass of universities and higher education institutions managed by the maritime sector. In the debate here today, we have heard a lot of praises about how good they have been, how good they have been, even after the National Audit Office's report in 2012, and how important it is that they are also allowed to do so in the future. But I find it difficult to understand that that respect for self-government should apply to everyone, but not to Norway's sports school. As far as I can see from the press releases that have come from the department today, the explanation is not that Norway’s sports college has a complex structure. I read the press release so that it's because they have such a simple building mass compared to the other universities that one should not have the same kind of respect for them as for the other big universities. I think it's a little too bad. I think that if one first takes the step and lets those who are now managing the sea, be allowed to do it in the future, it should apply to all those who are now managing the sea, including the Norwegian Sports School. I hope that the Council of State will come up with better thoughts and make sure that they also get that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7493	We have also not concluded on Norway’s high school on sports – it is important to say – but it was important for us now to find out what we want to do with the major universities, who have asked about this for a long time. I don't see any reason to wait to clarify for them even though we have one college left that we still consider. As I said, there are also major institutions that have their administration in State Building. It is worth asking whether Stortinget really believes that, for example. OsloMet, here in Oslo, should take over all its buildings that are currently managed by State Building or rented in the private market, or if you agree with what the government really says, that it is not a principle that either everything should be self-managed, or it should be managed by State Building. We need to see what works and works well, and I believe we do in this matter. We have a pragmatic and good central orientation of our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7500	Now I'm wondering a little bit what the Council of State really means. Does the government mean that those who today are maritime administrators do well, or does the government think they don't? Does the government really think that it would have made sense that state buildings had taken over everything, and that one had made a model à la what OsloMet has, where they are either managed by state buildings or market tenants? Is there a solution that the government really seems to have been okay for the other universities as well? I accept that there's some inequality in the sector today, but taking from those who are now maritime administrators, the ability they have to use it strategically, is the main point here. That main point must be established no matter what solutions OsloMet has or does not have. The objections raised by the maritime sector, that taking over State buildings will lead to rigidity, can lead to free space because one cannot afford to rent, and can lead to a failure to use it as a strategic tool, must also be established. Does the Council of State agree with the institutions in that, or does he not agree with them?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7509	Let me answer as clearly as I can at all. Question no. 1: Do I mean that they manage it well today? Yeah, I mean it. And that's why I've made this decision and announced today that we'll let them manage it further, because it works so well. I think we politicians think it's fun to debate, we like to create conflict and like to discuss. What I now experience is that the whole Storting agrees on the same thing, and that the government agrees with Stortinget. We have to be able to enjoy that in a everyday life where we often have to discuss different things and have different solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7516	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7524	As many have experienced, universities and colleges have an important mandate for society, both in education and research. But we've also called for closer links to what's happening in the business world, and what's happening in the public sector, and not least that you're also more capable of getting this interdisciplinary. Therefore, it has been a pleasure that the University of Bergen – I know Bergen best – has established a media cluster, and is now on its way to creating health clusters and energy clusters. Because they have succeeded, it has been absolutely essential that they have had control of their own building mass. So it's also about developing quality and developing the offer, not just for the students, because it benefits them very well with that connection, but also for the research environment and really for value creation across society. So the main concern from the University of Bergen has been that they haven't had the tools to further develop that piece. Then I see that Norway's School of Commerce – not necessarily because it's a business college – has chosen State Building because it suits them best. The choice, that they can choose for themselves, is at least the Workers' Party concerned, because it's very good with State Building, and we have good experience with them in developing new building mass, and the way they do it. So that freedom of choice is absolutely crucial, but the University of Bergen had never been where they are today, with those clusters, without controlling the building mass. So I hope that there will be not only principles, but also the content of the outcome of the debate, and that they will now have certainty in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7533	Even though I know the Minister of Research and Higher Education as a sensible man, I would like to commend him today for having taken the sense of this matter. Taking away from higher education institutions the management of their own buildings was an unnecessary proposal. It created uncertainty, and it belongs in a drawer. I know it's not the government's own proposal, but it's the government's responsibility that the sector has lived in uncertainty for one year after the government got the area review it had asked for. This therefore led to strong warnings from the sector. Our northernmost university, the University of Tromsø, characterised the proposal as an increased centralization that would lead to the cutting of the UiT wing and reduce UiT's ability to be a driving force in the north. One of the tools available to universities to achieve their objectives is the buildings adapted to research and education. Buildings can be tailored to the needs they need to meet and can be adapted when needs change, because they own the buildings themselves and make independent decisions about new buildings and renovations. Nevertheless, for months universities have believed that they were at risk of losing the management of their own property. Today – incidentally on the same day that this debate was due to take place – the message came that the proposal was being scrapped. It's a pleasure. But what's left after the last year is that the government has dragged the sector through months of uncertainty for no reason. It's taken energy, and it's taken time from the institutions that they should spend on other tasks. Rather than warning the government, they could spend time planning education and community building. But there's a lesson here for future things. I want to quote the director of the Research Association, Guro Elisabeth Lind: «With this decision, Asheim universities ensure greater predictability for an uncertain period and continued long-term autonomy. I hope the government learns from this. For the second time in a few years, it has initiated extensive processes that no one in the sector has requested. First the idea of a business model, and now this. If the government wants an efficient higher education sector, they should listen more and experiment less.’ I say like the Research Association: Government should take lessons from this matter. This type of proposal, which no one has asked for and which is centralising and bureaucratic, should be scrapped for good. Decisions should be taken that remove this kind of uncertainty quickly and do not allow it to go out. After all, universities and colleges have all the better things to spend time on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7549	For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that construction is an important strategic resource for research and higher education, and that universities and colleges managing their own property and building stock will continue to do so. We believe that knowledge organisations should be managed on a trust-based basis, and that teachers themselves should be given the choice of property management model. The Labour Party has repeatedly asked the State Council for Research and Higher Education why the government decided to transfer the property management of universities and higher education institutions to Statsbyggen, but received only answers from the then municipal minister. She replied that the government would ‘look at the adequacy of national resource use in this area’. [[...]] Furthermore, she replied: ‘There is a lot of evidence to suggest that, through the professionalisation of their rental of premises, the State can get significantly more out of these resources.’ Thus, there is a narrow economy behind both the initiative of the government and the recommendations in the consultant's report. Of course, the Labour Party supports the proposal of the Centre Party, and I am pleased to note that the government today has decided to abandon its right-wing policy and scrap its initiative. But all those who rejoice that the government does not conduct their own policies should be aware that this is not the first time, and hardly the last time, the bourgeois propose such as this. Over the past 15 years, proposals have been made in the same street that has been scrambled according to the resistance of the sector. These are controversial policies in which the sector was not involved before the principals were called in haste after the government had been sitting on the report for four months. Leadership, students and trade unions opposed it unisonably, and trade unions called for more transparency. It is important to be aware that the government's proposal to take over state buildings applies to all self-managed property in the state civil sector. The issue of property management is complex, it is comprehensive and it is important for the community. Therefore, the Labour Party advises the Government not to use the type of procedure to which the university and higher education sectors have been subjected, and encourages thorough knowledge-based processes involving those concerned before decisions are taken for other sectors of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7570	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-19.ana.ud528e7585	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
