ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e128	His Fredrik Gruvan will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e133	On behalf of the representatives of Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal, Steinar Reiten, Torill Selsvold Nyborg and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal to amend Section 93 of the Constitution on the protection of life from conception to natural death.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e138	The representative, Solvency Horne, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e143	On behalf of the big business representative Terje Halleland and myself, I am pleased to promote a constitutional proposal to repeal Section 117 on the abolition of the right to vote and to sit down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e148	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, will present four draft constitutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e153	I have the pleasure of submitting four constitutional proposals. The first is based on the proposal of the Electoral Committee for amendments to the Electoral Act. It is a cross-political group of members of the Control and Constitutional Committee who have found it appropriate to promote all those proposals in order to facilitate an open debate at the next big stage. It goes without saying that one cannot agree with all the proposals, but it provides a basis for next major treatment. The draft constitution is promoted by Eva Kristin Hansen, Magne Rommetveit, Svein Harberg, Bente Stein Mathisen, Solveig Horne, Terje Breivik, Ulf Leirstein and myself. Then there are three proposals discussed during this period, where there has been a broad consensus on the intention, but not agreement on wording. We have then tried to do a job to sew together a basis for discussion in the next period. The first proposal concerns gatherings as indigenous peoples in the Basic Law § 108, which is promoted by Eva Kristin Hansen, Magne Rommetveit, Svein Harberg, Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Freddy André Øvstegård, Terje Breivik, Nils T. Bjørke, Une Bastholm, Bjørnen Moxnes and myself. Then there is a change in the Basic Act § 112a on Free Living Marine Resources. There is a draft constitution from representatives Eva Kristin Hansen, Magne Rommetveit, Svein Harberg, Bente Stein Mathisen, Nils T. Bjørke, Terje Breivik and myself. Finally, it is a proposal for the foundation of the Allemannsrecht, promoted by the representatives of Svein Harberg, Magne Rommetveit, Eva Kristin Hansen, Bente Stein Mathisen, Freddy André Øvstegård, Karin Andersen, Terje Breivik, Une Bastholm, Bjørna Moxnes and myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e168	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e173	On behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Petter Eide, Solveig Schytz, Terje Breivik, Une Bastholm, Bjørn Moxnes and myself, I would like to put forward a draft constitution to legislate on the right to asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e179	The representative, Freddy André Oberstegård, will present three draft constitutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e184	I have a great pleasure in putting forward three constitutional proposals. The first is on behalf of the representatives of Mona Fagerås, Lars Haltbrecken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Solfrid Lerbreck and myself on the introduction of the 16-year voting rights. The second is a proposal on behalf of the big business representative Audun Lysbakken and myself to amend § 68 of the Constitution that Stortinget meets earlier. The last is a proposal on behalf of Karin Andersen, Nicholas Wilkinson, Audun Lysbakken and myself on a new section 107 on the right to housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e195	Constitutional proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e202	On behalf of the representatives Sylvi Listhaug, Morten Stordalen, Tor André Johansen, Erlend Wiborg and myself, I am delighted to make a common, representative proposal, but an important representative proposal, on the simplification of cars in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e207	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e212	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of Karin Andersen, Lars Haltbrecken and myself on the vaccination programme for adults and risk groups to minimise infection and strengthen public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e217	The representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e222	On behalf of the representatives Kjersti Toppe, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, I would like to propose a new policy for financing and dimensioning public hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e227	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e232	Red proposes to reintroduce the holiday supplement to the daily allowance and a proposal to ensure a fair distribution of goods and burdens resulting from the coronary apathy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e237	The representative, Katrine Boel Gregussen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e243	On behalf of Lars Haltbrecken, Nicholas Wilkinson, Mona Fagerås, Arne Nävra, Karin Andersen and myself, I present a proposal for a representative to ensure the settlement of all people who are allowed to stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e248	The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e253	On behalf of the representatives of Rigmor Aasrud, Lise Christoffersen, Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen, Terje Aasland, Åsunn Lyngedal and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal on social demands in public acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e258	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e263	On behalf of the representatives Else-May Norderhus, Terje Aasland, Tone Merete Sønsterud, Karin Andersen, Lars Haltbrecken, Arne Nävra and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to clean up the mining pollution in Folldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e268	The representative of Mr Ingvild Kjerkol will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e273	I have the pleasure of promoting two representative proposals. One is from Lene Vågslid, Tore Hagebakken, Tuva Moflag, Tellef Inge Mørland, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Maria Aasen-Svensrud, Jan Bøhler and myself on action against quacksalvery and a better prioritisation of health resources. Then I put forward a proposal from the big business representatives Jonas Gahr Støre, Tore Hagebakken, Tuva Moflag, Tellef Inge Mørland, Kari Henriksen and myself to stop privatization and prevent a two-part health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e282	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will draw attention to the fact that the cases are No. 2–4 on the current map has not been out of the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Rules of Procedure § 46. However, the President will propose that matters be dealt with. No objections have been raised against this. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e304	Let me start by thanking you for the opportunity to come to Stortinget to explain the status and management of the outbreak of the coronavirus. Norway has experienced the most serious crisis since World War II. The government has implemented very interventional measures that have had a major impact on all parts of society. Before Stortingen splits up for the summer, I want to brief the Government on the government's assessment of the way forward. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good cooperation through what I think we can all say has been an intensive one. First of all, I would like to say a little bit about where we are today. Turn down the strategy chosen by the government in the early phase of the outbreak has been well along the way. The measures have been effective. The Norwegian people have set up the greatest effort of our time. The action has produced results. We have been able to take the day back, but there is still a different everyday life we are moving towards. There is still a risk of flare-up of infection and spread of infection. We must therefore be prepared to bring down new outbreaks, both nationally and locally. The government has therefore moved on to a control strategy. In the future, testing, isolation and tracking will be important to maintain control. When the Minister of Health told the Stortinget on 10 March, all reported cases of infection had been traced abroad, or they had been infected by someone who had been abroad. After 10 March, the situation developed very quickly. Number of sessions infected. At the same time, there were reports that it was not possible to trace where more people had been infected. The virus spread uncontrollably in Norway. There was little knowledge about the virus, how it spread, and how many people were going to need hospitalization and intensive care. With the situation in other countries, inter alia: Italy, as a hindrance, was essential to avoid the infection peak being so high that it exceeded the capacity of healthcare. Therefore, on 12 March, with the support of the Minister of Health and Welfare and myself, the health authorities decided to take action to combat the spread of infectious diseases. It was clear that the measures would have a major impact on the Norwegian economy and society. But our assessment was that the alternative appeared to be worse, for both life and health, social life and economics. The decision would give us time — time to build preparedness and get more knowledge about treatment and better ways to prevent dispersal. The measures introduced were unparalleled in modern times. The interventional measures led to the transition from a health crisis to a crisis with consequences for all parts of society. On 13 March, therefore, the Ministry of Justice and Defence took over as head of the Ministry of National Coordination for Crisis Management. Internationally, the pandemic has led to the strongest economic downturn since the 1930s. Millions of people were unemployed. In Norway too, value creation is falling sharply. While many enterprises have had to stop or re-establish operations as a result of the disease protection measures, others have experienced lower demand or production constraints due to lack of labour or delays in delivery. In order to limit the adverse effects of virus outbreaks on the Norwegian economy, businesses and workplaces, very extensive financial measures have been put in place. The government has promoted a number of issues for the Storting, with proposals for both general schemes and targeted actions for groups and individual industries. The size ensured rapid handling of cases, but has also contributed to new measures and strengthening government action. We have stressed that otherwise healthy and viable farms should not succumb to virus control and avoid unnecessary redundancies. It ensures profitable jobs and value creation and reduces the risk of high unemployment being permanently fixed. The nature of the crisis, the intervention measures and the involvement of all sectors have made it natural for decisions to be taken at government level on changes in disease protection measures. The Technical Council of the Directorate for Health and the Institute for Public Health has been central to almost all decisions. However, it is the responsibility of the government to take decisions after a complete balance for reasons. A number of decisions had to be taken on short notice and with considerable uncertainty. Some had to be adjusted along the way, and with current knowledge different decisions could be made. However, the government’s assessment today is that the choice of overall strategy was correct. We have also had plans and regulations that were useful when the crisis came. Among other things, the national health preparedness plan, which is the national framework for all types of health crises, and the national preparedness plan for outbreaks of serious infectious diseases have been important. It is also an important principle that all major events should be evaluated. The government has therefore, following dialogue with the parties at Stortinget, set up an independent commission to get a thorough and comprehensive review and evaluation of our management of the covid-19 pandemic. The Commission will look at both the preparedness we had in front of the pandemic and how the crisis is managed. Eventually, it became clear that the measures for the protection of infection were working. The spread of infectious diseases was decreasing, and we could start a cautious tightening of the measures. The government decided that it would happen over time, together and controlled. This approach is still valid. In the reopening phase, the government has chosen to give priority to children and young people first, then to working life and other areas after that. It is based on a recognition of the impact of infectious diseases on children and young people, and in particular those who had a difficult history. The government has therefore been working to put in place measures that will benefit these children ever since the Coronapandemic came. In the future, the government will also give priority to helping students who have lost their progress as a result of the pandemic. On 7 May, the government presented a plan for further management and a timetable for the gradual phasing-out of the most interventional measures. The spread of infection was then so low that the government could change the strategy from shutting down the virus to maintaining control of the spread of infection. We've stuck to the plan. Activities and activities that have been closed have gradually opened up. Something remains, for example: arrangements are limited to 200 persons and the rules for keeping distance. The pandemic has also made it necessary to limit cross-border traffic, with quarantine rules, restrictions on entry and travel advice. It has had major consequences for migrant workers, tourism, trade and people-to-people contact. As the infection spread internationally, the U.D. for the first time in history gave a travel council where all travel abroad was dismissed. When the Global Travel Council was introduced, the situation was very inconceivable. The pandemic spread rapidly. Most countries in the world introduced drastic measures. Closed airspace, closed borders, port bans and quarantine requirements were introduced quickly and often without prior notice. Norwegian citizens travelling were therefore encouraged to go home. From mid-March until today, the U.D. received some 40 000 enquiries from people who wanted advice and guidance on repatriation. Fortunately, most people have come home themselves. But from a few places it is unfortunately still not possible to travel. Some are therefore still in a difficult situation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Transport bisto several thousand Northmen on their return journey, and Norway also cooperated successfully with the Nordic countries and the EU to help the Nordics return home. Now, once again, we can travel in the Nordic region, there are criteria for the disease situation in each region that lie at the heart of it. In addition, each Nordic country will have its own restrictions. We all have to respect these and conform to them. Based on assessments by health authorities, the government will provide more information on travel to and from neighbouring European countries by 20 July. Objective criteria for infection will also apply here. Infectious imports from abroad may pose the greatest risk of the outbreak flare-up. How infection can be included from other countries, so we clearly returned from vacations in Italy and Austria in winter. By taking steps forward, it is easier for us to maintain control. When we chose to open the frontier, it was therefore natural to start with our Nordic neighbours and have a gradual approach to further opening. If this goes well, we can take new steps later. A national effort has been required to control the spread of infection. Many have contributed a lot, and the consequences have been great. Hundreds of thousands of workers have been permitted. In socially critical functions, such as transport, groceries and police, it has been necessary to keep wheels running, despite a contagious disease in society. Their efforts have been important in a critical situation for Norway. All the others who have changed quickly deserve a thank you, for example. teachers and university staff, turning around and creating new digital educational systems, enterprises that have facilitated home offices and that have relocated their operations to ensure the protection of infectious diseases. The hospital staff have changed their business, taken on new tasks and set up in a fantastic way to care for those who have become ill. The same has happened in the care of the elderly. The most important measure to reduce infection has been that we have kept away from each other and limited social contact with friends, colleagues and family. Too many people have just done this heavy. So I want to take the opportunity to extend a great thank you to all those who have contributed to the effort. Accessibility and crisis communication have been important to the government. We have held regular press conferences and participated in newscasts, debates and interviews. Our health services and health services have skilled professionals who have been available to the media and communicate openly about the handling, sharing their knowledge and responding to counter-conceptions. We have focused on creating realistic expectations of the duration and extent of the crisis, communicating clearly the uncertainty that has occurred, and the costs that the crisis could bring to society and individuals. It has been important for the government to ensure sufficient foundations for the adoption of the measures necessary to control the pandemic, while ensuring legal certainty for individuals. In addition, different adaptations have been needed to keep our society going. The most interventional measures have been laid down by law on infectious diseases. These are homes that were already there and that made it possible to respond quickly to the situation that arose. Under the terms of the IPD Act, health authorities and the government have, among other things, laid down rules on quarantine and isolation, the closure of schools, the prohibition of special events and establishments, the expulsion of non-residents without a residence permit and the prohibition of residence on recreational property outside their own municipality. In many areas it was possible to make adjustments by implementing existing regulatory homes. A total of 60 regulations have been laid down on the basis of such existing legislation. However, a number of laws were lacking the necessary regulatory homes. The Korona Act then gave the government the opportunity to set up the necessary measures. The government included: in the early stages of a temporary regulation extending the right of courts to use remote meeting technology. Similar solutions have been put in place in the field of child protection and in the field of health care. The Korona Act ended on 27 May and the regulations were largely replaced by temporary legal regulation. We have been in a situation where it was necessary to act quickly. It has therefore not been possible to carry out normal consultation processes. However, the government has endeavoured to carry out rapid hearings where possible. When regulations have to be set at a high pace, it goes without saying that they do not necessarily have the same clarity and quality as others. An important part of the evaluation will be to look at how we should develop and improve our emergency legislation. In the process of adopting the necessary legislative changes, the Stortinget has acted quickly, which in turn has enabled the necessary measures to be taken. I would like to thank Stortinget for a good cooperation in this period. There is reason to be impressed by how healthcare in the country has worked through this crisis. Among other things, the results of intensive treatment are good. This has contributed to the relatively few deaths in Norway. Considerable efforts have also been made to plan for an emergency situation requiring very high intensive capacity. Rapid training, skills development and recruitment of new personnel have been necessary. We hope, of course, that we do not get there that we need to use this reinforced preparedness, but the experience from other countries shows that it is necessary to have good plans for sufficient intensive capacity in an emergency. Infectious infections and the preparation to receive a high number of covid-19 patients in hospitals have made it necessary to postpone much other activity. In addition, the decrease in activity was increased due to illness and quarantine of employees, and because patients themselves cancelled their hours. On 17 April, as we were given control of the spread of infection, regional health establishments were asked to step up gradually again to more normal operations. Although all hospital wards do not yet have full capacity due to infectious diseases, they are working both to provide patients with a good treatment provision and to gradually reduce the delays that have developed. This work shall also use the free capacity of private partners to reduce waiting times. In the context of RNB, hospitals' budgets are strengthened by over 6.6 billion. kr. In the future, the government will give priority to bringing down health cows, but we must nevertheless be prepared that it may take time before waiting times are down to the level they were before the crisis. This is due, inter alia, to: hospitals must maintain their preparedness for a new wave. In particular, older people over 80 years of age have become seriously ill by covid-19, and more than half of the deaths have occurred in hospitals. It has been a major challenge for municipalities to protect their elderly and to provide good health and care services at the same time. It has been a burden for children, young people and the elderly who receive care services, and not least for their relatives, that there have been very limited opportunities for visits and contacts. Now that the epidemic has been under control, we are making it possible for residents of institutions, both hospitals and children's homes, to be visited as far as possible and to the best of their ability. Several countries, including Norway, have faced challenges to scale up the capacity to test suspected infections. Despite this, in a short time after the national outbreak of infection, Norway was able to reach the world peak in the proportion of the population tested. Since then, the global lack of chemicals for laboratory analysis created new challenges. However, we have now been able to significantly extend the capacity, including: by a NTNU developed method of analysis. Norway now has an analytical capacity that can meet the need for a much more infectious situation than what we see today. We're building a standby to test up to 5 pst. by the population, corresponding to about 300000 persons, each week. But up until the summer, the Public Health Institute has estimated that a test capacity of about 1.5 pst. In most municipalities, the needs of the population are likely to be met on a weekly basis. The municipalities have done a good job of sampling and infection tracking. If the infection situation develops in a negative direction beyond the year, the detection of infection may be put under pressure. We are working on identifying measures that can address this, including: electronic sharing of test responses to citizens and health professionals, simpler testing methods and use of the Anti-Infection Stop app. During the whole corona crisis, the government has been concerned that everyone working in the health and care services should be able to go safely to work and have the infectious diseases equipment they need. We have established a national system for the purchase and distribution of infectious disease protection equipment for the entire healthcare system, including the municipalities. This mechanism has effectively ensured good deliveries in a very challenging global situation. Agreements have been concluded with several Norwegian producers who have converted their activities into the production of vector equipment. We continue to build up stocks and now have better stocks than before. With the orders we have now made from foreign and Norwegian producers, we can meet the need for most of the infectious equipment in the next 12 months. This applies to a situation with widespread spread of infection. Access to medicines is a challenge in Norway and Europe. It was before the outbreak of covid-19. The government has therefore worked systematically over a long time to strengthen drug preparedness. Demand for medicinal products under covid-19 has increased because many countries have started national preparedness storage, and there are challenges in the production of medicinal products and in the global supply chain. The government has ensured access for the population to medicinal products under covid-19 by adopting restrictions on the marketing of exports, rationalisation and priority. In addition, agreements have been concluded with the pharmaceutical wholesalers which increase our emergency stocks of medicinal products in addition to the ordinary stocks. The Government is now assessing, as part of its efforts to strengthen the preparation of medicinal products, the possibilities for the production of some critical medicinal products in Norway. Because the pharmaceutical market and supply chains are global, good international cooperation is also needed. In particular, we work closely with the other Nordic countries and the EU to ensure access to medicines. The situation and preparedness in Norway have enabled us to assist our neighbouring country, Sweden, as they experienced an acute lack of a critical medicinal product for the treatment of covid-19 patients. Today there is no vaccine against covid-19. A large number of vaccine candidates are under development. We don't know today which of these might prove to be safe and effective. Based on lessons from the ebola epidemic, the government launched the establishment of CEPI together with several other countries in 2017. CEPI is a partnership of public, private and humanitarian organisations. The coalition shall finance and stimulate the development of vaccines against selected diseases. The Secretariat is located in Oslo. Norway has increased its contribution to CEPI following the outbreak of covid-19, and a number of other countries have done the same. Until large-scale production of vaccines against covid-19 is available, demand will go well beyond supply. As a small country, Norway is totally dependent on cooperating with other countries in the same situation. Norway will now participate in two new international initiatives on vaccines against covid-19. We're invited to join the Inclusive Vaccines Alliance. France, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands, supported by the European Commission, are behind the alliance, with the aim of supporting the development and production of covid-19 vaccines for both European countries and low-income countries. The alliance is therefore important both to provide vaccines for the inhabitants of Norway and to contribute to a fair global distribution. In addition, Norway will participate in Covax, a global initiative aimed at ensuring access to vaccines against covid-19 in all countries, irrespective of their ability to pay. The government will work for good coordination and cooperation between the two different tracks to strengthen work on fair global distribution and access to vaccines. Fair distribution is a long-term issue of government. Norway helped to establish both the CEPI and the GAVI vaccine alliance and, since the covid-19 outbreak, has been actively working internationally to provide increased funding for the work of CEPI on a corona vaccine. A global crisis requires global management and international cooperation. It is necessary that the World Health Organisation manages to develop knowledge about the virus and the measures needed to control the disease. The government has been clear on our support for the World Health Organisation, and we have actively sought international solutions in crisis management both regionally and globally. The Covid-19 pandemic has shown how dependent Norway is on cooperation with the EU. Among other things, through the EU’s joint procurement mechanisms and the EU’s crisis support instrument, the EU is an important partner. The government has actively participated in EU Health and Justice Ministerial Meetings on the Corona situation. In addition, Norwegian participation in the EU Health Safety Committee, HSC, and the European Agency for Disease Control, ECDC, has been important in our national crisis management. Nordic cooperation has also been important in this crisis. Through close contact between Nordic Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Health and Justice, we have exchanged useful experience and assisted each other with advice, despite the fact that we have chosen a slightly different approach. International cooperation is also about solidarity. Therefore, the government stressed the ability to respond to the EU’s early appeal to assist the most severely affected countries. For three weeks in our work a Norwegian health team side by side with Italian colleagues in intensive departments in Bergamo, northern Italy, which was then one of the most severely affected areas in the world. For the same reason, I have agreed to be involved in leading the international crisis response through the work of the European Commission to provide sufficient funding for the development of a vaccine. The Coronapandemic has made it clear that we need more international solidarity and multilateral cooperation, not less. No country can solve this crisis alone. Therefore, it has been important for Norway to actively support the UN crisis response. Norway has taken the initiative to set up a new United Nations Multi-Party Fund to address the consequences of the crisis. The Fund is in addition to supporting the UN Global Humanitarian Response Plan. Norway has paid a first contribution of 150 million. take political leadership to mobilise international support for the Fund. So the first wave of the pandemic is to say over in Norway. It is now assumed to be just a few hundred infected in the country. Apart from a limited increase in the number of cases detected in some places, there is so far no sign of new national flare-up. But the virus is as contagious and disease-creating as before, and the population is practically as immune as before. It is estimated that only about 1 pst. the population of Norway has been infected. In many municipalities there are no confirmed cases. Our aim is therefore to keep the spread of infection down until a vaccine or effective treatment is in place. Infection in large congregations appears to be an important driving force for the covid-19 pandemic and can explain why the epidemic is shooting at some places. So we are particularly concerned about infection in places where many meet. It is therefore still important to limit the size of events, and the rule of one metre's distance must be maintained. Since there are now few possible sources of infection in the country, we do not expect a rapid, general increase in the number of people infected. However, it is a challenge that the disease can spread rather hidden – between people with few or only mild symptoms – and it can happen for several weeks before some cases of severe disease occur. We are also affected by developments in our neighbouring countries. Europe is opening up. We don't yet know how it will affect the spread of the virus. It is important to detect local outbreaks and major trends as early as possible. Good monitoring systems to closely monitor developments are necessary. Both municipalities and national health authorities play an important role here. The government will maintain the hospital preparedness to deal with a new wave of infected people. The system for testing and tracing infected persons has been scaled up and shall be further prepared. If we experience a new spread, this will become even more important in order to maintain control without having to reintroduce the most interventional measures. The Public Health Institute has stopped collecting data through the stoppage app following the notification from the Data Protection Authority of the temporary prohibition of processing of personal data. FHI continues to work to ensure that the app can be used again, in line with the Stortinget decision. It can provide a good knowledge of the spread of the virus in the population and contribute significantly to the detection of infection. This is therefore important for our preparedness and the ability to cope without the most interventional measures in the event of a possible new outbreak. In order to be as prepared as possible, the government has drawn up a contingency plan with vector measures that can be implemented, locally or nationally, by increasing the spread of infection. The aim is to be prepared to implement adequate measures to prevent infection, but also to avoid measures where we now have better knowledge that costs are high and the effectiveness of infectious diseases is low. Targeted local measures could contribute more than national measures to the maintenance of activities by businesses. If a local infection situation occurs that has only consequences in one municipality, it is the municipality which, according to the infectious disease law, takes decisions and implements infectious diseases control measures. Each municipality is responsible for the anchoring of decisions in national management. If local infection affects several municipalities in a region, it is recommended that municipalities coordinate emergency plans to ensure that the measures for the protection of the infection constitute an overall response. In the case of specific intervention measures, the measures shall be coordinated nationally. We believe that we are well prepared for different scenarios, and we have planned for situations with a lot of infection in society. In parallel with the gradual reliefs in the infectious diseases control measures, the activity of the Norwegian economy has taken a part. Although the unemployment rate is still high, there have already been 130,000 fewer unemployed since the peak in April. The Government believes that the main task of economic policy now is to facilitate the continuation of positive developments. On 29 May, the government presented a strategy for the economic measures for Phase 3 – Norway’s way out of the crisis. At this stage, we have to get the wheels of the Norwegian economy going well again, while the infection must not come out of control. Work on the strategy has been based on advice from experts and on input from organisations and businesses. The Government, in its proposal to the Stortinget, has made proposals for financial measures to: get people back to work ensure more legs to stand on creating a greener future increase competence by implementing the Education Commitment 2020 include more These measures have been well adapted to the needs and are mostly temporary measures to be reversed as the economic situation improves. I also refer to the debate on these issues later today. I'm sure it'll be comprehensive and good. It has been right and necessary to spend a lot of money to avoid an even greater crisis with multiple bankruptcies, more unemployed and greater losses for businesses and individuals. Uncertainty about further development is high, especially this year and until next year. We still know little about the virus development in the future and whether we're getting new waves of infection. It depends not only on ourselves but also on developments in other countries. And we still don't know how hard the fall in the oil price and a weakened world economy will hit us in the long run. The reduction in unemployment has been very rapid in recent years. We must be prepared for a slowdown in the future. The number of bankruptcies so far has been moderate, but may increase. We also don't know if we're going back to the old normal, or whether the pandemic will set long-term tracks that change what we think is normal. Much depends on whether we find a vaccine and on how long strict infectious measures must be maintained, not only in Norway but also internationally. But we are following closely and will adapt economic policy – even with new measures if needed. Several schemes, including the compensation scheme for large-scale enterprises and the new support scheme for taking leave of employment, are scheduled to last August. The government will assess the need for any new arrangements beyond the autumn in dialogue with employees’ and employers’ organisations until August. Good cooperation with the social partners will be important in the future. I would like to thank Storting's ability and willingness to deal quickly with matters in the time we have left behind. Although of course there have been disagreements, I have felt that our common desire has been to do the best for all who live in Norway, and that it has shaped the cooperation. I hope for continued good cooperation also in the future. The government has planned for the summer in terms of the management of infection. We want to keep control and we're still going to move forward gradually. In the future, testing, isolation and tracking will be important to maintain control. We're building a step-by-step opening of the frontier and we're prepared to quickly shut down new outbreaks locally. At the same time, the situation is unpredictable. Acute situations may arise in other areas of society that need to be resolved quickly. The government will therefore have a high level of preparedness during the summer. I ask that Stortinget also have such a readiness, if there are issues that require prompt treatment. We have had and will still have a very difficult situation due to covid-19. The situation in the world is not clear. We have to open up as much as we can, but without losing control, and turn around in time if the situation gets worse. We have to continue the hard work that we've started, and get the business and the economy going again. When the Minister of Health briefed the Stortinget on 10 March, there were 100 000 confirmed infected in the world. Today, more than 8 million have been confirmed infected, and almost 450,000 have been registered dead. There's a lot of darkness, and the spread of infection in the world is still growing. In Norway, 244 people have disappeared as a result of covid-19. Compared to many other countries, it is a low number. We're going to show humility in the meeting with other countries that are much harder hit. The 244 Northmen who have gone away are also deeply missing. Several of them died without their closest around them, in a way that we do not associate with a worthy end of life. It emphasizes the seriousness of the situation. The pandemic continues to cause serious illness and to kill. It is our joint responsibility to contribute to preventing it, in solidarity with those who are hardest hit by the disease, our elderly and those who have other diseases that make them vulnerable. We have prepared as best we can in summer and autumn. We are prepared to act quickly again if it becomes necessary. My last call today is that we all remember the seriousness, even when we are going to enjoy the sun and summer and have a vacation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e527	The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open up for a short comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e532	Norway has passed the test. We got late. There was a shortage of standby. This is to be evaluated, but I will recognise the Prime Minister and the government's efforts from mid-March. I would like to thank you for the cooperation that has been. I believe that Norwegian policy has emerged from its strength in the handling of the Korona crisis. Most importantly, it is today, I think, to thank those out there in our working life – the everyday heroes, as we call them – who have stood in the front line against infection in an unwieldy situation with a risk to their own life and health: health workers, cleaning workers, teachers, shopkeepers, those who transport us, a lot of people. But government and big business have worked well together, and I thank the Prime Minister for this thorough presentation. We're having a debate on the economic issues later today, so I'm going to deal most with the health issues. First, as the Prime Minister, I would like to say that we are not finished with covid-19. Covid-19 is barely done with us. It's worth remembering now, where the mood of the people is that we're on our way out of something. In these hot summer fields, we can walk around and observe that there's a change going on. It's related to it, but it can also be a concern about what can happen if it infects. My first point, while congratulating Norway on having a seat in the Security Council, is to say to the Prime Minister: this should be a matter for Norway to address in the UN Security Council, for the world needs much better preparedness to prevent outbreaks – control in case of outbreaks and reinforced preparedness. It's a security issue. Aids came on the Security Council's agenda at last, under the direction of Kofi Annan. Now we have to join in and put this question on the agenda, because it can happen again. When this happens, it's more serious than if a financial giant on Wall Street goes over the edge. We've now seen that. My second point is: in the light of this statement, and I want the Prime Minister to confirm it, I assume that she is confident that we now have the necessary infection protection equipment for those in the front line – in the hospitals, in the municipalities. I assume that she is confident that we have enough testing capacity – I notice that we will now test less than it was announced when it was about 100,000 a week – and that we have enough capacity for tracking. This is the main strategy of control, and it will be reassuring for Stortinget to hear that the Prime Minister confirms that this is the case. I'm worried, and I feel that the Prime Minister shares that commitment, for those who have lost treatment because our health care system has been focused on the corona. 320,000 have lost treatment they had been waiting for. 30 pst. fewer cancer patients have been treated. There are 1,600 fewer days spent in mental health. It is essential that these now receive follow-up and help. There are a wide range of vulnerable groups that have lost income as a result of what has happened. Absence of Nav’s payment of daily subsistence allowance, compensation, etc. –it is absolutely essential to get on the level with. But let me take a concrete problem and challenge the Prime Minister on it. Several people who have been treated in a hospital will now end the period they are entitled to sickness benefit, 52 weeks, without having been treated, even if it was planned. Then they go to work clearance, which provides far lower compensation than sickness benefits, and they are waiting for that treatment. With over 300,000 who have been treated, it will be a long time before that queue is gone. The question then is: is it right that those who were to be treated when the corona shut down should now experience a reduction in their income, as they experience here? There are a number of such vulnerable groups. I believe it is important that the government and the authorities follow it up and assess the possibilities for compensation. Finally, the government has chosen a model where they listen to the advice of the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate, but are themselves at the forefront of communication and handling. I think that's the right choice. It is important that the policy is at the forefront. I think Norway is wise to do more as it has done in Denmark — that it is a political communication. At the same time, we have little involvement of this house in the individual decisions taken. I would encourage the government to have close contact with Stortingen in the continuation. I also want to say that when questions are asked from the Stortinget and from the political opposition around elections that have been taken, listen to it! We are ombudsmen and wives of people asking questions, and sometimes you get the impression that it's almost like banning in the church if you challenge the decisions that have been made. Now we have to deal with this crisis with the emphasis on social justice, that no one stays alone and becomes vulnerable, that we get people in work and in activity. From the Labour Party, we will do everything we can to help us continue to get out of the crisis successfully, and that we are prepared to deal with it if it goes back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e555	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a good account with a broad review of what has happened to the coronary apathy since the previous statement on 10 March. This is the most serious crisis Norway has experienced since World War II, and governments and magnification have had to make major and in-depth decisions on ongoing issues, without normal proceedings. I think the government has passed the test, and I also think we in Stortinget have passed the test. During some hectic days in March, everything was turned upside down. Society was shut down, hundreds of thousands of people were perpetrated, the infection spread in the population, and the uncertainty increased. Not least, the Norwegian population has passed the test. Neighbors have set up for each other, grandparents have communicated with grandchildren over Teams and telephones, people have washed hands and kept distance. Norway has shown that we are able to move in the same direction in difficult times. It is a great strength for the country that cohesion is so great, even if we are to keep a distance. Such a crisis raises many questions that need quick answers. The most interventional measures have been laid down by law on infectious diseases. These were homes that were already there, and made it possible to react quickly. Under the terms of the IPD Act, health authorities and the government have, among other things, laid down rules on quarantine and isolation, the closure of schools, the prohibition of special events and establishments, the expulsion of non-residents without a residence permit and the prohibition of residence on recreational property outside their own municipality. However, a number of laws were lacking the necessary regulatory homes, and when the Storting could adopt the Korona Act, the government was also given the opportunity to lay down regulations. A total of 60 regulations have been laid down on the basis of that type of legislation. On 27 May we removed the Korona Act, and the regulations are now largely replaced by temporary legal regulation. The health service in Norway has been tested extensively, and there is every reason to extend a warm thanks to the many thousands of employees who have stood by day and night to deal with the crisis. Fortunately, Norway has few deaths, and our health workers have much of the credit for it. Most of us know someone who's been sick, and most of us know someone who's been granted a permit. For this reason, the work in Stortinget has also taken place with the greatest seriousness. How can we best help? How can we safeguard jobs while safeguarding people’s health? I think the government has clearly shown this balance and has a broad support for the measures taken, both in the people and here in the Grand Duchy. On 29 May, the government presented a strategy for the economic measures for Phase 3 — Norway’s way out of the crisis. We are going to deal with this later today. Now we have to get the wheels going again in the Norwegian economy, while the infection does not come out of control. There are five main strategies to get out of the crisis: get people back to work ensure more legs to stand on creating a green future enhancing competence through the implementation of the education and training promise 2020; include more These strategies will be discussed later today, but there is reason to believe that one will have broad support for them as well. Thank you to the Prime Minister and Government, and thank you to the Norwegian people who set up. The crisis is not over, we still have to follow the infectious diseases codes. We hope for a nice summer with no increase in infection, we hope for a vaccine, and we hope for a more normal life afterwards. 0
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e592	First, let me thank the Prime Minister for a statement summarizing all the steps that have been taken since this outbreak hit Norway. Let me also thank the government for the job they have done over these weeks and months. There is no doubt that this has been extremely demanding for the government, and I believe that both the Storting and the Norwegian people recognise the job that the government has done. But it is also right in this round in Stortinget, to thank all those who have been on the extra side of the Norwegian community. Because many people have made a significant effort to get the best out of this situation as quickly as possible. The Norwegian people have shown considerable self-discipline and good spirit over these months. Many have paid a high price. A lot of people have lost their jobs. Many people are afraid that life’s work, the family business, will end as a result of the intervention. Many of our elderly people have been isolated for several months, have not had close contact with relatives. Many have even experienced not having to say good-bye when life has ebbed out. And many thousands have been subjected to necessary treatment in the country’s hospital. That is why I am very pleased that, in the context of the treatment of both Action Package 3 and the revised budget, we have put in place a strong strengthening of efforts for the elderly of the country, but not least a strong strengthening of the capacity to treat sick people in Norway. Yes, there has been a need for comprehensive crisis response. Many of them have been greatly reinforced by the work that has been done here in Stortinget. But the Government's infectious disease prevention board and measures now seem to be, at least as experienced as, more inconsistent and partly confusing. And we see that the discipline and the spirit of virtue are in the process of decreasing sharply. I believe that the outcome came in the wake of the great demonstration that we saw in Oslo a short time ago, where also a government secretary was present. We are now in a situation where we see beaches and dining areas being filled up, but the Animal Park is therefore refused to hold Sabeltan performances despite the fact that they have rigged a very good setup to deal with this in line with the rules on infectious diseases. Travel policy is perceived by many as difficult to understand. For example, both Germans and Nordics can travel to Denmark, but Germans are not allowed to travel to Norway, despite the fact that there are very low levels of infection and mortality in line with Finland, which is open to the Nordics. Housing fairs were first informed that they could open up and prepare for it. So the government tightened in. But Ikea and Maxbo may have been open. And it's too many hard to see the big difference between these. I think that the government is wise to think through the infectious diseases and the advice they actually give, once again, simply because if we continue to see a situation where respect for the measures decreases, where people's self-discipline and spirit of good will diminish further, it could be challenging in relation to the overall strategy that I fully agree with, namely to keep the infection down. In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to wish both the Prime Minister and the rest of the government a good summer and hope that the labour pressure will slow down. I also think the members of the government need to rest a little after the weeks and months that are behind us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e609	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. It's been challenging months for a lot of people. I think many have known about grief, loneliness and uncertainty. And it's in its place to thank all those who have taken the heaviest roofs. It's those who are employed in health care, those who have been, or are, permitted, all those who have had to live their lives differently from the known and accustomed. The political parties in this room have joined forces on many of the road choices, both in terms of the framework around what has happened, the amendment of laws and other decisions that have required cooperation. It is also a recognition to the President that throughout this time the Stortinget has shown that one has been capable of meeting and making rapid decisions when needed. I think we can safely say that the Storting is prepared to meet at short notice at any time throughout the summer. The strength of the size proved to be not least when dealing with the first economic crisis package. It was a weak suggestion from the government, but a total expansion made a strong bet possible. It is the profits of the parties that the crisis package came out as well as it did. After two months of broad cooperation on economic crisis packages in Stortinget, however, the government said thank you and goodbye to that kind of cooperation. Then the Right Party and the Advance Party were back in party politics and preparing for election. Both the revised national budget and the third crisis package have an impact on it. What we are dealing with later today is stamped by the government parties and by the supporting parties. Now it is the big ones, and not the small ones, that are given priority. The public sector is now becoming down-prioritized. We are in the lucky situation in Norway that we can slowly, but surely reopen society. The way it happens, will be important to all of us. The centre party believes this is a sign of concern. In some cases, the government has shown little flexibility in determining the rules. At the same time, a situation in which large numbers of people are gradually being gathered in outpatient settings and in demonstrations in areas of the country with a lot of infection is accepted. It's worrying. The centre party has previously pointed to the possibility of geographical differentiation in schools and kindergartens, because we have to recognise that we have a very different infectious situation in different parts of the country. Now we see a distinction that is also hard to understand in terms of culture and sport. Top football and training centres are allowed to open, while wide football, children's football, paraid and other sports must wait until 1 September. And it looks improperly stiff and odd. That a football ball at Røros, where there has not been or is no infection at all, cannot be allowed to play the game, while the training centres in Oslo are filled with people, is completely incomprehensible. And in a situation where we can risk local outbreaks more than a new wave of infection, there needs to be more flexibility and differentiation in such a situation. The type of differentiation that the government does not choose to do in Norway has been implemented by the government in relation to our relationship with other countries. And I think that is a wise strategy. I also think it is a wise strategy that we will now have a step-by-step opening to other countries, based on objective criteria. I think that's necessary because the import of infection will still be perhaps one of the greatest risks for the eradication of the epidemic. Let me also mention that the Center Party is very positive about what Norway and the government are doing about the vaccine work. It is a long time before everything will feel normal in Norway. Actually, we're not going back to a normal situation until we have a vaccine. That is why I would like to be very grateful for the work done both in the international vaccine alliance and through Covax. I think it is very important that Norway, as a capital state, is actively contributing in those areas. The forward situation is uncertain. We must be prepared for new outbreaks. At the same time, we need to manage the situation in Norway in a way that is understandable to all. As far as the economic situation is concerned, the Central Party is deeply concerned, but we will come back to that in the debate on the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e634	I would also like to thank you for the statement. It's an opportunity to look back and look forward. There will be a need to look at how the Storting can play an active role in the further fight against the pandemic, and to review, evaluate and discuss the way Norway was prepared, and how the crisis is managed. It concerns the discussion on closure and reopening, of course, but also the question of why we were not better prepared in areas such as infectious diseases and medicines, and why it has proved difficult in some areas to set up a good enough social safety net quickly enough – which many people have been waiting for for for a very long time on the question of wage compensation, and on which there was a great contrast between the government's action and creativity when it comes to putting in place temporary arrangements for businesses, and the lack of a rapid emergency solution for those who were outsourced. I would like to inform you that we see a clear need for the Storting to start discussions and dealing with these questions. It would then be natural to include this statement as a basis for it. There is reason to thank the government for its efforts. Many in all of Norway are to be thanked for having come through the first phase in a much better way than many feared, not least those who have been in the first line of health care, and many of the professional groups for which perhaps more have got their eyes up have a crucial role in our society and should be appreciated much more: cleaners, transport workers, shopkeepers, etc. There is also reason, when we are going to sum up the spring, to remember that the Storting had to take control at crucial times in order to bring about a powerful and social crisis package in the first rounds of the negotiations on how to meet the economic crisis, and to ensure that through broad cooperation between all parties here in the Stortinget, we were given a corona law that was acceptable and adapted both to the need to act quickly and – at the same time – to the need for democratic and good control. We're going to discuss the economic crisis and our answers to it later today, so I'm going to leave it in this round, but one of the things that the Prime Minister was about, and that there's now a need to look very carefully, is how we're going to resume the retarded state of health. The health service is not in normal operation yet. We have to get the funds to deal with the aftermath. What we know is that it can take a very long time, and that's why one of the things we want answers to, and we haven't got a response yet, about the money that has been allocated to the hospitals so far, is also assumed by the government to be enough for the first phase of taking back the retarded, or not. It is essential that hospitals receive the necessary resources. Finally, we look forward to discussing the Code of Disease Protection for the autumn. I believe that this spring has shown us that we have an infectious disease law that enables us to act quickly and is well adapted to acute crises, but which is less adapted to a long-term crisis like the one we are now facing. The government has very broad powers, but dealing with a long-term crisis of this kind also requires transparency, debate and broad political anchoring in a way that these powers are not adapted. That is why we have proposed to the Storting that the law on infectious diseases should be amended in such a way that the government will retain the authority to act quickly if, for example, it does. It should be necessary to close some parts of society again, but that these measures must be sent immediately to the size of the population for treatment. It will give us another kind of openness and broad anchoring, which will make us better equipped to meet what may have to come of new phases in the coronary crisis. I would like to take this opportunity to encourage the various parties to use the summer holiday to evaluate that proposal in depth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e647	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a thorough, open and humble orientation. No one can at this point in the pandemic be sure of what has been right to do, and what will be right in the future. The care of health and life must weigh more heavily. By getting infected in Norway, getting serious, and by being able to avoid a problem of capacity in hospitals, the government and health authorities have generally made wise decisions — and in a situation where there is no final phase of what is best to take when. The Prime Minister was also involved in the economic side of the crisis. Even if we still have to be honest enough to admit that we have hardly met all those who have been financially, well enough, there is little doubt that we should, in a large way, praise ourselves for being in one of the richest countries in the world, where the community, the state, is able to settle with heavy, targeted measures to compensate for loss of income. Fortunately, together, the Storting and the Government have also seen a combination of climate requirements and economic measures that not only ensure that all the exciting things that happen in business as regards green growth and green technology development do not stop, but also strengthen it. Nor, of course, is it in a crisis situation. Of course, I agree entirely with the Prime Minister: Just as the government is now fully prepared for the development of infection, so the majority and the government must be constantly receptive through the summer to recordings from companies, organisations and others that still fall within the scope of different schemes, in order to improve or extend the compensation measures. Many people out there are very grateful when the Storting has today a temporary summary of the crisis management: first-line add-ons, those who have taken care of and care for those who have been infected and sick, those who work in the critical profession, in the health care system, in the hub, shop add-ons, drivers, kindergarten add-ons, teachers, all entrepreneurs, business owners, freelancers, artists, who were literally talking about the income base, and all those who are now lir under the capacity problems of Nav, to name someone. Of those who thank you, it is easy to forget the people who may have the most responsible, exposed roles and functions in the crisis management: the Prime Minister and, in particular, the state councils we see almost every day at the Korona press conference – the Minister of Health, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Industry – and, of course, everyone in the Institute of Public Health and the Directorate of Health. I started my post by giving the Prime Minister a good name for her humble approach and the government has to deal with the crisis. In one field, however, there is an exception confirming the rule: the pathogen. When he was introduced, it was not as easy to trace the same humble hold that concerned privacy. When the Data Protection Authority finally found it necessary to intervene and the Stortinget has now provided clear guidance for the app when he is relaunched, I expect that this exception is also history. In times of crisis, we really get to test democracy, and I allow myself from my stand as a parliamentary leader in a government party with close contact with the government, as a member of the special corona committee together with the prime minister and the other parliamentary leaders, and from the way in which the Finance Committee and the rest of the Stortingen have negotiated this spring, to conclude that Norwegian democracy has passed the test. Perhaps the most important quality of our democracy is the fundamental, invaluable trust between the institutions and the parties – a trust that really comes to its right when it comes to it, a quality that we never have to take for granted, and that we all have to do what we can to punish and process.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e662	I would also like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for a thorough and good presentation. This spring we've been challenged as societies, and we've been challenged as individuals. Yes, we have experienced the most interventional measures in Norway in peacetime. The measures were taken to reduce the spread of the corona virus and to allow time to build up sufficient capacity in the healthcare system. In this crisis, people have set themselves up for each other. Human dignity has been at the center of this spring. Life and health have been the most important. Life and health have been a priority. Individuals have shown concern for one another. Yes, we have been in a great common national effort. It's worth a trust society. Norway is a trust society. We trust institutions, we trust organizations, and we trust each other. Yes, we are a society of high social capital. The civil society in Norway has a strong capacity to develop trusting relationships between citizens and thus strengthen the community’s capacity to solve common problems and challenges. As politicians, we have a great responsibility to manage the trust that the voters have given us. We have to take responsibility in trying times. That responsibility has been taken by the government, and the Stortinget has provided the necessary proper parliamentary control. Extensive measures taken by the government have been necessary. They've had a good effect on the spread of infection. The number of sick people has fallen, the spread of infection is significantly reduced, and we have been able to switch to healthcare. I will give tribute to the government and not least to the head of the government, Prime Minister Erna Solberg, for the way this is done. I believe afterwards will show that this government led the country safely through this phase, and that the measures that were taken helped to save lives and strengthen the basis for having a robust and inclusive welfare society in the post-crisis period. Now it's about getting the wheels started again. We need to secure jobs, we need to raise value creation, and we need to make sure that unemployment doesn't get stuck at a high level. The fight against unemployment takes place, among other things: that young people are not allowed to put their lives on hold. Young people may be at risk of staying outside, whether they are apprentices who are not allowed to complete what they have started, or vulnerable groups who are standing at the back of the queue. Therefore, value creation and the development of jobs are at the heart of the future. How deep the decline will be, and how long it will last, we don't know today. The major international turmoil is also of great importance for the development of the Norwegian economy. But Norway is in a lucky position. We have resources and political will to take action. On Wednesday 18 March, the Prime Minister spoke to the Norwegian people about the trust society. She said, ‘This has given our country a greater advantage than any weapon, and more valuable than any oil fund: that is, we trust each other.’ That's very well said. Trust in each other, the virtue of vulnerable groups, the power of value creation and development of jobs, life and health first, inclusion in all phases of life, young and old, people with disabilities, people with mental challenges or the many who struggle with loneliness – in times of crisis, it is particularly important to pursue a policy that puts the individual at the centre of human dignity. Trust society is precisely based on this, that we all stand for each other when needed – civil society, with all its organisations, teams and associations that mean so much to all of us, the small communities that provide health, joy and well-being. Market forces do not solve the problems, nor does the state alone. It's people who solve the problems because we trust each other. Is there something we've seen this spring, it's how important it is to center human dignity. We have no life to lose. Everyone must feel valued, even when there is a crisis – yes, especially then. When life and health are put first, when vulnerable groups are protected, when children and young people get their own crisis package, when the government puts man first, and life counts more than crowns and ears, then we take care of human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e688	First, thank you to the Prime Minister for a wise presentation and an opportunity for all of us to reflect on the spring and sum up a little before we go into the summer. I would also like to thank you for our cooperation. I also believe, as many people here have said, that our democracy, our services and our trust have been put to the test. We thought Norway was a society of high trust, and it also turned out to be a society of high trust. This has meant that the authorities with the government at the head have been able to do great intervention in a short time while we have managed to keep calm. We've managed to keep a calm here in the house, on the Stortinget, but also out among the people most, and that's perhaps the most basic, which we'll be concerned with taking care of. No matter what kind of challenges we face, maintaining such trust is one of the most important things we have to take forward. In it lies everything from having a good public debate, with respect, a well-organised working life, which makes you trust in the workplace and feel a sense of security, to having a trust between teacher and student, and that you can also make changes there in a short time, without children becoming nervous. With regard to us and me as a single woman group, I have also been tested, and it has been hectic and difficult to hang in our straps. But I just want to say that the Greens feel that as a small party on the Stortinget we have been listened to. I would particularly like to highlight the cooperation we have had in the Corona Committee in the work on the Korona Laws, the Exemption Laws, and in the more informal Corona Committee, where we have had a regular dialogue with the government. I have experienced it as my role both in that selection, in the Committee, and also in the Financial Committee to ask questions that others do not ask, and I have experienced having been listened to and being able to have an influence even as 1 representative of 169. I would like to thank you for that. I believe spring here has also shown us that the crisis is inconclusive. There are some of the main challenges of crises no matter what form they are in, and it is important to know that we are self-sufficient in the most important things for life and health. It's about medicine and medical devices, but it's also about food, like our food security. To ensure that we have food production on Norwegian resources, that we take care of our food soil – we need to have that security at the bottom, so that we can deal with the situation no matter what kind of crisis it is, and know that we are self-sufficient in everything, most importantly. It also states that we have learned in ours that crises can come at the same time. Norway is an economy that is very dependent on the oil price, and in the spring we really got two crises at the same time, the coronary crisis and a violent fall in the oil price. It makes us vulnerable as an economy, but it's a reminder that it can happen next time too. I believe that with increasing climate change, we need to be prepared for even more testing of cooperation between countries, if we have strong climate change with increased migration and perhaps more unstable democracies in several places in a situation where we have a crisis at the same time, which can be a pandemic next time too, or something quite different. It's something I hope the government will take with us from the spring, that when we learn from our management of a pandemic crisis, we also try to think about whether we have the law we need, the institutions we need, and whether this also applies to other types of crises. So it is crisis management at large, and I would of course encourage us to look closely at whether we are well prepared also for increasing climate change and the extreme weather that we see coming more frequently and more frequently. We're lucky, I brought that from spring. We already knew that, but it's been a reminder. We're a strong economy, we're well-organized, high trust, but we also have an oil fund. I don't think anyone else has mentioned that from this pulpit, and I will do that, that it gives us as governments and also the inhabitants an incredible, unique back coverage and social security. That's why we have to learn from it, that it's important how we manage the oil fund, but also make sure that we continue to use the economic space in a sustainable way. So finally, I just want to thank the Prime Minister for also addressing this with international cooperation. It concerns infectious diseases and access to vaccines, but also how to advise economies with much smaller muscles to take action on how to deal with such serious infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e706	Let there be no doubt: Erna Solberg and her government will put all the means to fair crisis policy in reverse. Now more than 300,000 people are unemployed – in whole or in part. That is why Red presented a crisis programme to ensure the income, work and well-being of all — the way out of the coronary crisis must go to a more fair and short-lived society, where we are upgrading societal preparedness. The Solberg government stands for the opposite. They cut the wealth tax for them at the top and send the bill for the crisis to ordinary people, and have a naive belief that the crisis will be resolved by free trade and market forces. In March, the majority of the population increased the daily allowance for all those who became unemployed, especially the low-paid and the apprentices. But the government will reverse all the improvements from the fall to the fall, with high unemployment and long before the crisis is over, and will take ten days of full pay away from anyone who is on leave. This they will knock through today, which a majority of this privileged assembly is obediently behind. After today's meeting, Stortinget takes a summer vacation. Among those who have been unemployed and those who are, many in the summer attend meetings without the money they are entitled to, in an account. They are all at risk of getting even less money next summer, because the holiday supplement on the daily allowance was removed by Erna Solberg's government in 2015. But then it's still possible to do something about this. Firstly, today the Stortinget deals with a Red proposal for an urgent payment to the unemployed who have not yet received the money they are entitled to. The Labour Party was opposed to the proposal in the Committee but has now turned around and supported an advance mechanism. I hope that the Central Party and the Advance Party will follow up what they said to the media earlier this week, so that the majority here in the Chamber will ensure that the unemployed will not go into the summer with zero dollars in the account. Secondly, Red promotes a proposal to secure future holiday pay for those who are now unemployed. That's how Stortinget can grab hold of it. It's just on political will. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what would she say to all the unemployed who now meet in the summer, to those who have not received the money they are entitled to, or who have not worked out the holiday money this spring because the government of Erna Solberg has removed the holiday supplement from the daily allowance? I think people expect a clear answer to that. The unemployed lose much of their income, but everyone sitting here still earns about a million per year. If we were to take seriously everything that is said to contribute to the effort, it would be right that not only the unemployed took the noise. Therefore, Red proposes that we cut the political wages for ourselves on the Stortinget and for the Councils of State by 20 p.m. When the unemployed tolerate cut, everyone in this room will tolerate the same thing, we believe. The Korona crisis is a systemic crisis triggered by a global health crisis, a pandemic. When the crisis hit us, there was a risk of a shortage of both drugs and infectious diseases equipment. Missing equipment put both nursing and staff at risk. Many have been afraid, sacrificed a lot, some have also lost their loved ones. The crisis has shown us that our welfare services are socially critical but also vulnerable. They haven't been rigged to tackle a pandemic. For the government, so-called efficiency improvement has been the most important, not to ensure preparedness. Now we have to settle that. The policy response to this can not only be small adjustments – strengthening well-being will make our society more robust in the face of future crises. Those who work part-time and want to do so must be offered full-time work – permanent employees are also well protected. The first wave of pandemic in Norway is almost over and the risk of spread is moderate, but a new wave needs to be prepared, writes FHI in its latest risk report. Such preparation must mean more self-storage and a manning lift in well-being. We need to strengthen the community to strengthen preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e737	Let me start by thanking you for the comments and in and of the nice messages to the government about much of what we have done. So there were some questions that came up on some themes. Let me first start with the question of test capacity, as Jonas Gahr Støre thought we had adjusted down. No, 1.5 pst. So readiness is 100,000 a week. So it'll be over the summer. And then we have an ambition of up to 5 pst. That's 300,000 a week, that's what we have to have as a capacity if it's really a major outbreak of infection. The fact that there are 100,000 in the week over the summer is an assessment of the infection situation and also the fact that there are much less respiratory infections in the summer, i.e. fewer with symptoms that need to be tested. That's the seasonal variation. Therefore, we must have even greater capacity as we approach the flu period again, and when the coughing and the resining increase beyond the harvest. In the case of the vulnerable groups who have not received treatment: now we are following quite closely the whole development of health cows, and the priorities that have been set in this situation are that we must always take into account what are serious diseases, to treat serious diseases. Much of what has been put at risk is ex post controls and follow-up. So there must be a relatively small number that, because of lack of treatment, is still ill-reported now that they would have it, because there are largely controls and follow-up that are exposed. However, we should follow this up and see if there is a need for exceptional measures related to the group that has then been exposed — and which may be further delayed — to complete its treatment. So there's a lot of people who have commented on the changes we're about to make in the decoration. Let me start by saying, as I said in my statement, that the knowledge we're now sitting with is that large gatherings are one of the biggest infectious challenges. This means that the professional authorities, from being more likely to have more decoration in the past, have gone back to offering a lower rate of this kind of decoration, because this is where we see that there are large infections below. We also have to take that with us when we think about how we've organized it. We never closed the malls in Norway. After all, most other countries that put in place strong measures closed that kind of thing. We didn't. People didn't go to the mall that much, because they understood the seriousness of the matter. But it has of course been that these warehouses have been open all along, and there has been activity related to it. But there's a difference between that and big trade fairs and big construction fairs how many come from different places. Then there'll be more people, and it'll be more difficult to care for infectious diseases. Then it's not that all the infectious diseases are completely logical, because it's a priority when we open. If we were to follow everything logically, the children's football wasn't allowed to play games. We made an exception to the one-meter rule because we saw that for children it was less spread, and because we saw how important this was for children. But that in itself doesn't justify that we, because we're doing it for a priority group like children and young people, have to go the next step and also do it for the big football. Because that's the sum of these points, that's the sum of how we build down the unit rule. We're strict on the one meter rule in all contexts. All professionals in Norway must operate according to the one-meter rule, including open training centres, to enforce it. At the moment that we're opening up the latitude, and we're giving exceptions to the one-meter rule, yes, we're starting to give greater exceptions to what might be our base pillar now, that we shouldn't be too close to each other. And for me, it can't be an excuse that people don't do it on the beach, or that they're sitting too close together in private, because that's where I think there are limits to how much politicians should regulate. But we can't allow to break with the basics to legitimize the next one. Then I just have to say that our assessment is that it's almost easier to shut down than to open, precisely because one then gets all of these dilemmas one must have answers to. That's the same thing about opening the boundaries: the sum of how many are coming, of course, has a bearing on the potential for getting infected. That is why we are moving forward gradually. That is why we said on 7 May that we should go step by step, checked, and that we should consider each time. And that's why we're concerned that even now that we think we're getting this far, we keep doing it. I think that's quite crucial for us to have control, and I think it's a way to reward all the people who've been on the job so far, that we don't now lower our shoulders too easily and say that now we're going to give exemptions, but that we can stand up for these steps we're doing, and that we don't because we give exemptions for one group, we have to grant exemptions for all the other groups. We have to make a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e754	The debate on the distribution from the Prime Minister has thus ended. The President will propose that the statement by the Prime Minister on the status and further progress of the authorities' handling of covid-19 be recorded in the minutes. - It's a note. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2–4 is treated as a single agent. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e798	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be allocated as follows: 25 minutes, 25 minutes, right 25 minutes, 15 minutes, 15 minutes of the Progress Party, 15 minutes of the Centre Party, 10 minutes of the Socialist Left Party, 10 minutes of the Left Party, 10 minutes of the Christian People's Party, 10 minutes of the Environment Party, 10 minutes of the Green Party, 10 minutes of the Red Party and 10 minutes of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be given an opportunity to reply to replies from members of the Government and to four replies from the main speakers to the parties and the parties to their parliamentary leaders. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e809	Let me begin by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in dealing with the matters I am now going to talk about, but also a rather hectic collapse half-way so far. We are in the middle of the most serious shock of the Norwegian economy has experienced in the post-war period. Infective measures in Norway and the world, together with a sharp fall in oil prices, have hit us hard. This has a major impact on the Norwegian economy and jobs and, in particular, on both industries and geography. I am therefore pleased that we have come into port with the revised national budget and the government's plan to take Norway out of the corona crisis. The aim of the measures is to create more and include more. With the consensus we are now presenting, we continue to take the day-to-day back, and we point out a clear direction for the country out of the crisis. Norway shall forward. Freedom is going down, and people are going back to work. We're going to create more and include more. The measures of the Government’s proposals are largely determined following the negotiations. It's been very important to the Right. The way out of the crisis is to get people back to work, secure more legs to stand on, create a green future, bet on knowledge and skills and include more in the workplace. That's what we, from our side, got through in these negotiations. We agree to give 1.3 billion. extra kr for transportation. It will help to keep the activity up and connect the city and build closer together. We also agree to give health and care 1 billion. Extra kroner. This will benefit patients and vulnerable elderly people. It will be important for the Right in the future to contribute to the return of health cows. We will remove the excess in the compensation scheme for enterprises from May and August. I'm also pleased that we agree to give more money to combat recriminalism in Oslo. The challenges we faced before the coronary crisis have not disappeared. Getting out of the crisis, we're still going to solve the climate challenges. We have to get more people to work, and we have to make sure that the next generation has an even better starting point than we have. Yes, we actually have to make sure that if such a crisis should hit us again, then the next generation has to have a bigger toolbox than we were so lucky to have guarded when this happened, had. If we are to do this, we must ensure that more jobs are created in the private sector. Nine out of ten who are now on leave, work in the private sector. I hope that in such a situation we will not have a gallop ahead where we will resort to increased taxes and charges for Norwegian business. We need more people who want to invest in Norwegian jobs, not fewer. The taxes must then be kept down and market access maintained. In the consensus presented by the government parties and the Progress Party, we have a package that makes it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs and provides valuable replenishment of competence for Norwegian workers. In total, we hope that these measures can help create more and include more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e832	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e837	The representative, Kapur, talked about the meaning of work. So we know that the largest hotel chains in Norway already have alerted cancellations. Concert trust election Merethe Sutton in the Nordic Choice Hotels says that there is between being cancelled and keeping working right now. Unfortunately, this is also the case in a lot of other workplaces. And although there are some positive signs in the development of the Norwegian economy, it's still quite uncertain how the cottage gets too many. Is it ignition? Is there any basis for continuing to add? In connection with this, the Labour Party has proposed to expand the permitting regime so that people can keep their jobs. The right-hand side has said no to that. So my question is simply what Right will say to Merethe and all the other workers who are now concerned that they are going to be unemployed after the summer because the permit scheme is not extended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e844	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that Norwegian business, including travel, has been in an exceptional situation. They've been hit hard. Nor is there any doubt that very many of the challenges they have now seen in the last quarter will probably continue for several quarters to come. For this reason, the government parties in the negotiations with the Progress Party, first of all, have also underlined the need to pay particular attention to seasonal activities, which also constitute a number of hotels. In particular, with regard to the permitting mechanism, we have said that the government, together with the social partners and the business community, is being asked to follow through the summer, so that when one comes to the harvest, it should be reviewed and, if necessary, come back to the Stortinget if more measures are needed. But starting at that end now means we're wrong. We believe that it is now important to get the activity up and start the actions that get people back to work. But we have that buffer right over summer to review the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e851	The representative Kapur has four years of experience from the Municipal Committee of Stortinget. When he was in that committee, I expect him to talk a lot about local self-government, good municipal economy, that the values must remain in the communities, etc. – the very same thing that many of us are talking about. One of the most difficult issues in the negotiations between government parties and us in the Progress Party was how the distribution between state and coastal communities should be in terms of revenue from growth in the aquaculture sector. Where it has been important for us to say that it is the coastal communities that are going to be left with the majority of the income, it has been very important for the government parties to give the state the majority. Why has it been so important for the Right and the Government to transfer very large revenues from Nærøysund, Fröya, Smøla and other coastal municipalities and to the Ministry of Finance in Akersgata?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e858	There is no doubt that for the government it has been important that this industry has good framework conditions and growth potential. These include: therefore you didn't go on with any of the ideas that were around base rate taxation. And when we presented the new scheme, it was well received by the industry, also by many municipalities. Then there's no doubt that there's been a discussion afterwards about the distribution between the state and the municipality. There have been good negotiations with the Progress Party. We've thought it's important to create predictability, and you also have to have a model that doesn't start with just one particular year, but looks at it over time. I am pleased that we have reached the consensus we have, where the municipalities now get more than what they had put up to. This is also something many in the Right have been concerned about, and since the representative has taken a line on what has happened in the negotiations, I would like to congratulate him on the result, which we can all support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e867	When we adopted the compensation scheme in Stortinget, we pointed out in the Center Party that the proportion was too high. It was going to be at zero, not ten thousand. Fortunately, the government and the support party, the Progress Party, have come to an end. We pointed out one more thing, that it was fundamentally wrong to discriminate between those who owned their operating assets and those who leased and leased operating assets. I want to take an example, because I see Minister of Forest Bollestad sitting in the hall. A layer of timber, which owns four cutting machines, is given approx. 80000 kroner less than those leasing cutting machines. There is enormous discrimination organised through leasing and traditional depreciation. Why does the Right believe that those who own, depreciate and operate traditionally and conservatively should not receive the same help as those who lease? Now you have all the possibilities to make improvements, but the right has not done anything. What's the reason why it's better that people lease instead of owning?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e876	When the government introduced the compensation system, which we negotiated through a broad settlement, there were two things that were important. One was that you had to get there quickly with the help, and the other was that you shouldn't try to get a millimetre adjustment, which would delay it all. The government has participated in the recordings that have been made. In the context of this new and extended compensation scheme, a number of measures have been taken, including: in the case of seasonal holdings, the equity requirement, by which many have been occupied. And the government has been clear about one thing – that there will be a need to keep up with the situation. The system we now have is going to last August. We want to keep up with the market. If there is a need to make further adjustments, there will be room for it, but in this session we have prioritised those who were most likely to go bankrupt, and it was important to get them over the knee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e885	When it comes to something as central as the funding of well-being, the government has drawn after itself this whole spring, because well-being is in many ways municipal economy; it is in our municipalities that the well-being of our citizens is created. And had it been up to the government, the municipalities had not received much more than a few hundred million in sum of what has come from the government's crisis packages, it's on the Stortinget it's been spent on six billion. SEK in appropriations for the municipalities. At present, there is a great deal of uncertainty in the municipality of Norway as to whether they will be compensated for their increased expenditure and the lost tax revenue, and it is cut in the budgets, in our well-being around the municipality of Norway. So my question to the representative is how the government will create security in the municipalities so that they can maintain their welfare level, and whether the municipalities will be compensated for all increased expenses and lost tax revenue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e891	Thank you for the question. We've been crystal clear that municipalities don't have to fear that they won't be compensated for their additional costs and costs related to the coronary crisis. The Minister of Finance has said that, the Minister of Municipal Affairs has said it, I have said it in several rounds, and not least we now have a sample where KS itself sits with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Local Affairs, so that we can follow that development successfully and continuously and come back to the idea of what action can be taken. It is also true that every crisis package, every single penny in each crisis package, has gone to a municipality, even if it has not gone to the municipal register – to business and workers. Everyone lives in a municipality, and that money goes there. Then there's no doubt that it's not the municipalities that's going to permit ahead, it's the private business. But we have to follow closely, there is no doubt that we have security, because a secure municipality also creates security for its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e896	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e901	14 weeks ago, throughout Norway, people and businesses were hit hard and at the moment by the extensive disease prevention measures undertaken by the coronary apathy. Over the 14 weeks, people and businesses throughout Norway have contributed and taken responsibility. Then it is our responsibility as elected representatives of the United Kingdom to stand up for people and businesses throughout Norway and to ensure that the measures taken are taken, that they meet those in need, that they meet fairly, and that there is no one standing outside. The Committee has examined two representative proposals which are closely related to the consequences of the coronary apathy. One is a representative publisher linked to ensuring the payment of money to all those who have been outsourced through the crisis. The second is to amend and extend the compensation scheme for large-scale traders. Both proposals are closely linked to the work we did in the Storting and in the Financial Committee on the first weekend after the crisis. For those who have now waited a long time for compensation — well, if one had followed the government’s proposal, there would have been nothing to wait for, because there was no proposal for compensation of wages in the government’s proposal. And for self-employed and freelancers who had to wait a long time for income protection – well, if one had followed the government’s proposal, they would not have waited, because there had been nothing to wait for. There was no arrangement on the part of the government, but the Stortinget had to provide a proper income insurance for those affected by the coronary apathy – both workers and self-employed workers. In the government’s proposal, there was a proposal to reduce the employer’s period of leave from 15 to 2 days. We supported that in order to relieving companies that were in an acute, serious situation, but at the same time it would be too brutal to the workers if one from day 3, i.e. where one earlier that week didn't suppose that one could come in a situation where one was being permated and suddenly from day 3 down to 62.4 p.m. of former wages and salaries within 3G. This means, for example, that an engineer who was on leave and who earns 750,000 kroner, from day 3 would get more than half his salary. Therefore, it was absolutely essential that the Storting should make a quick decision. But there was one more thing that was important in that regard. It was quite right to reduce the cost to businesses of leave, but the government had not done so, at the same time, to reduce the cost to businesses of those who were still in work, but who became ill or had sick kids. If one hadn't made sure to clean it up, there would have been a lot of pressure in the direction that the companies would have permitted for security reasons people who were so in danger of getting sick, or for example. single-parents who have many days of care for their own children. It's been a long time, and a lot of people are still waiting for payoffs from Nav. Fortunately, payments have recently begun to be made through compensation of pay. When we gave the setting, it was approx. 180,000 who had received compensation for their wages and salaries. A few days later, today, it's over 250,000. It's good that the payments are finally being speeded up, so people get the money. The Committee is also very clear that anyone who has waited a long time for money is expected to be paid before the summer. So the business compensation scheme. Changes are now being made in some areas. The centre party has been all the time concerned that this scheme has been important to get in place quickly, but that it falls crooked, not least through the excess that has been in the compensation scheme, which was initially NOK 10000. We proposed that it be removed, and I record that the majority now do it from May. But there's no reason to think that you're not going to do it for the months of April and March. It is equally important for those companies that had a significant fall in turnover during that period that a caretaker removes the excess. It is also important to ensure that one includes several determined costs in the scheme. It is clear that when all the necessary costs related to insurance, watchkeeping, maintenance and unavoidable compensation of employees are not included, there will be little left for the smallest, even if one has removed the excess. Therefore, both the Centre Party and a minority in the Committee consider that further changes to the compensation mechanism are needed. To the seasonal holdings. The majority of the Stortinget decided to have a system for seasonal holdings which was particularly severely affected by the measures implemented by the government. Then there came back a solution from the government parties, to which also the support party the Progress Party has now joined, where seasonal businesses are defined as enterprises that have all or part of their activity outdoors. This means, for example: that SkiStar Trysil gets support. It is an enterprise that is significantly affected, but Trysil-Knut Hotel, for example, which is at least as hard hit, but which operates indoors, is not defined by the government parties and the Progress Party as a seasonal enterprise and is therefore not to be handled in the same way. It is completely incomprehensible, and it is a breach of promises by the majority that one has not provided a proper system for seasonal farms in line with the Storting assumptions. It is now up to the majority to put in place a maintenance cost-related mechanism. There is one evidence that Alpine facilities and amusement parks are to benefit from that scheme. However, there are a number of establishments in Norway that have high maintenance costs that are government-determined and that one cannot escape, both for vehicles, for fire-related lifts, and other HMS requirements. One should of course establish a general and industry-independent system. So in the case of owning versus leasing, which was one of the challenges I signed, the exchange of lines with the Council of State when the case was dealt with, and as the Council of State said the government was concerned that one should look further. The result is that it has not happened. It is still the case that there is an anti-proprietary attitude to the way the scheme is designed. It is therefore appropriate to ensure that changes are made in order, inter alia, to: depreciation and amortisation are included in the plan. There is now a need to implement strong measures to reduce unemployment, to get people to work. The Centre Party has a comprehensive approach in its alternative revised budget to facilitate more activity in the construction sector, to compensate municipalities for their expenses, so that they can both ensure that people are safe in work, that they maintain a good school offer and a good elderly offer, and that they can also be an engine to facilitate increased activity in the construction sector. We provide a comprehensive package for the yard industry, which is hard hit by the crisis. Some shipyards are well protected by the fact that we have now made changes to the Petroleum Tax Act, but other shipyards depend entirely on the fact that we now need to build more ships, mining vessels for the Defence and marine research vessels. And we need to facilitate a green transition in Norway, through a green investment company, and strengthen preparedness for the future. With that, I take up the proposals of the Centre Party and the proposals we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e933	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, has drawn up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e940	First of all, I must say congratulations on the day! 100 years isn't so bad. As rapporteur, it is common for cakes to be distributed to 100-year-olds, so there are probably many Senterparti-rapporteurs who hand out cake to themselves today. I congratulate you on the day! I want to thank for the cooperation this spring, but in my reply I want to focus on international cooperation. The centre party cuts as usual in all the funds that go to the EEA Finance Facility, and I guess that's the first thing you do no matter what budget you make. I think it is very risky in the times we are now in, to stand outside of EU cooperation. It makes us more dependent on other parts of the world, like China, if we don't want to be with our closest allies and our closest partners. So even in times like these, the Central Party still believes it is important to continue the fight against the EEA. Then I have to ask the centre party the question: What customers is the centre party to which our export companies are going to sell, when they want to rock on the basis of our main trade agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e949	First, I would like to thank you for your congratulations on the 100th anniversary. It might have been okay if Vetle Wang Soleim had clarified that it is the Center Party that is 100 years old, but in any case: thank you for that! [[Laughter]] Secondly, to the EEA Agreement: the Government Parties and the Advance Party also belong to the EEA funds – with more than a billion dollars compared to their draft budget. I fully agree that that is not enough. We have to cut more in the record-breaking allocation to the EEA so that we can use the money on more sensible things than a bird's-cash project in Romania, fencing or whatever it might be. We're going to have international cooperation. There are very many countries in the world which have extensive trade with the EU, but only Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein have the EEA Agreement. Through this crisis, we have really seen how we are being overrun by the EEA Agreement, by the fact that almost the smallest decision we made in this matter was only preliminary treatment before it went to censorship in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e956	Let me also start by congratulating the Centre Party on the first 100 years. I record that at a mature age, the Centre Party – and also the representative Gülsvik – has been very concerned about the high level of fees in Norway. This is a positive development supported by the Progress Party. We are also concerned about this, and we are very pleased that in the agreement we have adopted today there is a significant reduction in taxes and taxes, in addition to what we have done in the past: both the removal of inheritance tax and a significant reduction in car charges. But if we look a little ahead in time, what fees does the representative Gülsvik think it will be possible to remove or reduce in a future cooperative constellation with the Socialist Left Party and perhaps the Green Party as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e961	First of all, I would like to thank you for the congratulations. I would also like to say that I am very pleased that the Progress Party has now become a party that is once again a bit concerned with reducing taxes, and at least helps to reduce some of the fees that a person himself was at the head of when he sat with the Minister of Finance for six and a half years. The level of taxation in Norway is now above 5 billion. kr higher than the last Senterpartiet put in government, so it would be very sensible if a person were given a change of charging policy, to receive lower charges in Norway, because the charges are at least before them, most harsh. We have to get a fairer tax policy where one provides lower taxes to people with low incomes, and then those with high incomes can contribute something more to the community than what they do today. They have good back to carry it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e968	The answer was as expected, but there was really no answer to the question. For the sake of order, I can add that after the participation of the Advance Party in government, the total tax and tax level is reduced by 26 billion. kr. But my question was about the future cooperative structure in which the Centre Party may be going in and working together on tax policy with the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and, for that matter, the Workers' Party. What fees does the representative think can be reduced or eliminated in that cooperative structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e973	When the Progress Party left the government, after six and a half years with Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance, the fees were more than six billion. kr higher than when the Socialist Left Party with Kristin Halvorsen was Minister of Finance in Norway. I also think it might be a struggle to get back down on that level. For the Central Party, at least it is quite clear that we are going to ensure that taxes that affect both people and business in Norway are reduced. Of course, we hope that both the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party will help to reduce the fees down from the record high level that the Advance Party has contributed to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e978	Congratulations to Gælsvik and the Center Party for 100 years! Now, when we're discussing and getting presented to the alternative budgets, we're going to have a look at both the additions and the types of containment proposed by the different parties. This year, and in previous years, the central party has three types of invasion: either that Norway will break its international agreements and funds that we have binding agreements around, that one should lay down some government jobs in a rural, such as in Leikanger, or, as at the third discovery, that one should have higher taxes for some of the local owners through the tax changes to which the government provides. In its proposal, the Central Party also spends 30 million. a measure increasing the stockpiling of cereals, which has a total amount of money far in the right hands of 30 million. What kind of new invading is the Central Party going to do to finance the rest of the 100 million needed for this emergency storage? Break More Appointments? Is there any village other than Leikang? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e988	When we make our alternative budgets, we of course base ourselves on the proceeds calculations we get from the Ministry of Finance. That's the way it is on every occasion. Then I register that the representative Storehaug now repeats the exercise he had at the state budget in the fall, that cutting the EEA funds will mean breaking our international obligations. Then it is interesting that the representative Storehaug himself is involved in cutting a billion of EEA funds into proposals for revision. I believe there is a need to cut more in EEA funds to facilitate good action across Norway that will contribute to increased activity and value creation and provide targeted action through reduced fees for industries and businesses that are struggling today. It is good policy for people and business throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e995	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1000	An unusual six-month goes to the end. The size has treated several crisis packages to address the economic consequences of the coronary virus and the closure of Norway. I would like to thank the Financial Committee for its cooperation in what has been a difficult time for the country, and which is still too many. At the same time, I would like to point out that there are now some clear political differences attached to the crisis management between the Labour Party on one side and the Right Party on the other. The main differences are employment and social justice. It is socially fair to give people opportunities, income protection and justice, as the Labour Party has been the driving force in all the crisis packages. It is socially fair to create more areas of action when unemployment is high. 4000 more propose the Worker's Party now. We're also going to follow up on it. Several places of study and several places of study are also concerned with social justice, so that people can complete education or build more skills. Then they are stronger on the way back into work. It counters the fact that there is a greater difference between people and that the crisis in society today does not end up strengthening the personal crisis for individuals and families who are at risk. It is socially fair to prevent cancellations, especially when there are alternatives, as a longer period of leave. The working party proposes to extend the period of leave. Unfortunately, we don't get multiples for that because of the right part. In practice, this means that ordinary workers are now at risk of being laid off in the late summer, because cancellation processes take time, it requires planning, so too many workers and employers can extend the permit arrangements in the budget of the cottage just too late. What's not socially fair is to cut the taxes on wealth. It's the most accurate and reclaimed tax we have. It's a tax that helps those who have the most, also pay the most. It is also quite difficult to see that this should be a crisis response from the right government, as they have tended to cut taxes on wealth in both sunshine and rain for seven consecutive years. It appears to be a purely ideologically motivated cut that gives the greatest advantage to those who have the most money. This happens at the same time as the government budgets down-adjusted salaries for many of those who have worked in the front line in this crisis – nurses, health professionals, care workers across the country – in the government’s proposal for community schemes. In other words, rich people are given priority over workers. They make it easier to spend money on having money rather than spending money on going to work. The working party is not supported. Dropping exchange restrictions is not socially fair. It should have been one of the lessons of the financial crisis, that when the community sets up too large companies with crisis loans, with state guarantees and with compensation schemes, the money must also be demanded not to go into the pockets of owners and shareholders. The community's money must go to the community, and at least there's a social contract that the Labour Party wants to maintain. The municipalities and the counties offer their citizens well-being, and they encourage increased demand in business. They order furniture, electronics and equipment for schools and care homes, and they started repairing road sections and construction projects that can commission many small and large entrepreneurs across the country. It means more work, which means more jobs. If it is to be possible, municipalities and counties will need to have a secure economy. That is why the Labour Party proposes 6 billion. kr in an immediate promise to cover lost income and to increase additional costs associated with the coronary apathy, and we also propose 1.5 billion. to increase private business demand through increased public procurement. Then, of course, the municipalities and counties must also be further compensated if needed. The Labour Party has always said that we have to keep spending money in good times in order to be able to spend more when there are difficult times. What we're experiencing now is undoubtedly difficult times. The most responsible thing now is to use the economic muscles that are needed to minimise the crisis. Finally, I would like to address the Workers' Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1030	The representative of Hadia Tajik has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1037	Over the last few months, the Labour Party has helped to reduce the overall pressure on taxes and taxes to save jobs through a wide-ranging settlement here in the United Kingdom. I was hoping you would keep going, we need more people who want to invest in Norwegian private jobs, not fewer. But then the taxes have to be kept down. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party proposes not to reduce the valuation of shares and operating resources in the property tax, as proposed by the Government. Working capital is the tractor of the farmer and the fishing boat of the fisherman, and I therefore wonder why the representative Tajik and the Workers' Party no longer sees the value of a lower tax pressure for Norwegian jobs, as has been seen in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1042	I thank you for the question. I would like to remind the representative, Mr Kapur, that most of the changes related to taxes and taxes that the Labour Party has been making during this spring are about postings, so it is about giving more liquidity to companies that are in a rather pressing economic situation. There has been a lot of discussion about the devices on, for example. The oil tax, but I would like to remind you that the tax changes have been quite concretely linked to investments that you have to carry out in order to receive depreciation. In this way, it differs from the property tax, which does not require any investment for the cuts proposed by the government party here and wants to be implemented. We have asked for information several times, if the government party can prove that they cut the wealth tax to create jobs. So far they have not been able to document it. If they now suddenly have that type of documentation, they would have to provide it to us. It will also remind you that, in the context of the changes in oil taxes, the Labour Party was a strong driver for demanding that the money that was released should also be used to create jobs along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1047	Another case where there is some uncertainty on the part of the Workers' Party: the government parties have put in place a good and predictable solution together with the Advance Party of the Aquaculture Communities. I can't see what the Workers' Party thinks about how the system should look after 2022. Will it be an investigation? Do you want a new discussion about rent? This is something that creates an uncertain situation in many municipalities, from the country's largest opposition party, so I would like to hear a little about the Workers' Party's thoughts on this matter after 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1052	I thank you for your interest in the Labour Party's policy. It is clear from our positions in the setting of the revised national budget that we support a production fee, but that we believe that the distribution of the government party between the state and the municipality is deeply unfair. Municipalities that make their land available are entitled to compensation for the disadvantage that results in making the area available in the way they have done. So we want to maintain the distribution that one today has. We have also requested a review of the system to ensure long-term safety. I also understand that the government's party also wants a review in order to ensure good conditions, so I can send the question in return: how will the Right's setup look after 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1057	The working party is very opposed to giving tax relief to businesses. Even this spring, a lot of time has been spent suspecting business owners to want to drive to themselves. As we know most business owners, serious and good people create jobs for others. Now at a time when they're fighting to survive, tax relief is actually important. The property tax is a tax to be taxed on the values as at 31 December 2019. Many of the companies that are now operating experience that some of the values have been digested. Yet they have to pay taxes. But in the case of oil taxes, the Workers' Party was on a tax bill of $8 billion. kr. Then there was no problem, as it was a matter of being part of that industry. Why is tax relief for the oil industry, but not for ordinary small businesses in the rest of the country that are struggling and moving forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1066	I would like to remind you that if there are companies that are struggling to pay the property tax, there is already a scheme that makes it possible to suspend the payment of the property tax. It would be interesting to follow the extent to which companies benefit from this possibility, which already exists. When it comes to the arrangements for the oil tax, it is also the case that the Progress Party has been involved in exactly what the Progress Party here is now asking for further answers. I would like to remind you that what was the Progress Party's primary position, which was to introduce depreciation on corporate tax, was the property of weakening the tax base of our country in general, because it could have a contagion effect on corporate tax within the mainland industry. To all intents and purposes, the exact assessment of company tax is something like the Workers' Party and the Right, which are largely disunity in the view of taxation, yet there are some that one should consider. I note that the Ministry of Finance’s assessment that it could weaken the country’s tax base and thus signify significant tax cuts is something we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1073	We are in a coronary crisis, but we are also in a climate crisis. We have ambitious targets that we're going to achieve in the next decade. We're going to reduce the Norwegian emissions by 50 pst. We're just going to sell the zero-emission vehicle by 2025. Then I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party in its proposal now comes up with proposals to impose a charge on electric cars. My question is: is the objective of charging, or will we adjust the charges, so that we actually achieve the objective of selling only a zero-emission vehicle by 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1081	The Labour Party wants a fair climate policy. It is not fair to spend large amounts on financing expensive luxury cars when the buyers themselves have enough money to pay VAT. I think that's one of the things we should have learned through recent years' popular counter-reactions to a lack of justice in climate policy, because people who are in a situation where they can't take other economic choices than driving a car or a diesel car, feel like a huge burden on their wallets, and at the same time have to see that the state is throwing huge amounts of money after people who have quite a lot of money from before. It's not on sight. Then it is better to introduce a VAT rate for electric cars that cost over a certain level, and use the money to allow more people to make climate-friendly choices, as suggested by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1086	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1091	There has been a special time in the country and on Stortinget this spring. In the revised national budget, we also received a Phase 3 package, which allowed us to move much more money than what is usually used in such negotiations. The Progress Party has helped to move more than 5 billion. kr for actions that we believe are important in the future for countries and for people. It's easy to think that we've now come out of this crisis for many who are not so affected by it, but at the same time we know that many are in the middle of it, either because they're out of the way, because they don't have a job to go to, because someone is sick, or because you have businesses that are very hard to deal with. For the Progress Party, it was important in these negotiations to put in place more money for health and the elderly. We've got a total of 1 billion. kr. We want to strengthen the health care system to now ensure patient treatment for the many who have been subjected to consultation, surgery or treatment or even failed to go to the doctor even if they have been concerned, because they will not be bothered, or because it was simply difficult to get in and get help. We want to give priority to cancer treatment, MR and X-ray and to ensure that some of those in Norway who are now in the process of becoming chronically ill are followed up. Older people are one of the groups that are the hardest hit by this pandemic. Many have been at home lonely without contact with other people, without being happy with them, having been able to come home to them or be with them. The phone has been the only link in the world. We know that loneliness is basically a challenge for this group. Now let's add 400 million. kr, which is intended to help combat solitude among the elderly, whether in a nursing home or in a home where it is difficult to get out. Traffic is always important for the Progress Party, and it has also been in this context. We have put in hundreds of millions of dollars to go to small and larger road projects around the country, which will ensure local entrepreneurs jobs and employment through months to come. The Ministry of Transport has emptied lockers and drawers for all the projects that can be launched quickly. We wanted to get rid of the tolls on national roads this summer, so people going on vacation were going to drop that burden. It wasn't possible to do that, and we did a lot of laps on it. But what we got was to remove five toll stations around Norway. I've seen that someone has kind of ridiculed, but it means extremely much to those who live in these areas. Take the Atlantic Tunnel, where a commuter who's going to work in Kristiansund pays 25 000-30,000 a year. Of course, there are limits to how much contact you have in that region that it costs so much. This will bring new life to the Kristiansund region and give completely new opportunities to those who live there. That's why it means a lot. We have got the sugar tax back to the 2017 level, to curb the border trade. To put it that way, this is something the Progress Party is also going to be concerned about when we get to the harvest and the state budget for 2021, that we're getting the push now to bring down the border trade or at least try to reduce it, that it doesn't grow further. Maritime nutrition has been important. Removing the ceiling on the net pay scheme in the fourth quarter will mean a lot for these companies and for the seafarers. We will build extra research ships and provide a doubling of the top finance scheme, which means that Norwegian shipyards can build more boats. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also supported the Commission's proposals in these negotiations. We want to be in and cut as well, to spend less oil money. We did not hear about this because we made an agreement with them, but we are pleased with the result anyway. Finally, I would like to promote a loose proposal by the Progress Party and the government parties dealing with state-funded care.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1116	The representative Sylvi Listhaug has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1123	The representative Listhaug is talking about the elderly, and Sivert Bjørnstad was talking about municipal freedom of action, but in terms of local authorities' freedom of action to obtain income to bet on the elderly, there is a bomb stop at the Progress Party. In this year's budget, the ceiling for property tax was lowered from 7 to 5 per million. It has cost the municipalities several hundred million dollars. My own, Trondheim, it's cost 77 million. kr. There's a lot of money compared to the 10-12 million. kr they get, of the 400 million. kr from the Progress Party for care of the elderly. You cut the equation rate from 80 to 70 pst. It's not a proceeds estimate, but it's probably going to cost 1 billion. kr or more. And then you're going to go from 5 to 4 per million next year, and you're not going to calculate the proceeds, but it might cost you 1.5 billion. kr. The former rapporteur of the Progress Party in Bamble said that we have to choose tax havens against hospitals when he refused to cut the property tax and instead build hospitals. Why won't Listhaug let other municipalities make the same choice: put older people ahead of tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1130	We are pleased that we are now having the property tax reduced in Norway. It benefits those who own houses and homes. Many municipalities do well without property taxes and have good services for the inhabitants. That's why it can't be that we just spend money all the time in the public sector without demanding that we actually turn the heads and prioritize the most important thing first. Therefore, the municipalities must be compensated for in connection with the coronary apathy. They've already got 6 billion. kr, and it is now working to review all the material: all the expenses they have had and the revenue they have to see how much is missing. The Progress Party believes that the government will do well, and that we will be able to decide later on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1137	The party of progress is the government's leading supporting party. In the budget negotiations now, although the Progress Party was strong against earlier this winter, it was possible to reduce the proportion from NOK 10 000 to 0 of the compensation scheme. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Workers' Party have argued against it before, but the Center Party had the right analysis then, and that's good. For some reason, the Progress Party has been very behind and supporting anti-proprietary policies. You think it's wrong. When people own their operating assets, e.g. the bus, plant machinery or other equipment is poorly compensated, while his man leases are rewarded. There has been a dream arrangement for the leasing companies located in Oslo, that leasing has become what needs to be supported, while those operating in traditional operations, run depreciation, operate conservatively, are punished. Why does the Progress Party think it is wise to pursue such a hostile policy that leasing should be rewarded rather than traditional ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1144	The Progress Party doesn't think so at all, and that's why there's one of several things we've dealt with with the government parties in terms of the compensation scheme. I'm very happy that we now helped to remove the excess, because that will mean a lot to the small businesses. There are also other issues to which the government is now going to come back, such as: this with seasonal holdings. It doesn't make any sense that those who run out are part of that system, but you shouldn't do that when we know that, for example. Very many hotels are seasonal establishments that have open parts of the year. For the Progress Party, it is important that the government continues to work on this and find good solutions. There's reason to ask questions about the scheme when we see that only 2.5 billion. kr has been paid. It's supposed to cost you about 50 billion. kr. Now the Progress Party is not busy spending as much money as possible, but those who deserve it and are ready for it will get money. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1151	It's okay that the Progress Party now boasts that you've gotten the prop down to zero from June. It should have been from the month of March, so that small businesses, taxi drivers and others could get rid of trades both in March, April and May. But for some reason, the Progress Party would not give priority to having it retroactively, to help all the small businesses that have had it tough in the last few months. So it's okay to say that you think there's a problem with the compensation system that those who own instead of renting don't get any help, but why don't the Progress Party just use its power to make any changes to it, when they've been sitting and negotiating? The party of progress is the government's leading supporting party. It is thanks to the Advance Party that the Left sits in government with the Christian People's Party and the Right. Why does not the Progress Party now use the power to ensure that traditional Norwegian companies, especially many district companies, receive compensation, such as those who lease and those who rent?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1160	As I said, we've addressed these issues, and we're going to work on them. What was the most important thing for us in this round was two things: it was to make sure that we got rid of the excess, that we did, and that you have to look at how the definition of seasonal holdings is to be drawn up. That's what we're going to do. Then it is that in negotiations the Progress Party has more than one thought in its head. For us, it was important to secure the yard industry in the West. This is why we got several things that contribute to increased activity on the shipbuilding side, for example. the removal of the net pay scheme, which is very important for the offshore industries. We got to remove the toll five places in Norway, which means huge for those regions where this happens. And we got a billion to health and the elderly. So in total, we're happy with the result, although of course it's things that we should also like to see even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1169	The representative spoke about the impact of the Progress Party on the elderly in budgetary negotiations. That's where I think we share the commitment, because it's important, but I think we can also agree that the most important thing for the care of the elderly is that the community economy is good, because it's the municipalities that make sure that there's enough sick homes, enough people in the nursing homes, and that the domestic staff have enough time. So my question to the representative is: why has the Progress Party not prioritised increasing the appropriations for the municipalities now, as we have done jointly in previous rounds of negotiations? For now there are very many municipalities calling for crisis. They have now implemented budget rounds in the context of the revised budget, but do not have an oil fund to take off and fear large budget cuts in the future. I would like to see the Progress Party prioritised it in its negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1177	In the case of the local economy, there's only six billion. kr, and it has to be worked with, among others. KS to see what the real needs are. So I'm sure we'll get closer to the harvest, if you've come so far that you can say something more about how much might be missing. So it's one of the most important things for the public sector, for the care of the elderly, for Norway to go around, is to ensure the value creation in the country by ensuring the oil industry's framework conditions that make them invest. There, SV, to say it carefully, has not contributed worth mentioning. We need to ensure that the businesses that are around the whole country have framework conditions that enable them to continue to create values and pay taxes to the community. It is one of the most important measures to ensure long-term care for the elderly. And we're going to keep prioritizing it, because we need tax revenue to keep the public sector going.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1184	The queue change has now been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1189	An economic crisis, the biggest since World War II, the climate crisis, an existential crisis and a welfare crisis with increasing differences and well-being affected by budget cuts. We are facing three overlapping crises. They're connected and they have to be solved together. Today, we are dealing with the government's revised budget and the government's crisis package to get Norway out of the crisis, the so-called Phase 3 package – two documents that actually in many ways underline what we have seen throughout the spring: the government's response has been completely inadequate in the crises we are facing. Because if it were up to the government, Norway would actually be in a much deeper crisis today than we are. We'd have more unemployment, more people wouldn't make the economy go around, more companies would go bankrupt. It is the Storting and the parties here in the opposition that have had to lead in these crises that we have been in and that have taken responsibility. We've made the crisis packages stronger and much more social. If it is up to the government, Norway will not succeed in meeting the current crises. The climate crisis meets us today, and around us, countries are using their crisis packages to turn the economy into a greener direction and build new and green industries, because they realize that a non-green crisis package is not a crisis package for the economy. But in Norway the climate loses when the big money is to be distributed. According to the government, the crisis is soon over, for now the income insurance schemes are going back to normal. If you are on leave with low pay and uncertain job prospects – a shame for you, the government is informed. People now go into the summer with a lot of uncertainty as if they want a job to go to in the fall and how much money they're going to have to go with. They didn't deserve that uncertainty. These cuts in income have not been earned. In many industries, we may be back to normal, but in others, the crisis has begun so far. Strong policies are needed to deal with the crises we face, to prevent unemployment from breaking down now, to transform the Norwegian economy for the future and to ensure that our well-being does not have to be reduced. SV today presents a three-part package to solve three crises: NOK 3x10 billion to build Norway out of the crisis and equip us for the future. SV suggests 10 billion. to combat the economic crisis. It's a package to save jobs and speed up the economy. Let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see 3 billion. kr for occupational safety and income protection, while proposing cyclical measures such as energy efficiency improvement and upgrading of buildings, solar cell installations, operation, maintenance and renewal of railways, highways, county roads and ports, construction of foot-and-mouth and cycle routes, broadband development throughout the country and upgrading of water and sewerage. SV suggests 10 billion. kr to strengthen the well-being of municipalities. Because the municipality's expenses are paid to the teacher of our child, to those who care for the elderly in hospital homes, to the cleaners who keep us healthy. Those who have stood in the front line in the fight against the virus in hospitals, or those who have taught 25 kids on screen, are now given thanks to the right-wing government: fear of tighter budgets ahead, more to do and fewer people at work. We can't have it like that! SV proposes an additional 10 billion. kr to the municipalities, who have incurred increased costs and large income losses. For there can be no school, child protection or health care centres accounting for the coronary apathy. SV suggests 10 billion. kr for Norway to get greener out of the crisis. Most of the new jobs created now must be green. We are proposing a programme for the process industry, because in a zero-emission society, material production must also be emission-free. Norway has good opportunities to lead the way. We want to move forward in the realization of carbon capture and storage and the expansion of sea winds. We'll give concrete and green projects to the yard industry, and we'll build up the production and distribution of hydrogen. Where the government has good points of speech, we have concrete points of action. An economic crisis package is not a crisis package if it is not green. And now we can't hesitate to let the opportunities for creating the industry and jobs of the future go away from us. It is possible to get out of this crisis with an economy that is green and with differences that are lower, but then we need another government. – With this I address the SV’s proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1212	Then the representative Kaski has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1219	While many of us have been concerned that businesses are going to survive and jobs are going through, SV has a great deal of fear – at least externally – that Greek and greedy business owners are going to enrich themselves at the expense of the big society. The fact that there were now going to be large yield parties in parts of the business community is as surreal as it is possible to achieve it. There's no business at all. But somewhere that goes surprisingly well is at Oslo Stock Exchange. Many are probably surprised that the values there are soon back at the levels they were before going downhill abruptly in March. It also means that some people who have securities are getting their wealth up – on paper – even if businesses go bad and lose money. That also increases the differences – on paper. Is it a problem that the stock exchange is rising?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1226	In order to take advantage of everyone first, and the drag park that comes from the representative about it: I have to say it surprises me that right in Norway the right side and the big crowd are absolutely convinced that it is not necessary to impose demands on those who receive huge sums from the community, from the state – that we should only distribute billions directly to companies and to business owners, without a single requirement. In other countries around us, in the EU, partymates of these parties in Norway naturally agree to demand that these companies receiving direct support from the state do not make any dividends. It should have been obvious when you get large government transfers, and it's really about trust in the support we give now and the economic crisis packages. And no, it's not a problem that the stock exchange is rising. But of course, those who are now receiving increased benefits because the price goes up, should also pay taxes on it to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1233	SV will put down our biggest industry, which gives us the income to save business, and blow up the oil money usage by a total of 33 billion. kr. And not enough of that -- they want to take up government debt to let the oil fund invest in shares. Ida, the oil fund is capable, but speculating in shares with borrowed money means higher risk and a less transparent state economy. Not least, the state will be on a dangerous path that makes it easier for politicians to spend money they don't have, and if there's something I don't dare, releasing the left hand side with the credit card to the Norwegian people. So the question to the representative is, why does SV want to put Norway in debt to speculate on the community's money?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1238	All of them first: SV wants a transformation of our economy and a shutting down of the oil, that's absolutely right, while we're building up other industries. I have a news for the representative Stokkebø, and it is that it is not SV who spends the most oil money in the packages we handle today. It is clearly the government parties and the bulk of the population that do, because of the oil tax package. That's where the oil billions fly. Having said that, I think it might be wise to discuss – these are hardly discussions for the large majority – how we finance the kind of crisis packages that we have been through now. So now we're selling assets from the oil fund for a period of low interest rates, and other countries around us are borrowing money, and then I think it's wise to take that discussion: is it wise to doubt the idea that we're going to use the oil fund, which is the last thing we lose money on, instead of taking up cheap loans to be part of the crisis packages we're in? I think it's an interesting discussion, and we should have gone that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1247	One should be pretty good at being creative in order to get what is primarily a tax deferral, to equal over 33 billion. NOK in the increased use of oil money that we do not get again. The representative Kaski does not escape the increased risk her proposal would involve. Here, SV wants to go shopping with the Norwegian people's credit card to buy shares. Who would have thought that? But we have a construction industry, which also deserves attention. Although the representative recently rejected an invitation to Cayman Island, she is cordially welcome to Rogaland, which she certainly has not just read about in a book. There she will find a weather-hard fjord where the ferries stop going at regular intervals. She will find Norway's most profitable road project, where the spade has been in the ground, a project that is more environmentally friendly than a continued ferry option. The government is working to get Rogfast started. SV suggests in its budget to take a rematch. So my question to SV is: why will SV stop Norway's most profitable road project when we know it's getting worse for people, worse for the environment and will lead to more lay-offs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1254	First of all, it's not like when SV uses oil money in its arrangement, we don't get money again, while when the government uses it, they come back magically. Both of us, both on the right and on the left, use oil money to invest in businesses, in business, in industry that is going to increase tax revenue in the long term. I'd like to take the trip to Rogaland. I've definitely been to Rogaland before. It's a great country, and I'd like to go there again. But then it's probably primarily to give priority to projects that are just good for the environment, and we don't think that Rogfast is. We do not believe that investing in new, large-scale motorway projects also in central lines is a trick. The same could be said for the development of the E18, which the government will force against the wishes of the inhabitants of Oslo and Viken. On the contrary, we give priority to large sums – more than the majority of them add – just to support the construction industry, but then to ensure the maintenance and upgrading of county roads and highways, which is imperative, rather than supporting this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1261	When we talk about the environment, and when SV wants to cut out Rogfast, an important employment project, for activity, to bind Rogaland and the West together, let's go a little bit closer to the environment. The State Road Service has calculated that even if the installation period is included in the project and still the ferry operation on electricity, the tunnel option will continue to be better for the environment. What is it that the representative and SV know as the Vegvesen and those who have calculated it do not know when they say that the ferry option is best for the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1267	Rogfast is a gigantic new highway extension. Realising it, the intervention we're against, will mean getting more car-based, it will increase car-trafficking. It's also a development we're opposed to. This is not an option where we want less activity in the construction industry, on the contrary, we want more, but we want to spend the workers and the money wiser, by providing both maintenance and upgrade. The country is screaming for racial protection, in particular in the West, from which the representative Stokkebø comes, of roads that are dangerous to drive on because the government has not prioritised sufficient funds for anti-slip and racial protection. We want to give priority to upgrading the rail network, and we want to give more priority to the states just to be able to invest in zero-emission travel, for which there is a great potential, but for which the government would not have supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1272	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1277	The coronary apathy and the economic crisis we are now in is the greatest we have had since the Second World War, but, as others have also pointed out, we are also in a more fundamental crisis – the climate and natural crisis – that the world has never faced before. Fortunately, we had provided a basis for how we would meet this. In February, just before we had to shut the country down, Norway reported an increased level of ambition to the United Nations to reduce emissions by 50 pst. by 2030. Last autumn, we agreed with the EU that we should have common climate targets by 2030. It gives a completely different systematic approach than before in the climate work we're going to do in the future. One of the most important things we are debating today is the green conversion package to be adopted. 3.6 B.C.E. kr to green conversion is no obvious. It's enough of those who want to go the same way as in the previous crisis, and we're going to get out of the crisis the same way we got into it. The corona pandemic has changed the Norwegian economy and society, and it is our responsibility to go into the future with the right initiatives. The climate crisis is as real today as it was before the coronary apathy. 3.6 B.C.E. kr is a good sum and is based on increased budgets, both for this year and for previous budgets. That everything goes to green measures is right. We are directly involved in efforts that create activity for industry and that contribute to the development of climate technologies. We come up with proposals to help the supplier industry convert from having contracts with the non-renewable sector to the renewable sector. The measures for the maritime sector are important to ensure reactivity in Norwegian shipyards, but also to enable Norway to take the lead in the development of non-emission ships. Enova is an effective tool for using Community funds for green conversion. Enova will use the additional stand of 2 billion in a good way. kr which they now receive through the green conversion package. In addition to strengthening Enova's mandate to develop the green solutions of the future, we are making a boost for research and innovation. The green competition platform we establish enables the Research Council, Innovation Norway and Siva to deliver on research and development in cooperation with Norwegian companies. There are no watertight bulkheads between Enova's arrangements and this scheme, and I hope that several small businesses will be able to benefit from the interaction that will arise between the two aid schemes. There are also further efforts in the proposals we are considering today: The climate rate is increased by 50 million. kr. Green shipping, which we have strengthened through the spring, gets further reinforcements. The agreement with the Progress Party increases by an additional 150 million. kr. Nysnø gets a stronger position. We're also going to spend 100 million. kr on innovation in the circular economy. It's an exciting start-up grant for one of the big issues we have to get on a long way in the years we've got ahead of us. I am also particularly pleased that, through our cooperation with the Progress Party, we are embarking on intercity sections between Kleverud and Åkersvika. It is a large project that commits large amounts of money in addition to the year's budget. But it's important, not only for the Inland, but also for the whole country, because there's a network in the East that could be exploited in the years to come. Now, when the government gets measures to get people back to work, to make sure we have more legs to stand on, we need to have more skills. That's why we're getting a boost in the education promise in 2020 and measures to include more, with 456 million. for integration measures. It is important that this too be implemented in order to create a green future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1316	The Labour Party believes that access to clean and cheap power should be among Norway’s foremost competitive advantage in securing jobs and investment in Norwegian industry and in creating new green industrial jobs. Norwegian Forest recently announced their assessment of significant investments, including: on Forests, but such investments depend on the predictability and long-termity of the framework conditions. In recent times, Statnett has raised doubts about the framework conditions for Norwegian industry. The Governing Council yesterday announced that it did not respond to the needs of the industry. According to Hydro, the new tariff model from Statnett will mean about 250 million. kr in Hydro extrapolation. It worries the Workers' Party, and it should worry more. But now Stortinget has the opportunity to take action. The Labour Party is promoting proposals today which could help to ensure the long-term sustainability of the industry. Will the Left, who talks a lot about the green shift, vote for our proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1321	I guess it's pretty clear that today we don't. We're leading our own strategy to get to the green shift. As regards renewable energy, the focus of this revised budget and the package of measures is on Enova and the support schemes they have there. In the case of Forests in particular, the left has previously been very central to establishing the biogas plant in Forests, which is probably the largest in Europe, at least in Northern Europe. As far as I know, with the policy we are pursuing for the conversion to zero-emission solutions – calculating biogas as a zero-emission solution within transport – last year's figures show that sales are increasing. I think it's 27 pst. Last year alone, so it's a policy that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1326	Yes, then the message has been received. The message from the Left to the industrial workers in the important power-processing industry is that there is no drag help to get in view of the concerns that are now linked to the signals from the government of Statnett. Where the right side hopes that the green shift will come, and that there will be tax incentives for it, the Workers' Party believes that political will must be shown for it to happen. The labour, business and industrial sectors are ready to implement the green shift, but the investments they are now planning are prevented and difficult if, among other things, the Governing Board of Statnet is currently planning to be implemented. Why isn't the Left and the Government willing to use political muscles and use Statnet as a strategic tool to implement the green shift, which the Left likes to talk about?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1331	That's completely wrong. It's just by a civil majority that we've made systematics and clear goals to get to the green shift we need. It is with our policies that we have achieved a consensus and common objective with the EU in the quota sector – now also in the non-quota sector. We have set the target for 2030 to 50 pst., and we are pursuing a policy that will provide emission reduction systems in the years to come. Of course, an important part of this will also focus on industry. Industry has contributed to emission reductions. Since 1990 it has reduced its emissions by 40 p.m., it is, and we will support it in the process of industrial conversion. In particular, to support conversion, it was important for the Left to maintain the CO 2 compensation scheme for industry. It's been important over the years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1339	As part of the compensation schemes, a compensation scheme has also been established within cultural events – an organiser’s support – which has now been extended to include technical subcontractors. At the same time, important elements of an event are not included. You don't get any special events if you don't have an artist and a device around the artist. The organisation for the entertainment industry, NEMAA, has summarised the following: With this setting, the government parties throw the Norwegian music industry under the wagon and categorize a major part of the Norwegian music and entertainment industry as irrelevant. Why does the Left, who also sits with the Minister of Culture, help throw the Norwegian music industry under the cart? And why is one not in favour of a full arrangement support scheme, including: artists are also included?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1346	There are many compensation schemes in the field of culture. It is for culture, volunteering and sport – for the cultural sector, and for the volunteering and sport sector, and all of these are strengthened in the proposals we now have. I think it's 1.5 billion. kr on the first, 650 mill. NOK the second and SEK 850 million. kr on the third, in addition to that which goes to museums and other. Then these are support schemes that are constantly being adapted. This arrangement we are now receiving takes – as is just said here – the subcontractors into the compensation scheme. And then left is and has always been a party that has built up and supported up under the cultural sector, and we're going to continue to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1351	At a time of great extraordinary costs because of the pandemic, it's not so strange that we make decisions here in the Stortinget that we can't have full cost control on. But SV believes that in the areas we can have cost control, we should have it. Building the government quarter is an area where we can have cost control, but the large number, with Left's support, has chosen not to have it. Now there are big changes there, and there are also buildings that I know Ola Elvestuen is very busy – we're talking about the Y block. We are aware that the Left will not support the SV's proposal here to get back a cost framework for the government quarter and stop the demolition until we have received it. My question to the representative Elvesuen is: is he willing to break out of the Left and actually vote for the SV proposal that we should secure the Y block until we have a cost framework for the entire government quarter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1359	Unlike Petter Eide and SV, I and Left have been working for a different solution in the government quarter since the concept selection investigation was held back in 2012 – through architectural competitions, through two choices, through a decision in the Jeloya platform to look at a reduction in the project. Keeping the Y block has been important to me, and that's still the way it stands. It is important that we finally get a government quarter to be built – it is to be developed over decades – and that is well adapted to the urban environment we have in Oslo. This is an important and big project. I think both the questioner and everyone else very well know what I mean about this – the Y block should stand. Right on the vote today, we're going to see how it's being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1364	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1369	Going back and looking at what was said and sent out when we adopted the state budget for 2020 could be an interesting exercise. I did that and checked what was in the press release that was sent out when the state budget was submitted. It said: ‘Norway is within a good period. Businesses are optimistic and keen to invest. They create new jobs in the city and the village. The government uses good time to prioritise measures that contribute to a greener, more modern and safer Norway.’ A few months later, we had to shut the country down because of the virus pandemic, and we went into the worst economic crisis we've had in very many years. We've seen unemployment rates that we haven't seen in many decades. Nevertheless, the measures that the government has seen take place have been largely successful. We have managed to fight against the first wave of infection with relatively low mortality rates compared to many other countries. Now we're doing well to open up that country and get the wheel back on. Despite what has been happening in recent times, our country is still in a deep crisis. Therefore, the government has presented RNB and Phase 3 measures to help relaunch the wheels. It should help to ensure that those who have been on the job come back to work and include those who have already been outside the labour market, and we should also manage the country safely for an uncertain time with great international tensions. Especially important in the measures that the Stortinget is discussing and entering into today is the fact that we are also getting a way towards children and young people who have been in an extremely vulnerable situation during the time we have been through. That's going to be 400 million. kr, and after the negotiations on the Stortinget with the Progress Party, a similar promise has also been made to the elderly. Many of them have been isolated, have had to bow alone and have gone through great personal sacrifices to share in the virtues of which we have all been in. In addition, an important social profile has also emerged when one of the measures currently adopted is to give priority to activities, tools or integration packages or ensure that compensation schemes are strengthened towards some of the actors that are important for sectors that are working against deferred and vulnerable groups in our society. That's good. The virus pandemic is not just something that happens to our country, it applies to all of us. For this reason, it is also important that we contribute 180 million dollars today. kr to the IMF's disaster fund and SEK 5.8 billion. SEK and 102 million. kr to the IMF and the World Bank for their borrowing arrangements for low-income countries. It's important, because it's about how a collective value should move forward after this crisis. I am pleased that the Storting gives its support to the re-priorities. In an urgent period of time, the revised national budget we are now adopting contributes to activity throughout the country, green change and growth in business, security and support to those who need it, and to building skills for future urban and urban communities. Permissions to municipalities or projects that are important in the yard industry, the construction industry and the transport project ensure activity throughout the country. Above all, there are a few who say that one should also have a high level of competence and a level of knowledge, and it is again evident in the majority of their priorities. Knowing that our young people and those with no formal competence who have become the hardest hit by the high unemployment rate now show that the community will now invest more in the future, and that the most important value we have, simply people, or human capital, which it is called fine, is the most important thing we build. There's also the big money to add. The package of measures we are adopting now shows the way out of the crisis. Nine out of ten who are licensed are in the private sector. Then we have to get our business back on track, and we have to do it in a way that is viable and that ensures that our growth is green. Only in this way can we create growth and jobs that last. The size now adopts climate change change instruments through Enova, the Top Funding Scheme for Better Ships, and a compensates the counties for collective ticket revenue, so that one knows that the activity there can come back when the activity of society opens up. The government party has negotiated and put in place a good budgetary settlement with the Progress Party, with which we are well pleased. The whole way has laid the foundation of government's basic priorities, and then one has a set of important things that have been important to the Progress Party, and we've got a health that's good, that shows a direction in our country further. Finally, I would like to make a loose proposal on behalf of the plural party where a beg government worked quickly and made the necessary clarifications with the aim of realising the airport in Mo in Rana.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1395	The representative Tore Storehaug has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1400	For the Workers' Party, it is an objective to get out of this crisis with a better society where we have created jobs, reduced greenhouse gas emissions and reduced the economic differences between people in our country. After all, we need to use these debates and line changes to find out what we disagree about and what we agree on, and now we've been trying to ask representatives from other government parties over the last few weeks and months if they want to reduce the financial differences in Norway, or to keep them at about the same level as today. Then is my question to the representative Storehaug about the Christian People's Party, like the Workers' Party, about reducing the financial differences in Norway, and, if so, how does this revised national budget contribute to such an objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1405	Thanks for a large and superior question that is a little difficult to answer in one minute. I agree with many of the overarching actions that the Labour Party representative points to as the direction out of the crisis. I also agree with him that it is important that we have a country with small differences, and I think that this revised national budget will then deliver to those degrees. We know, and have seen through this crisis, that those who get the hardest on the path of unemployment are those who have the longest way into working life, those who have low formal competence and, in particular, our young people. They're overrepresented in the high unemployment rates that we're now seeing. There the government delivers a package to create activity throughout the country, for example: the most targeted measure one has, a direct pay supplement to businesses to take back people who have been outsourced. This, I think, is a concrete policy that also shows a direction, and I think will help our country both get its activity back up, make sure that there are low differences and show a resilient way out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1412	I am asking a new question, since I did not get a complete answer to the previous one: when one has budgetary units, such as this one, between a government and a supporting party in the Stortinget – as here the Progress Party – either the parliamentary leaders or the fiscal figures tend to declare that a good budget has become even better. I didn't hear so many people say that a good budget had become even better after the agreement with the Progress Party this time, and that could be because the Advance Party received tax cuts on shower, or cut into property taxes or the removal of tolls, which are not exactly the Christian People's Party's heart matters. So the question is whether the representative Storehaug thought that a good budget was even better after the agreement with the Progress Party in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1417	I noticed that the representative from the Labour Party did not think I answered the previous question, i.e. whether reduced differences or keeping the differences low. The most important thing we do then is get people to work. Let me say it as clearly as that. And then I think we've come to an agreement with the Progress Party that delivers on it. We have e.g. a greater commitment to top finance for new ships, which will create activity in Norwegian shipyards, bring yard workers back to work, contribute to the replacement of our fleet, which will become greener and more resilient. Another example, which I also mentioned in my article, is that one has got 400 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking you very much for your excellent report. What I mean is that the wholeness that the government party and the party of progress have negotiated is a good health, and I am fully aware of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1422	The representative Storehaug represents an amazingly beautiful state to which many tourists come every year. Now there is a hope that many from Norway will choose to leave in Sogn and Fjordane this year. do it. Nevertheless, there will be very few tourists in Sogn and Fjordane compared to what is usually seen. Some of those hit hard are the tourist hotels, among others. Kviknes Hotel in Balestrand, who commented when they saw the model for seasonal businesses, that they wondered if it could really be true, and that this was a total record bomb. Why does the Christian People's Party think it makes sense to establish a system for seasonal businesses that do not include companies that also operate indoors, such as the United Kingdom? Kviknes Hotel and other tourist hotels around Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1431	Once again, I have to thank you for the question. It is an important question that the representative Gülsvik raises, and I am happy to hear about his holiday plans. More should do as he does. So I also think that the government has provided good health when it comes to seeing these areas that are now becoming particularly hard frames. It's an example, but an entire municipality, like Aurland, is also an example of it. There is also an action package 3 and the RNB that will look at the whole community and how these changes will turn out there. When it comes to the compensation mechanism, this is something we have also had in the negotiations with the Progress Party. There is an agreement that also points forward, where it is possible to look at improvements. Because it's obvious that these are important companies that represent important values, and that it's important that we carry with us through this crisis. One thing we do when we adopt the RNB and the Phase 3 measures is that we encourage these types of family-owned enterprises to come out better in the longer term when, for example, one. changes the tax arrangements, which the Centre party unfortunately opposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1440	I record that the government parties once again point to each other after settlement negotiations, as they do, among other things. in the regional reform debate, where one joined Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland, which no one knew was a particularly good idea. One points to another and says that this has been a topic in the discussions, but nevertheless one does not solve the problems. Of course, for the Kviknes Hotel and for other tourist hotels around Norway, it is crucial to obtain compensation, as one would expect from the clear decisions made by a unanimous collapse, that one should have a broad seasonal model based on loss of sales, not limited to operating all or part of their business outdoors. It's come from somewhere, at some point on the road, and then it's become the policy of the majority in this room. Why is it reasonable to exclude tourist businesses from a seasonal model?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1448	Again: I agree with the representative in that overseeing need here. It is also true that, throughout the debate on the compensation system, there have been multiple numbers and a mass increase, with the idea that it has been important to put the broad grips in place, and that it has been more difficult to deliver in millimetres. We share the concerns that have been raised against some of these seasonal businesses. There's also a point of agreement that points to the fact that someone wants to follow it. And so for these companies, it also means that you get an agreement that points forward, and also how you want to take care of the family-owned businesses and the local ownership. Then you have to look at the width of the policy and how it turns out for this type of enterprise. They're going to bring us both in 2021 and in the future, because they're important to our country, and they're especially important to a state like Sogn and the Fjords.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1455	Then the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1460	There has been a long and special spring in Stortinget, where the Coronapandemy has put both authorities and democracy to the test. In the course of two weeks now, the total number of unemployed in Norway increased by 235,000 people. The situation escalated rapidly and was extremely unpredictable. I think very many aspects of the crisis were managed with calm, some sort of hectic calm, well and notice, and a good cooperation, and I want to thank both the Finance Committee for the cooperation, and the state councils that have entered the Chamber in the last minutes after we had a round of gratitude also in place. From the time we were hit in March by the Coronapandemy, we have been working in the Greens for a policy that is taking us safely out of today's coronary crisis in a way that prevents new crises, climate change, destruction, pandemics or sudden unemployment due to a vulnerable oil-dominated economy. Today we are discussing how Norway should use its economic muscles to ensure that people return to work again, and not just in work, but in jobs like goods, which are sustainable, and which take care of the well-being, freedom and opportunities of our kids. To continue to bet on fossil energy is to hold a rough course into a new crisis that becomes much larger than the coronary apathy. We cannot isolate ourselves from the climate crisis in the same way as from a pandemic, nor will the climate crisis pass without everyone, both people, businesses and public authorities doing their job to reduce emissions. The impact of the climate crisis on nature, insects, animals and humans, food security and democracy will be permanent. Therefore, EU leaders are now using the Corona crisis as an opportunity to change the economy and make society more sustainable. Therefore, France provides support to Air France on condition that it reduces the inland flights where trains are an alternative. For this reason, France is supporting its national car industry with the aim of making France the largest in Europe on electric cars. Therefore, Merkel has chosen to respond with a similar effort on electric cars in Germany. In Europe, environmental requirements are a prerequisite for aid. Countries are competing to turn their industry into more climate friendly. In Norway, I feel that we are doing the opposite. It's the EU that buys most of our gas. But they have to end with fossil energy. They also stopped buying Norwegian gas. In the New Year's speech, Prime Minister Erna Solberg devoted a lot of space to the climate crisis. She asked us to prepare for tougher climate policies. As Prime Minister, she reminded us that emissions in Norway are about as large today as they were in 1990. In the rest of the world, they go up. The main reason for this is that we burn too much coal, oil and gas. If we want the emissions down, we can't even burn the oil and gas that we know about today. The last week's definition of the ice-cream zone is in conflict with environmental advice along with the new oil subsidies is the very opposite of the Prime Minister's proclamation in his New Year's. The majority of the population, including the government parties, have proved Ernas Solberg's fault, and given district minister Linda Hofstad Helleland, who is also in the Chamber today, right in that environmental policy is what Norway considers to be a luxury we should not afford when it really applies. Although the crisis package for the oil industry was dealt with last week, it was today we were going to adopt the green crisis package, the package we were promised on the day the government announced the proposal for deferred tax for the oil industry. It never came. Instead, we got some individual measures that would be a matter of course even in a normal year. The size still has no idea what the potential could have been to create green jobs for the supplier industry if everything could have been put ahead in demand for sea wind, carbon capture and storage, electrification of ferries, ships and barges and other renewable maritime industries. The crisis package for the petroleum industry contains both large tax credits and large tax deferrals. Both parts will provide massive incentives for investments in fossil energy in the next few years. In fact, the fossil energy crisis package is 39 billion. kr in tax advantages to the oil industry, according to the Ministry of Finance's figures for the Evening Item. It is the value of the industry being able to make direct investments and deduct taxes today instead of next year or in four years. The size is used to the fact that the Greens are critical of the majority's oil policy, but this time it's a little bit different than it does, because this time there are a lot of others who also share our vision, which usually don't. When Gunnar Stavrum and Trygve Hegnar, but even more important to the Ministry of Finance: almost a dozen professors of economics, agree with the Greens and the environmental movement, then the alarm clocks should ring. The Greens believe that it is possible to do as Europe does. We can adopt a conversion package as monks, creating work, activity and a greener economy, without going about more fossil investments. This is about willingness to look at new instruments. Today, we are promoting a number of proposals for this revised national budget. We're proposing to set of 5 billion. kr via Innovation Norway to a top-level financing scheme for low- and zero-emission ships. We propose to strengthen the guarantee scheme for shipping under GIEK by 1 billion. kr. We propose direct expenditure on investments in sea wind for five years in the future, in addition to 1 billion. kr in support of sea wind this year as a start. If we are to unlock large potentials for jobs, technology development and renewable energy production, the state must contribute money, tax havens, marine wind risk relief. In addition, we propose to strengthen Enova's work with a total of 2.5 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. The money shall be used to support solar panels, ewes, energy advice, electric bicycles and loading stations in housing blocks. All of this also creates activity. We're proposing to put off 1.5 billion. kr for the electrification of the coastal fleet, shore-side electricity and the expansion of hydrogen stations. We're proposing $300 million. for conversion to low-emission solutions in industry and start-up of a biogas programme such as, inter alia, shall finance biogas plants and biogas cars in heavy transport. We propose to establish a risk loan scheme under Innovation Norway of 1.5 billion. And we're proposing to cancel out $300 million. kr to build fast chargers all over the country for the next six months, so that people don't have to worry about reach and load queues and to create activity. Finally, I want to mention a few other suggestions we also have. We in the Greens are proposing today to change the tax system to become fairer. We increase the taxes on income by over NOK 700000 and use the increased income of people with a good salary to lower the taxes on low pay. In addition, we are proposing a basic income hedge for everyone in situations like the one we've had in ours. This spring has become extra difficult for many people who have had to wait longer to get the money they are demanding from Nav. It makes life even tougher for the most vulnerable, who have the least to go on. Today we are dealing with a proposal from Red that points to one of the same things, and I hope that the Storting and the government will be able to put in place measures as soon as possible to ensure that no one falls between chairs in the time that comes. With that, I will deal with the proposals that the Greens have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1494	The representative of Une Bastholm has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1501	It's important to use the conversion we're in to support the green shift. Just over the past few weeks, we've put in place measures for green investment totaling up to a total of 5 billion. kr. At the same time, we have focused on taking care of the jobs and competences of the oil and gas industry and the supplier industry, which is the main engine of the transition to the renewable society. As we heard, the MDG will reject the entire crisis package for the oil industry. Can then MDG tell how they over 200 billion. kr we finance the welfare with, can be replaced by the tax revenue from immature green jobs, which is actually at the development stage, and can MDG tell us where in the welfare they will cut to get the math to go up?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1508	These are well-known questions. When it comes to the revenue of the state from the oil industry, what I'm least concerned about is what I'm worried about. There's the very question we're trying to ask again and again: can we be as sure that we get the same income from the oil that we've had in the future? That's why I want to put the same question back: For every new experiment you have on new investments in oil and energy – how can we know that we get money back in the same way that we got at the end of last century? The oil and gas industry was the major industrial venture of the last century for Norway. What is the big industrial adventure of this century? That's what we think we should focus the Norwegian economy a lot more on. On the other hand, I am very concerned about the workplaces. I'm probably sharing an engagement with a lot of other parties and a lot of other representatives. There I believe that there are unsafe jobs we now provide when we are increasing investment in fossil energy, and that a large investment in green industries that could create green demand in the supply industry is much more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1519	I'd like to say a little bit about aging, MDG's proposal in its alternative package here in revised: the party reverses the entire grant to Avinor – over 4 billion. kr. It's a grant that's important to create activity across the country, to secure jobs and value creation around. Planes are the collective offer in the districts in the same way as trains, tracks and buses are in the larger cities. Why is the MDG so little concerned with District Norway when it's after all where the greatest values of the community are created?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1524	In fact, the Greens are quite grateful to the districts. We're much bigger in the districts than we are in the Stortinget. The Green Party is now a medium-sized party around the municipality and county of Norway, a small party on the Stortinget. We're going to do something about that in 2021. I believe that aviation policy should be aimed at ensuring good services where it is to function as a collective offer. So it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's We have great respect for that. We want to set up state support schemes for the aviation industry in a way that ensures that offer, but we do not want a transport policy that contributes to more flights than the Nordics already have. Right now there is a special time, but we do not want to go back to a situation we had before the Corona crisis, where Norway is at the top of the world on flights – many times more flights in Norway than in most European countries as well. I think we can do something about that through a much stronger investment on the railway, where there is a good alternative. But we also need to look at all sorts of other solutions. And electrification of air transport is also part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1537	Greenhouse gas emissions in Norway decreased by 3.4 pst. last year. And we have many goals – 50 pst. By 2030 we'll do a reduction with the EU, we'll cut 50 pst. from shipping, we shall only sell a zero-emission vehicle in 2025. Last week, the Stortinget also took an important decision to reduce the emissions from the petroleum sector by 50 pst. by 2030. So it requires electrification, floating sea winds, it requires a dramatic improvement of the ship's emissions cut over the ten years in order to reach it. The representative of Bastholm spends a lot of time on why she was against that decision on the petroleum tax regime last week. On the left, we can agree that the government's proposal was better than what was finally adopted, but the representative still agrees that the decision on 50 pst. reduction in the petroleum sector is a good decision? This will lead to innovation and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1544	Yes. In isolation, it is absolutely necessary as long as we have an oil and gas industry and have extraction on a Norwegian base, that it is as environmentally friendly as possible, even though the emissions from the extraction of oil and gas itself, which is therefore coming from the base, both I and the representative Elvesuen are very marginal in relation to the emissions that come when fossil energy is burned. For this reason, I still believe that Norway has a great responsibility to phase out the extraction of Norwegian oil and gas and not to try to compete with renewable energy in Europe's markets, where it is now to move away from coal. So I would say that when it comes to sea wind, I think we need an interpellation to the harvest of it. I do not think it is a good idea for Norway to focus on spreading the offshore wind farms up northwards in our seas, but we must try to concentrate them on areas in the south that are closer to the market that the power to supply is Europe. So I mean, for example. not that it is true that the State supports electrification of our platforms, even if there is sea wind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1552	Then the representative Bastholm agrees that this is a good decision, and then it is about how to get this kind of decision. These are the debates that we have here. My question is then: if you do not want to enter into negotiations which also deal with the tax system, such as for petroleum, how does the representative see that it is possible to obtain that type of decision of 50 pst. reduction? We are totally dependent on that to achieve our goals and to achieve that technology development. Does she agree that it is important as a party to be involved in negotiations, or is it more important to be outside and clean?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1559	Here I think the representative Elvestuen knows my position very well, I'm clear about that. The Green Party's ambition is to be in charge more. We're doing a lot of work around our cities. We're in charge of all the big cities in Norway. We're making compromises, but I've also been thinking about it lately. representatives from the Left are very interested in highlighting it – how they themselves are involved in making compromises and we are not. I can praise the Left for participating in some compromises at the expense of the environment in a number of cases – I regret that. That's what you often do. I believe that the kind of demands you have made now, or the agreement you have reached on the oil and gas industry, I think should have been a claim from the start. When we have such a massive industry that contributes to large emissions globally, it should be a matter of course that we require it to be done with zero emissions when we have technology for it. The fact that one is at all sitting around a negotiating table and has to discuss it, I believe very much about how far climate and nature policy has come in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1564	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1569	Last week, the Government Parties and the Advance Party agreed on rnb and a new package of measures in relation to the coronary apathy. There was a lot of agreement about the symbolic things of the Progress Party and little about how the country got out of the crisis. We don't need a plan to pave the way for the country, we need a plan to prevent the coronary crisis from intensifying Difference Norway, and a plan for a fair environmental policy. A virus basically doesn't look like poor and rich. We still know that the pandemic has fallen unfairly. The first wave of lay-offs hit the low-paid hardest, and when society was shut down, it went hardest on those who are vulnerable, who are also most dependent on our welfare services. In the last few months, Red and the rest of the Stortinget have been working on immediate emergency measures. The majority have made the necessary changes to the crisis packages originally presented by the government. In this process, red has helped to increase the daily allowance for people who are on leave, who lose their job – not least apprentices, who get their entire education cycle threatened by the crisis – and also put political pressure on banks for faster interest reductions for people who have difficult loans. These reinforced measures have made a significant difference for many people. It has meant several thousand kroner more in daily pay per month because the bulk of the population took hold when the government failed. It means a lot when you have little money to live off for every month. But where the salary has been replaced by the daily allowance for many now in the spring, next year's holiday pay will be replaced by nothing. The injustice suggests Red to correct. We want to reintroduce a holiday supplement for people who go on a daily allowance, which will help ensure that not even the next summer vacation goes for those who are on leave and their families. Unfortunately, during the treatment of spring crisis packages, it has been impossible to include the bulk of the population in the demand for the cessation of dividends for firms receiving emergency aid or the demand for housing leave from rich farmers. We know that hotel kings and property barons such as Petter Stordalen and Christian Ringnes have had solid margins for many good years and also protected the profits from local payrolls and thus from the low-paid employees of the hotels that create the values. When everyone else bleeds, it can't be voluntary for the wealthy among us to participate in the hard work, but there's an imminent danger that government policy will send the bill for the crisis to the workers, while the economic elite will once again be left with the gain. When the government refuses to impose fair conditions for receiving state emergency aid, this must be corrected afterwards, we believe, through special taxes on dividends and profits for those who have earned the crisis. The bill has to be shared fairly. Red therefore proposes to increase the tax on corona yield for the current year. We also propose that, as politicians, we tighten the lifeline and cut our own wages by 20 p.m., and we are in favour of setting down a sample against coronal inequality that should follow the economic differences and accumulation of wealth due to the crisis and make proposals for action against inequality and against unfair profit. The wallpaper is that we know that after previous crises, the differences between people have increased. We're going to try to counter this time. During the hard 30s, the labour movement challenged the savings policies of citizens by promoting increased emergency appropriations for public projects, primary industries and the fight against unemployment. They advocated increased social control of the financial sector and industry and financed measures with increased taxes on wealth and inheritance, cut military operations and increased public money use. There was an active state enterprise policy and job creation that then won over the market liberal savings policy, and that took us out of the crisis. The struggle for how to get out of the crisis we are in now has begun far too far. In May, a government expert committee was set up to draw up a five-year plan for economic countermeasures against the coronary apathy. This selection focuses on banking and finance peaks in central Eastern Europe. The right-hand side has few answers, but is very recognizable in its belief that the crisis is solved by market forces and capitalists. We see this by the fact that the government is now proposing to cut taxes on wealth and finance it by cutting income protection schemes for most people. If there's one thing the crisis shows us, it's how dependent we are on the welfare state security network. Red believes that many of the improvements that have been introduced will be permanent. They should not be taken away immediately when the government needs some billions to finance cuts in property taxes. We must also, we believe, put away the naive belief in market governance and free trade instead of more social governance, self-sufficiency and self-storage. We need short-term solutions that make us less dependent on vulnerable international supply lines, which are also better for the environment and climate. Preparedness costs, but this spring has shown us that it costs more to be as unprepared as Norway turned out to be. Red therefore proposes to invest 3 billion. in order to establish a State emergency stockpiles of food and medicine, to strengthen Norwegian agriculture with subsidies and VAT cuts for fruit and vegetables, and also a government staffing programme to ensure available labour in industry. We also need to create jobs and renovate the infrastructure of the future. Red believes it is important to spend far more billions here and now to start projects that provide assignments to the Norwegian supplier industry. We also want to dissociate 500 billion. kr to an investment fund for environmentally friendly infrastructure and 500 billion. kr to an investment fund for the environmentally friendly industry – this in order to speed up a fair and also controlled transition that facilitates the creation of value throughout the country. Yes, crisis policy costs, but it costs more to get unemployment stuck. And if we don't stop climate change, it will also cost us very, very expensive. So now there are hundreds of thousands of people out of work, and the coronary crisis has also triggered a crisis in an already shaky economy. We are also overtime to halt climate change emissions and reduce vulnerable nature. So we are not only in the midst of a global pandemic, but also in a systemic crisis. If the infection rates go down, the underlying problems will not disappear. In our view, the left-hand side can't really negotiate with the right-hand side about crisis packages. We have to provide a clear alternative to the coronary crisis, increasing class divisions and climate crisis at one and the same time, and it is the backbone that we have presented ‘Red’s Corona programme 2020: work, income and well-being for all. A fairer and short-distance route out of crisis’. The Korona crisis shows us that it is possible to put the consideration of human life and health ahead of economic profit for the few. But then the goal must be that in the future this will be done by social governance and not as a matter of urgency because a pandemic hits us abruptly. We need to control the spread of infection and ensure a future preparedness by strengthening health services and other critical societal functions; we need to reduce inequality and emissions simultaneously and secure income, work and well-being for all through a more fair and short-lived society. We are now seeing how the welfare state is completely fundamentally socially prepared. This is the time to build the Norwegian model for the next century. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1605	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1612	The representative of Moxnes often talks about solidarity. For me, solidarity between generations is a basic political plank. While it has been important — and worth it — to spend a lot of money saving jobs today to avoid bankruptcy in the future, a responsible fiscal policy has also been important. I feel that most of the parties in this room agree, but not so with Red. In this round, Red proposes to spend 50 billion dollars. kr more than the government, with deposits from the oil fund. Furthermore, I have registered that Red in an article in the class struggle on 4 June proposes to use 1000 billion. kr from the oil fund. So even if this happened over time, it would drain the fund for approx. 10 pst. of the values. Does the representative of Moxnes not agree that the fund should grow for future generations, so that they will have the same opportunities as we have had?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1619	Red wants to invest parts of our oil fund in future value creation in Norway – not only buy shares in Facebook and Google, not only buy trades in London, but also invest some of the money in future value creation in Norway, which is badly needed. We're going to become a less oil- and gas-dependent nation in the future, also to fight the climate crisis. Then we need new legs to stand on. Industry must then be developed, and capital, long-term capital, is also needed to develop new industries that are also sustainable from a climate perspective. That is the background to our proposal. So the use of Red's money is about that. on 4.6 pst. by the oil fund, while the government is at 4,2 p.m., so that's not a very different thing right there. But with regard to the long-term visions, of course, Red's arrangement is far more ambitious than the government's, which will primarily give a nation of interest. On the contrary, we want to build an industrial nation for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1626	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1631	In the last three months, there has been considerable uncertainty and demanding decisions both for individuals, businesses and for us – government and big business. Job No one has been controlling the development of infection. At the same time, it has been about putting in place measures to help those who have been hit financially. The dramatic outbursts of the Norwegian economy came quickly and hit many – businesses, families and communities throughout the country. Unemployment has risen to a very high level. There are signs that might indicate that we now have the worst part behind us. The activity of the Norwegian economy is on its way up. The oil price has risen, and the adornment of infectious diseases has helped many to return to work, in all industries and throughout the country. The decline in unemployment has risen faster than we saw in the revised national budget. Compared to the holiday stop on 7 April, there are now 128 000 fewer people in the leave queue at Nav. Norway’s Bank expects housing prices to rise both this year and next year, after predicting a decrease a month ago. But it's still too early to report the Norwegian economy. 1 out of 20 people in the workforce still have no job. Uncertainty about future developments is unusual. If we get a new wave of infection and once again have to shut down large parts of the Norwegian economy, the economic activity will also decrease again. Nevertheless, we have learned a lot in recent months about how different measures work. Therefore, we are much better equipped to deal with the situation if the infection is to flare up again. In addition, the development of the situation in other countries is of great importance to Norway. Globally, you have a long way left to get control of the virus. In our main trading partners, the level of activity has fallen significantly this year. International decline will affect Norwegian export businesses and slow growth in the Norwegian economy. If we experience increased protectionism in the wake of the coronary crisis, the negative consequences will be reinforced. It has been necessary and appropriate to meet the economic downturn with comprehensive measures, although it has given rise to a sharp increase in oil money use – necessary because in this way we can mitigate the decline, correctly because we now see how the measures have helped those who have been hit. The measures have provided income and safety for workers, and they have helped to help healthy businesses through the crisis, so that they can create jobs and growth even when the crisis is over. The government's proposal for a revised national budget and out-of-flight measures involve a use of oil revenues of nearly 425 billion. kr in year. That's an increase of 181 billion. kr since the balance of the budget. It's equal to 4.2 pst. by the capital of the State pension fund abroad at the beginning of the year. The budget time pulse is estimated to be 5.3 pst. of trend GDP for mainland Norway. Together with the Progress Party, the proposals have been further reinforced, with a little over 4 billion. in 2020. The use of oil money is now at a historically high level, but in line with the intention of the rule of action to spend more in bad times. Nevertheless, it is necessary to recall that crisis measures should be precisely that of measures in the crisis. The measures shall be phased out, and the Storting joins today for some adjustments, inter alia. in the permitting legislation, the re-introduction of employer’s financing of allowances for care allowances and the phasing out of the business compensation scheme. When the economy improves, we have to go back to the 3-percentile line for oil money. It is important to ensure that oil money will also benefit future generations, but also to have economic muscles the next time an economic crisis strikes us. When measures to protect the disease are facilitated and the economy improved, it is also necessary to amend them. We can't keep solving the crisis that was yesterday. We need to adapt the measures to the picture as it looks now, and to the developments we want for Norway and for Norwegian businesses in the future. With the outlook for Norway’s exit from the crisis, the government marked the transition to Phase 3 in the work on economic measures. Now we have to get the wheels of the Norwegian economy back on track, while maintaining control of the infection. Therefore, it is necessary to adjust several of the measures already in place. Some are to be phased out already this summer. Phase 2 out during the autumn. At the same time, we need new measures so that we can create more and include more. The measures we are now taking should both help us out of the crisis and help us solve the long-term challenges for Norway, whether it's about the green shift, or it's about including more people in the labour market, so that more people can participate and contribute to creating growth, values and well-being. In the government's strategy for the road further, we have five clear objectives: We're gonna get people back to work. we need to ensure that we get more legs to stand on and grow in private business We shall create a green future. we shall implement the Education Commitment 2020 We have to include more, because anyone who can work will have the opportunity to do it. The measures we have proposed and the agreement with the Progress Party will help us to achieve these objectives. We're launching a new payroll support scheme for companies that are taking back their leave this summer. We propose a power roof for the maintenance of state and municipal buildings. We are focusing on green migration and measures for years to come. We have presented a comprehensive business start-up package and are proposing improvements to the option scheme for start-ups. We make it easier to invest in our own business and have several measures to strengthen Norwegian private ownership. We open several places of study at colleges, colleges and universities and strengthen the possibilities of secondary education for the graduates and the unemployed. It is important that those who have been permitted, or are unemployed, can strengthen their skills and strengthen their opportunities in the labour market. We strengthen vocational and vocational training and increase the apprenticeship grant. We come up with measures to increase the skills of those with the least education, and we strengthen integration work and continue inclusion. The last three months have been special and extremely demanding for many. But they have also shown that in Norway, people, social partners and politicians stand together when it comes to it, and that we are able to take the necessary action quickly. These measures will be crucial for how we get through this crisis – crucial for the survival of as many of the companies that are otherwise healthy and viable, for as much as possible to have a job to go to, and for us as a society not only to return to everyday life but to the future. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank Stortinget for the quick and effective handling of the matters we have submitted. I would like to thank the parties for good and constructive cooperation, for discussions, but also good proposals and decisions, which have enabled us even better to resolve the crisis we are still facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1683	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1688	First of all, I would like to thank you for your cooperation in what has been a difficult time. But I also have some questions relating to the management of the economic part of the crisis itself. When the first crisis package was presented on 13 March, the government also wrote about its plan for managing the crisis. It was divided into three phases, and we are now dealing with the crisis package that constitutes phase 3 of the handling. For the Labour Party, it has always been important to contribute to more social justice, including in crisis response. There is some reason why we have been the drivers of income security for ordinary people and exchange restrictions for national citizens. The interesting thing is, however, that the government's description of the three phases of crisis management does not refer to social justice in a single word. It is mentioned for the first time on page 9 of the first crisis package and will be repeated. In fact, the word "justice" is not mentioned once in the first crisis packages, so it does not appear to be part of the government's analysis or plan. That's what I'm asking. I want the Minister of Finance to explain why social justice was not part of the government's planned crisis management.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1702	At that point, the representative is wrong. It's been fundamental to the government all the way. Then it points both from the representative now and in several other posts on the first package. Let me just remind you that it was written and done before Norway was shut down. At the same time as we presented it, we announced that we were starting work on new packages and new measures, both to provide safety for workers and not least to keep companies liquid through the crisis. The first weekend, when the parties sat and negotiated on the Stortinget and strengthened the government's proposal and contributed to many other new good measures to create security, we were working on new measures that could help companies stay liquid through the crisis, among other things. 100 B.C.E. kr related to loan guarantees and debt securities. There has been a good job here from both government and growth to provide safety for workers and businesses through this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1709	Then I understand that social justice has been important to the Minister of Finance, it has only been kept secret, so it has not been mentioned in public documents as important, it has not been mentioned as important when one has done well for the three phases of crisis management. Thus, when one presented the first crisis package, one did not provide any income protection proposals for either self-employed, apprentices, low-paid or quarantined children, i.e. social justice measures, despite the fact that the crisis package was presented after the closure. I have suggested that the Minister of Health, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister talk together, including in connection with closure, so that one can dimension the measures in line with it. It was also the case that the first crisis package was presented without contact with the employee page. It could have contributed to increasing social justice. One only had contact with the employer page. I think most people see that the government - the right government - has been pushed into place by the opposition in this context. So I almost have to ask again: if social justice was important, why hasn't it been mentioned at any time as part of the three phases of crisis management?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1720	It may also be that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties use a little different words to describe the measures we are taking. I believe that the measures are being implemented, which is the central one. The measures taken jointly by the government have contributed to the protection of workers' incomes, they have contributed to the security of families, they have helped to prevent the crisis from becoming too deep, and they have helped to save jobs. That's the central one. Now that we have put in place a strategy for Norway's way out of the crisis, inclusion, integration, ensuring that those with the weakest links with the world of work are not being pushed out, is a central part of the government's strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1727	It has really gone away from Stortinget this spring, and I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the cooperation. A lot has gone fast. One of the things that's gone very fast was to put in place the compensation system, which came into place in a very short time. It was set to cost 50 billion. And you see that that's how far the payments are about 2.5 billion. kr. Now I have to stress that the Progress Party has no goal of spending as much money as possible, but after the feedback to judge, it is at least clear that this scheme may not meet as well as many people here in Stortinget wanted. Now, in this agreement with the government parties, we both have to eliminate the excess, that we need to look at the seasonal business system, that we also have to bear in mind that not everything in seasonal companies happens outside, but that something can happen inside. I wonder: Is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the scheme, and what will he do to make it better and more accurate?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1736	Yes, I'm happy with the arrangement, and it came into place at record speed. While other countries, such as Denmark, has talked a lot about manual processing, we got an automated solution in place in just a few weeks, and we got it in place after a close collaboration with LO, NHO, Works and many other organisations. So far, 42 000 enterprises — 42 000 enterprises — have received assistance and support. But when we presented the solution, I was crystal clear that here it has to get money out quickly was more important than millimeters of justice. I also record that many people say that they have not received enough, or that they have not come in, but it is now such that when you need an automated solution, there are also limits to how many adjustments you can make. I have sent letters to the committee and made it quite clear that further changes would lead to the whole system possibly breaking down. Now we're going to phase out this arrangement. It shall apply from August. Now we need to focus on measures that can bring up the activity, not measures that were adapted to a situation where Norway was shut down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1741	Yes, we're going to phase out the scheme. Now we still don't know what the world's going to look like for the harvest, and there's also reason to follow it closely. Now, through a summer in which we hope that many of the companies that have worn out heavily, not least in the tourism industry, can take back some of the lost, get income through the summer that can help to secure their situation. But what it's going to be like in the fall is nobody knows, and I wonder what the Minister of Finance is now thinking about doing in the summer to follow up on what's going on, and what assessments he's doing, for example. of the need to look at permitting schemes, which we receive many feedback from companies that we believe should be expanded.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1746	Already next Thursday, next week, I'm going to meet the social partners and also SMB Norway, and that's precisely because we now need feedback and assessments from the employees' side, from the companies, from business organisations about what challenges they see coming after the summer. Because I fully agree that there is an extremely high degree of uncertainty, and therefore we are so closely following business, how it evolves in different communities, precisely in order to be well calm and well protected both on the analysis side and on the action side when the harvest comes. We are also following developments in permitting schemes. We have already notified that we are going to look at early in the autumn. It is not that the government will now wait until October, when the budget comes, no, we are ready to come forward with proposals for the Storting when the time comes. However, the measures adapted to a situation where Norway was closed down now need to be adjusted, for Norway is now open, and then we also need measures that can bring the activity up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1753	Finance Minister Jan Tore Sanner from the Right uses as a sort of excuse that he said in March that there were weaknesses in the system, but that it was important to get it in place quickly. I don't think of it as an excuse. That was an exodus, because already in the debate in March we were quite clear that there were injustices in the system. The size also decided – and the whole population said – that it would be wrong for us to reward leasing/rent versus the more traditional: ownership and depreciation. It was a big decision, and Sanner said in the debate that he saw the weakness himself. My opinion is that it seems that the government is a little tired, and that when it has been adopted, one does not have the energy to go into it. But it seems fundamentally unreasonable. Take, for example: the plant company for which I have the accounts: they have four large machines, which they own, and because they own the four large machines, they lose 80 000 kroner per month compared to if they had leased. Why do you have to have such a scheme that a small construction company loses NOK 80000 per month because they own – private, safe ownership – instead of leasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1760	I would like to ask the representative if he has read the letters I have sent to the committee, where I have pointed out just why the government has not made any further changes to the compensation scheme. We have done something; we have, for example, the reduction in the proportion of holdings — and now it is completely removed — and also the scheme for seasonal holdings. But this is about the capacity in tax. I am aware that parties in Stortinget have not taken seriously the warnings that have come about Nav. I have also warned about taxes. For the core competence that is now working on the compensation scheme, other control tasks have been transferred, which is a core task for the tax haven, and there are competences that cannot be picked up in the market. This is not about being tired, it's not about excuses, it's about harsh realities. And if the representative has not read the letters I sent to the committee, where I warned about this, I will ask the representative to do so. Yeah, that's unfair. Yes, there are weaknesses in the system, but it has been important to get it in place. There are 42 companies that have received support, and this has secured and saved jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1767	At least the government must be honest in saying that it is absolutely wrong that the most cautious, the most conservative business people, who own their own business, who own their own plant machines, and who have used their own private capital, should not get help. While if you're a little bit rougher -- it's an honest form too -- and leases and rents, you get help. There are no good and factual arguments for that, that we, or the state – with Jan Tore Sanner and Right at the head – should stimulate more to leasing than to traditional ownership. And if Sanner thinks that's right, then he's going to defend it, that he thinks leasing is much better. If not, the government now has to see that we have to try to do something about this, and possibly give the recurring force. So then I give Jan Tore Sanner a try: Why does Sanner think – purely professionally – that it is wiser that people lease than you own, and why should we give more support to those who lease, than to those who own and operate traditionally and conservatively?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1774	Honor be the representative of that commitment. I have a lot of respect for it. And I've also made it clear that here there's not necessarily any professional arguments as to why one is inside and the other is out. There may be issues of demarcation, and the risk of abuse may be a justification, but it is primarily that further changes to the compensation scheme could lead to the collapse of the whole system. I do not want to take that responsibility, because I am concerned that companies will receive support – and this is just one of many, many schemes. Now it's important that we look forward to the challenges we're going to solve in addition to the summer and the harvest. The business compensation scheme was designed for the situation in which Norway was shut down. Now Norway is opening up, now the activity is coming back, and then it is important that we facilitate – yes – Norwegian private ownership and activity and employment. That is why we are now also getting the payroll scheme, which is going to get the permit back to work faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1780	In the wake of economic crises, economic differences are increasing. Those who have the least initially often get less or stay standing, while those who already have the most can subtract. And yes, we see that those who are richest are getting richer. We saw this after the financial crisis in a lot of countries. Those who owned enterprises and financial institutions received state aid that also helped to increase their own wealth, while many workers have not yet recovered financially after that crisis. We also see this picture in Norway. So in the extension of what the representative Tajik also raised, my question to the Government Council is that the government has at all an objective in its work that the economic differences should not increase in this crisis. I could not hear that the Council of State was in the very perspective of its contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1789	The answer to that question is yes. It's a very important goal that we avoid increasing differences. We need to ensure that, through this crisis, we help those who have the weakest connection to the world of work to get help and support to get back to work. That's why one of the most important strategies in our way out of the crisis is inclusion, and it's about integration. Many of the groups that have the weakest connection to the world of work are at risk of being sustained if we do not have clear measures to help them get back to work. So our work both on getting off the job and getting laid back on the job are the most important steps to help keep a society with little differences, a society with trust and cohesion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1796	I thank you for your answer and am pleased that the Council of State confirms that the government has a clear objective that the differences will not increase in this crisis. But then the question becomes to the Minister of Finance how he believes that the policy that the government is now pursuing is actually based on that objective. Once again, when the government will implement a cut in the wealth tax, as we know, targeted tax cuts to the richest, which have helped to increase differences in Norway over the last few years, when the government already announces that the crisis is against those with the lowest wages, when you remove and close the income insurance schemes that Stortinget got in place just to have a more social security network face up to this crisis, and when very many now feel an uncertainty about whether they really have a job to do after the summer, and the government will not extend the permit law – how does that policy go against that objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1801	It is not right that we remove arrangements for employees. The only ones we remove arrangements for are business, by now removing and phasing out the business compensation system. We reintroduce the days paid by the employer on leave from 1 September for new and also for the payment of the care allowance. I registered that the representative in a post in Stortinget last week just pointed out that once the government has notified us that we are going to reduce the discount on the most expensive dwellings, it will help to increase the investment in Norwegian jobs. Then it must also be that increasing the discount on working capital will lead to more people investing in Norwegian jobs. It's a confession from SV that I hope you stand by. For us, it is important that we secure Norwegian jobs. It's important that people have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1810	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1815	It's been a dramatic year, and we've repeated that in many of the posts here. I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance for a good cooperation. Many have reacted faster than we have been used to, and the Storting has been open to cooperation. But I want to repeat here, as after the Prime Minister's statement, that the heroes of this society are those out there who have been in the front line and met the crisis: the hospitals, the hospitals, the schools, the transport, the cleaning team. It's the Norwegian model in practice, and I think about late evenings here that what we do through our decisions is to enable them to do the important, decisive job. At the same time, we are not untouched. More than 300000 are wholly or partially available. What concerns me in particular is that many people have been subjected to consultations and treatment. Many children have not received follow-up. There are big tasks waiting. Those who were exposed have become more vulnerable: the elderly have been isolated and lonely, and children in unstable homes have suffered wounds that can become difficult to heal. Therefore, the question from the representative Tajik to the Minister of Finance is crucial for the Workers' Party. It's about contributing to a social profile of the actions we're doing, because we know that the most vulnerable are the most vulnerable and get worse out of a crisis like this. The fact that no one should stand alone has been our overall policy objective, and we will continue to do so even when we make our budgets. After many packages, a revised budget and a policy-recognizable action plan have been adopted. The dividing lines are back. The budget follows a wide range of government budgets that, in our opinion, take us towards a more unfair Norway, with increasing differences. Priority is given to tax cuts, while at the bottom of the table they have lost purchasing power and social arrangements. We know that from previous budgets, and now the pattern is there again. It is a budget which, therefore, is a priority in terms of wealth taxes, while at the same time nearly 800 000 people, according to research carried out by SIFO, will have significant economic problems and may be in deep debt over time. The first-line defence in this crisis and in the follow-up to well-being and meeting with a new crisis, the municipalities, are now preparing to tighten up budgets and cutbacks. One third of the municipalities say to the media that they assess the permissiveness of those we have hailed as heroes. It's bad housekeeping. We're concerned that the time off should be fixed, that the differences should increase even more, and that the municipalities should have to renovate on their offers that people sorely need. We can't let that happen, and that's why the Workers' Party has, from the first package, taken sides with ordinary people at work, secured full pay for permanent workers, improved income protection for freelancers and self-employed workers, and much more. Often, the government says that it has got through for its packages – sometimes it says, in some cases, ‘in cooperation with the Stortinget’. The last thing is necessary, because the Storting has changed on these packages. In our alternative budget, we are expanding the permitting mechanisms – I hear the Minister of Finance saying he will consider it, but only the signal that it has not been done is negative out there. Permits shall not end as expeditious terminations. We prioritize, for this first line defense, an unusually high amount – 6 billion. kr more to the municipalities. The welfare state shall be there when necessary, not cut into and imposed efficiency targets that do not belong in hospitals and kindergartens. The fact that Norwegian industry in the NHO is now saying that we should introduce efficiency requirements from the process industry in school, care and hospitals does not belong anywhere in Norway. It just makes us weaker. The Prime Minister said when it came to the infection measures in March, that it is better to press properly to the start and then drop something up afterwards. The same should apply to the economy and to measures against municipalities. If we're going to hang out now, we're going to have to go after measures while the time off is getting stuck at a high level. We can get big and growing social differences, and we will weaken the quality of the Norwegian society that we've drawn alternates on. We prioritise more money to get business going in the economy. We want a stronger commitment to the climate industry. We're going to keep the construction industry going, and we're going to prioritize money for it. A good community economy is also a contribution to demand by solving small and large tasks in the municipality, and one in seven Nordics actually works in the municipality. Through seven state budgets, the right-wing government has underfunded the health services and the municipalities, while the income of the community has been weakened by large tax cuts to them with the most already. None of the proposals put forward have been aimed at social justice for vulnerable workers or general families. The first package was not even discussed with the social partners. We need to reverse this, and the Labour Party – as my colleagues have explained – will change its path and present an alternatively revised budget for a fairer Norway, working for everyone in a safe and organised working life, in a welfare country that is independent of residence and economy, and with a fair climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1840	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1845	I would like to start by thanking Mr Gahr Støre for a very good and constructive cooperation this spring, especially in connection with the first two crisis packages and the oil tax package. There has been important cooperation for jobs, for activity throughout Norway and for the transition to the low-carbon society to which Norway is going. In this collaboration, Gahr Støre has stressed that we need to listen to business, both employees and owners. He has been clear that the grips were necessary for jobs, and the party has even argued that reduced taxes can create more jobs. But then Gahr Støre is back to that everything is normal. Then my question is, is it also the normal thing to expect, as in the last seven years, where the Workers' Party proposes to increase taxes on business when we go into the harvest? The working party wants to increase by 10 billion. SEK, SV by 22 billion. kr, Environmental Party of the Greens by 31 billion kr and Rødt by 40 br. kr. Is this cooperation the starting point for Gahr Støre's work in the future and to help Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1852	No, it's a caricature I don't know about. Let me first say that what we did with the oil tax package was to use the Community's instruments to defer taxes in such a way that the companies that are set up and are going to invest get a payoff. And I've already seen that the welder lights are on. Wide range of wealth tax laws, which are the recipe of this government, have no documented effect, but differences in Norway significantly increase driven by different wealth developments, and then it is right to think fair taxation in relation to it. Our packages to stimulate activity in Norwegian business and employment go far beyond taxes. They are moving towards activities that create investment, environmental technology rates and enable industry and industrial workers to develop new technologies so that we can live by saving the climate, cutting emissions and creating jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1859	It is very good that the Workers' Party and Jonas Gahr Støre talk very much about the oil tax union we got. It may be worth remembering that it was not quite easy to see what the Workers' Party really meant in the days we were sitting and negotiating about it, but I am glad that the Workers' Party came into place. But what I don't understand is why the Workers' Party draws such a clear distinction between relief in the petroleum tax, which the companies themselves did not ask for, and giving relief in the wealth tax to all the small family-run businesses around this country that ask for it. I understand that the Workers' Party believes that this has no documented effect, but the Workers' Party therefore chooses to listen to the industry and the oil companies' need to make changes in the petroleum tax, but they will not listen to the thousands of small business owners around the country who actually depend on being able to reinvest their capital in order to secure jobs and businesses. Why is there so much winging in these questions in the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1866	I am very pleased with that question and hope that it will come. The point was, when we landed, it was because of the Labour Party's efforts. The progress party was a maximumist and did everything they were told about, over the phone from the outside, while we wanted to find a solution that 1) documented could give activity, and that 2) could gather a wide majority. We did it. But it was just when we got to the level when it was free income, that we were sure that there would be activity, and that the different projects would come, that we said, "Here we can land." This may end up with a revenue ceiling for the State through tax. At the same time, I think there's going to be a lot of income for the community because we're keeping an industry going. Then we are sure that the instrument works. But the overall tax relief that goes to everyone with a fortune above a certain level, where you can't document whether the money goes for saving, a new holiday trip or for anything else of consumption, is not targeted, not limited in time, and it doesn't have any effect. That's why the Workers' Party is not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1874	What Gahr Støre calls a maximumist solution was a solution that would cost the state – the taxpayers – zero dollars. Similarly, the Workers' Party insisted on a solution that would cost 8 billion in real terms. kr. Money you didn't have to spend, and that you could have spent on many other important purposes – tax relief, strengthening the local economy or whatever it might be – but the Workers' Party chose to use 8 billion as a priority. kr on it. We were involved because we wanted a solution for the industry, but the Labour Party's preferred solution cost 8 billion. kr more. I think that's nice. This suggests that there is considerable disagreement within the Workers' Party on tax matters. We have seen the internal debate in the Workers' Party on petroleum taxation, where there are obviously many different forces that are pulling in the opposite direction. We've seen the same thing about taxes on wealth. The representative Trond Giske, for example, has in many ways spoken much warmer for property taxes than the representative Gahr Støre does. The question will then be: Will we also in future see this turn from the Workers' Party on tax issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1883	The representative Jensen can wing at his own pace. As far as the tax system for oil companies is concerned, we actually agreed with the government parties she secures a majority here in the Stortinget, because we chose to land on a model that did not waste that tax system and that did not impose corporate tax in a way that could create precedent in many other contexts. I think it was representatives of the right government party who said – that was not my words, but I think they are quite comprehensive – well, if it has over eight years a price tag of 8 billion. kr, it's actually worth it, rather than letting a tax system tear up. But what we land – the free-income solution – has documented the effect: it's going to be activity. I've seen it myself, and it's positive. I believe even the representative Jensen saw it from Verdal on a video screen at Stortinget – she was breathtaking, where she spoke to the assembly from Stortinget. The point is, we have to pick the tools that work and hit. We do not choose instruments that increase differences and that do not trigger investment. It's crazy politics and not a policy The Workers' Party is going to choose. I think that Trond Giske is very much in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1894	It is quite right that I was on a screen from Stortinget, because unlike Gahr Støre, we negotiated the revised national budget and package 3, which has given strong reinforcements, which were absolutely necessary, and which are also about a view of business and taxation. I noticed that the representative Gahr Støre did not respond to what I asked for. I am asking about the internal disagreement that obviously exists in the Labour Party in view of different tax issues. As regards the petroleum tax solution, we have seen that there are many forces in the Workers' Party that disagree with what the Workers' Party has landed on. Can we be sure that the Workers' Party stands by the agreement that has been reached when there are such strong counter-powers in the Workers' Party? There are obviously equally strong counter-forces in the Workers' Party with regard to the view on property taxes and other tax reliefs. Does the Workers' Party stand firm in its ambition to increase the tax burden in Norway by billions of dollars, or will there be forces in the Workers' Party that may draw more towards giving relief, in line with the expectations of large parts of Norwegian industry in the time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1905	I believe that people with normal and lower incomes should receive tax relief, within a system that keeps the income tax almost neutral. It would be an unusual gesture, but maybe I should – invite the representative Siv Jensen to a group meeting in the Workers' Party. There's not one person who's voting to cut the taxes on wealth. This is not a debate on it. The Workers' Party is responsible for safe taxes. In the case of oil tax fluctuations, the representative, Siv Jensen, represents a party that wanted to release all oil and gas to foreign companies at first, and which has had a completely different view of the device – the laborious construction of a petroleum fund and the tax ego, which has lasted over time. They put in government for some years, but I have no lessons to learn from Siv Jensen's straightness in the view of tax, petroleum and the triggering of investments. There we have a good policy to follow. We adapt our system. Tariffs should not increase, but they may widen, we close gaps, increase the income base and secure the Community's income, while at the same time it is redistributive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1912	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1917	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank my good colleagues here in the United Kingdom for good and creative cooperation in event-rich Korona months. There has been policy development in express travel: propositions that have been written at great speed under heavy pressure, and treatment in Stortinget at express train speed, even at rocket speed. But I think the results have largely been good for the objectives of joint actions that can help people and businesses in a situation no one would have seen as we entered 2020. This also shows a unique characteristic of Norway. Some call it shipper's roof, some call it hard -- I'll call it cohesion. We stand together when it comes to it, even though we are basically fundamentally disagreeable at many points in the day-to-day. The Korona epidemic turned everything upside down. Extensive protection measures, both at home and outside, lead to a sharp decline in the value creation of the Norwegian economy. The measures in the revised budget and the Norwegian Roadmap of the crisis are based on the powerful packages that have been put in place to help people and businesses through the demanding period of time we are in. On 29 May, the government presented what is called Phase 3 – Norway’s way out of the crisis. At this stage, we have to get the wheels of the Norwegian economy going well again, while the infection does not come out of control. In its work on the strategy, the government has relied on expert advice and on input from organisations and businesses. There are five main pillars of this strategy: get people back to work ensure multiple legs to stand on creating a green future enhancing competence through the implementation of the education and training promise 2020; include more Norway has a better starting point than many others. Before the crisis, we had high employment, low unemployment, high productivity, robust banks and a well-functioning economy. Norway has a resilient business and high trust in society. We have to use this opportunity to make the economy even better able to renew itself. Therefore, measures have been put in place that contribute to the necessary conversion and green growth. The 3.6-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr will contribute to green growth. The aim is that business will create green jobs in a more sustainable future. Many businesses have gone from full operation to zero operations almost overnight. Government policy aims to ensure that the most viable jobs would survive the crisis. Then we have to help companies get started all over the country, and more lay-outs come back to work, while ensuring more legs to stand on. The creation of new jobs does not matter. For the right, it has been important that the measures adopted today ensure that growth comes in the private sector, not in the public sector. I record that the leader of the Workers' Party called the NHO recording about investing in job creation in the private sector for old-fashioned. I totally disagree with that. Now we need jobs that contribute to value creation and tax revenue, so that there is room to continue investing in education, a safe health care and a worthy care for the elderly. In this way, we ensure that future generations will have equal opportunities as we do. Anyone who can work should work. While creating new jobs, we need to avoid people falling out of work permanently. In the future, we need to help get more people to work. Many are now unemployed or out of work because of the coronary crisis. Past crises have taught us that we need to provide education and school to prevent people from staying out of work. We have to make sure that those who are unemployed today get the skills that business needs tomorrow. Today, we adopt solutions that contribute to jobs and activity without losing sight of the long-term perspective. The challenges ahead of the crisis will be at least as strong when they are over. Uncertainty about further development is high, especially in the year and next year. We don't know if we get any new contagion waves, we don't know when the vaccine is ready, we don't know how the oil price will develop. The only thing we know is that more competence, better education and more adaptability are necessary regardless of development. We see that unemployment is shrinking downwards, but we don't know how fast it will sink. We also do not know whether we are going back where we were before the corona broke in, or whether we need to prepare for a new normal situation. This uncertainty means that we need to be prepared to adapt economic policies along the way. It is important that the government signals dialogue with the employees’ and employers’ organisations about the different schemes. With the government's actions and agreement with the Progress Party, we will contribute to activity throughout the country, green change and growth in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1960	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1965	When Stortinget dealt with the business compensation scheme, the message from the government parties and the Progress Party was that it was totally irrelevant to do something about the proportion that hit the small businesses particularly hard. We are very pleased that the majority have let themselves be pushed to change, so that it has now been removed. It should have been done retrospectively, but at least it's good that it's gone. Today, the majority insist that the seasonal scheme should not include tourist hotels, whether in Hemsedal, Geilo or other places in Norway. Is there a point of view that is going to stand firm, or can there still be hope that the tourist hotels will be included as seasonal establishments, as the Stortinge assumption was?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1972	It's not like that in the difficult situation we've been in, that we dogmatically say that things can't change. We've said all along that we're going to look at the arrangements, we're going to evaluate the arrangements. Now we've made a change for the proportion that makes sense. Yeah, the Center Party pointed to the earlier, but the Center Party also has a pretty big wallet. We need to constantly assess the measures, continuously, whether they are correct and whether they are taking them. I believe that travel is facing very great challenges. I am not sure that taking the tourist hotels into the seasonal business system is the right measure, but I am concerned that we find arrangements that make travel life well. We may not have found the right measures yet. It may have to be adjusted in the future as well. I am occupied with the hotels in Hallingdal, which Gælsvik naturally pointed to, but also in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1979	When Stortinget adopted the compensation scheme, a frame of 50 billion was set. kr. At the time of writing, 5 pst is used. of which, approx. 2.5 B.C.E. kr. This isn't about who has the biggest wallet. It's about caring for some of those who have the smallest wallet. So I'm glad, as I said, that the proportion is now being removed, but there should also have been further action for the small businesses. However, it is completely incomprehensible to understand how one has come into the situation that a seasonal model has been set up in which the condition that one has to operate fully or partially outdoors, or in close proximity, such as that. a restaurant located in the middle of the ski hill can get it. Talking about the capacity of the tax rate will make it really more difficult both to develop the scheme and to comply with the scheme. Why do you not have a general model that could also have been taken care of, among other things. tourist hotels throughout Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1985	We have a general model, that's the compensation system, which works for all companies. Then – as I feel we have had a good cooperation with the Centre Party on – we have also developed a model for especially those areas that were hit hardest when Easter traffic fell away, i.e. the seasonal companies such as ski lifts and others. They have received good help. I believe that the model developed there has been beneficial. But as I say, we have a general scheme for all companies – which also includes hotels. And then we have the seasonal arrangement. There can always be discussion about the criteria for it, but I don't think anyone, either in the Ministry of Finance or here in the Stortinget, can say that you have the fasit for what's right, and whether it seems right. I think we should look at the travel industry. I think the travel and cultural industries may be the two areas that have the greatest and long-term effects of the coronary crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1992	Many smaller and local businesses around our country contribute to the value of reinvestable in local communities. The fact that the compensation scheme is so biased, systematically distorts and so centralizes money. Last week I visited Trysil, one of the really big tourist communities in Norway. There are smaller shops that are totally dependent on all the cabin people who have a place in the municipality for holidays and holidays. And one of the shops we visited is dealing in a slightly special type of clothing that many tourists appreciate. Marlene's happiness is called the company that is locally owned. She must now pledge the house in order to be able to afford to drive on and be in danger of going bankrupt. If that company goes away, local ownership in Trysil will also be gone. How can the representative defend this arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e1997	The smallest and – I was saying – the most remote shops are covered by the Mercury programme, which the government has now strengthened in the context of the Korona crisis. The shops that are not located in places “who would not believe anyone could bow”, but which are at least far from other shops, have received an additional grant in connection with the coronary crisis. But unfortunately, it cannot be such that we here at Stortinget can make arrangements that make any store. There were a lot of shops, even a very big mall that I occasionally go to in the Drama called Gullskogen Zenter, which closed. Everything was closed for the first few weeks. So it's opened up again. And now you say, for example. the sporting industry that they have a record turnover, that they are doing better than ever, for Norwegians are going to leave in their own country. It's sold out for tents. Everyone has to lie in a tent and go for a walk. So this gives a very different look, and I can't guarantee that it would be possible to create a system that hits the exact store in Trysil that the representative has visited.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2002	When people with little money get into a crisis – get sick, lose their jobs and depend on Nav – there are often strict demands to get help from the state. When the government was going to make support arrangements for the companies, which it was absolutely necessary to do, and on which SV was involved, there was a completely different idea. Then it was a matter of having a trust-based arrangement. And so the government has repeatedly refused to make basic social demands related to this support, linked to dividends, linked to the use of tax havens and most importantly, which should be a quite obvious requirement – the requirement of zero dismissals as long as you receive state support, so that the support also benefits workers. Today, government parties abuse once again the chance to do this. Even today's business, in the leadership position, has suggested that there should be such a requirement for zero redundancies. Why is the Right so far to the right of Today's Business?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2009	If you're going to begin to characterize where the Norwegian press is on the scale, I think it's easy for many to get to the right of it. I mean, we've set up a race that's trust-based, yeah. The compensation system, on which we have just had a round, is trust-based, but it is control mechanisms. However, if one were to say that not one company in Norway would be able to make a profit, and not one company would be able to cancel someone during a period when the company might be on the brink of the downside, it would have gone beyond the workforce. That's what would happen. The point is that we must have a dynamic business even if we are in a crisis. We want to help those who can be viable, and it's been widely cared for by Stortinget. SV was probably also involved in these schemes, these packages. We've taken care of it. So when Lysbakken wants to implement his socialist policy – in the shelter of the Korona crisis – we say no.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2016	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2021	I am pleased that the Progress Party has ensured a major and important impact in the revised national budget. The proposal put forward by the government in May was too weak. For us, it has been important that economic activity in the country takes on board, that more people come to work, and that new jobs are created. The decline in society has led to long-term health cows. Even before the corona virus, many people were in health queues in Norway, and it will take a very long time to recover the delay that has now developed. More than 50,000 screening studies are reported and 320,000 fewer patients were treated in hospitals in March and April compared to last year. In the revision, we've had an impact of 600 million. to reduce the costs of follow-up in the health sector. There are few things in life that are more important than our health, and many have now put their lives on hold because they haven't had any studies or operations carried out in the last few months. Cancer treatment, X-rays and MRs, as well as accelerating treatment for patients who may develop chronic diseases, shall be given priority and, in particular, the capacity of the private health care shall be put into service. Private actors are essential for us to take back part of the delays in investigations, treatment and operations. It has been difficult to read and hear about lonely elderly people who have been at home for months without visits and without being able to go out, as well as older people in nursing homes who have not seen their loved ones for months. The fact that we are now securing a 400 million package of measures. kr to the age of the country, as much as we give priority to children and young people, is good. This is money to be spent on combating solitude and raising the supply of nursing homes, as well as helping to improve the quality of life for older people living at home. We believe that older people have been involved in building the welfare community, and although they do not always cry out loud, they definitely deserve to be invested in. We'll help keep the wheels going in society. That's why it's important that we've had an average of about 700 million. kr for new road projects and for the maintenance of road sections throughout the country. The changes to the revisions are now starting small and large road projects across the country. This means several assignments to Norwegian entrepreneurs and workers in the important construction industry. With efforts on the way, we ensure both jobs for people and absolutely necessary maintenance and upgrading of our roads. The Norwegian maritime industry is now in a serious situation. The improvement of the maritime package was an important requirement for the Progress Party in the negotiations. We have now ensured that the ceiling on net pay for the offshore equipment is removed in the last three months of the year. We have been able to double the top-level funding scheme for short sea shipping and fishing vessels to 600 million. kr, which corresponds to the construction of a minimum of six new ships. Originally, the government proposed to start the construction of a new research ship. We have now been given an insight into the construction of two new research ships instead of one, and this, of course, contributes to more activity. The Norwegian maritime industry is very important for the country, both historically, strategically and in the form of the value creation and the jobs generated, and the Progress Party is on the side of the seafarers in both good and bad times. Norwegian seafarers are indispensable for Norwegian shipping and the maritime industry as a whole. With the achievements we have now received in the negotiations, we have received a revised national budget that contributes to more economic activity and that more people come to work. With a total of one billion extra for health and care, we have reduced health cows, combated loneliness among the elderly, and we ensure activity in the construction industry with the start-up of the projects I have just talked about. So it might sound like we've done all the perfect arrangements with this debate. At least the Progress Party does not believe that we have done so. There will still be a need to look at adjustments and make changes in the time ahead, because we do not know the course of the next few weeks and months for the Norwegian economy. Therefore, we must be prepared to make new moves in the time ahead. At least the Progress Party is prepared to contribute, but to stand on this platform and say that you have all the solutions at a time that is very uncertain, at least I won't. But I think it's important that we use the opportunities we have to listen to, to talk to the companies and individuals who have shoes on the outside of Norwegian society, and to do what we can as quickly as we can to make everyday life easier, secure jobs, avoid business going over the top, and help families get the economy around.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2044	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2049	It was a little surprising that Siv Jensen did not spend any time trying to talk about the police or the justice sector. It may be that the Progress Party does not have so much to boast about in that area. Before the Coronacrise, there was a large manslaughter in the police districts. Fortunately, then, the government came with 400 temporary positions to the police districts. It was very good and absolutely necessary. There are settings that we needed without the coronary epidemic. Today, the Labour Party has made a proposal asking the government to extend the temporary posts so that they can be made permanent for 2021. My question to the representative Jensen is whether the Progress Party will vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2056	I figured I'd get a question about it so I could say a little about the Progress Party's view of the justice sector and the bet on it. We have also prioritised that in the negotiations we have conducted. Not least, we're adding more money to the police's National Emergency Response Centre. We are providing a special anti-crime campaign here in Oslo, where we see that crime is taking off farms especially among young people in immigrant environments. And we have a pretty long, proud story from all the years we've been in government. The police and justice sector was one of the areas of activity which received new funds in each budget alone. I think that the Labour Party should also look a little bit in the rearview mirror, because when we took over government responsibility seven years ago, we are relying on a justice sector with long pay queues. And the Labour Party's answer to doing something about it was to let people out before the end of atonement. We did something about it, and we got the cows down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2063	Oi, oi -- here we had to go back a long way to find an answer. I'm sorry, I don't mean to laugh, but it's kind of funny, because my question was really very simple. Will the Progress Party vote in favour of our proposal today that the temporary police posts be made permanent from 2021? Yes or no. Does one think there is a need for 400 more settings also in 2021, or does one not think so? Today has a golden opportunity to vote for it. The party of progress said when they put in government that there was historically good staffing in the police. As soon as they got out of the government, the police were not very well staffed. Husband of the wing. One can correct it today by voting in favour of the proposal we have for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2069	The Progress Party does not waver in justice policy. Rather, on the contrary, we have had a red thread in everything we've done, I might say a blue thread, to strengthen the entire justice sector, both the criminal justice system, the courts and the police. There's nothing funny about that I'm telling you about everything we've done that has contributed to a historic strengthening of the police and the police budgets for years. It's there as a basis. Then the Progress Party has concluded a budgetary agreement with the Government Parties. That's what we're in favour of. That does not mean that we will not continue to strengthen the police framework and budgets in the coming years. Soon there will be a government budget that the Progress Party will probably also put on its image.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2076	I understand that, and that a contract is made. I can formulate myself in a slightly different way: Does the Progress Party believe that these positions are needed? If so, would you be able to work to get it in place in the state budget for 2021, as the Progress Party is likely to be the government's supporting party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2081	If the question is whether the police and the justice sector are fully funded and will not need more money in the future, then the answer to that is no. Of course, we will need to add more resources to the police sector as well. However, unlike the Workers' Party, the Progress Party is able to finance these things by cutting off other areas of the State budget. The Labour Party's response to this is always and exclusively to increase taxes for both ordinary people and businesses. We also heard that in the line change that I had just had with the representative Gahr Støre – The Labour Party’s answer is always to put the suction pipe in other people’s pockets to finance election vows. I think it is possible to reach an agreement between the Progress Party and the Labour Party on strengthening the justice sector, but I never believe that the Labour Party and the Advance Party will agree on how to finance it. Where the Workers' Party tightens taxes, the Advance Party looks for effective cuts in bureaucracy and administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2086	The representative Jensen said that the Progress Party was open for future adjustments. One of the areas in which changes are now made in comparison with the clear assumptions made by the Storting at the time of adoption of the compensation scheme is linked to seasonal holdings. The assumption of the size was that there were enterprises that have large parts of their turnover in a smaller period of the year. Then there was an adjustment, where seasonal holdings were also defined to be enterprises that have all or part of their business outdoors, or enterprises closely related to it. How does it make sense to make such bureaucratic arrangements on the part of the Progress Party, which means that there are many businesses, including the United States and Japan? tourist hotels, which end up on the outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2091	Through all the crisis measures that have been discussed and assessed and to the extent addressed by the Storting, the Progress Party has been committed to raising the challenges facing different parts of our travel businesses. And I believe that through the negotiations we have conducted for the revision, we have contributed to a strong improvement, where we also point to what must be done in the time ahead. As I said in my main post: I don't think any representative in this room should be sceptical that they have the perfect face of what must be done in the time ahead of us. I just think we're going to be a little humiliated so that we're not exactly what's going to happen in the time that's coming. But we need to be able to turn around quickly and put in place reinforced tools when the needs respond. And as the representative, Gülsvik, I can also assure you that I am talking to many of these companies, I get all the recordings, and we have tried to help make significant improvements through the negotiations we have conducted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2098	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2103	At the beginning of the coronary crisis, we had important cross-political cooperation on financial measures. The strength of the size was demonstrated in the examination of the first economic crisis package in March. The proposal by the government was quite weak, but a total expansion made a strong bet possible. It is the profits of the party that the first crisis package came out as well as it did. Then we see later that some decisions have been taken. Other decisions have still not been fully implemented by the government and some decisions have obviously not been implemented in line with the Stortingen’s clear intentions. After two months of broad cooperation on the economic crisis package in Stortinget, however, the government said thank you and goodbye to that kind of cooperation. The revised national budget and the third crisis package brought back the contradictions in Norwegian policy. The Right Party and the Support Party The Advance Party were back in party politics and negotiated a result between themselves that was most likely to be preparations for the right side election campaign. The centre party believes that what we are dealing with today is not sufficient in terms or in terms of equipment. The measures will not be accurate and fair to people throughout the country. It will not be appropriate and fair for businesses of all types and for small and large enterprises. We believe that the government is taking too little account of how the coronary crisis turns out in different parts of the country. There is a high risk that several measures may reinforce social and geographical differences. The centre party is of the opinion that it is in cooperation between public and private initiatives that the potential lies in order to strengthen Norwegian business. Therefore, it is disappointing that the government will not use the municipalities as an engine to increase the activity locally. They could have done both through municipal investment and maintenance because it is through the type of investment and maintenance that one will also meet the local industry, the local construction industry, the small entrepreneurs and the professionals. Instead, we are in a situation where a number of municipalities are now preparing for cuttings. Then it would be that when they cut down the business they should be doing normally, they would also not be able to be an engine in getting activity going locally. We see in the economic structure that's now here, that it's the big ones and not the small ones that are given priority. The small contractor in my hometown is still passing through, between all the chairs, as far as the compensation scheme is concerned. He has no assignment and is standing on the bar hill. At the same time, he has to see that the state's money goes to compensation for those who are behind the tax-free trade at Gardermoen. Now we also see that it is clearly said from the right that the public sector is to be down-prioritized. It is the private thing that must be given priority. But it is also going to hit the municipalities hard and thus the schools, the kindergartens and the municipal health services that have been standing steady in the storm in the last few months. The lot of the centre proposes an arrangement amounting to 4,4 billion. kr more than the government of the local government, both as compensation and to start activity. At the beginning of June was over 10 pst. by the labour force in Norway, in full or in part, unemployed. The corresponding figure before the closure in March was 3.2 pst. There are many people here today who have underlined the seriousness of this. It is our responsibility to all of us for the many people who have lost the job, or who have been permitted as a result of the coronary crisis. Getting people back to work as soon as possible is essential. As a society, we can't afford the kind of unemployment that's close to what we're now seeing. The forward situation is uncertain. We must be prepared for new outbreaks of infection. At the same time, we need to be able to deal with the situation in a way that is understood by them. With regard to the economic situation, the Central Party is concerned. We're concerned about what happens over the summer as the permitting systems approach the end, and we're concerned that one is not taking fast enough action in relation to activity related to specific sectors such as municipalities, the defence, the shipyards, the hydropower and in the case of green investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2122	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2127	I want to get into the transport sector a little bit. The centre party opposed the establishment of Nye Veier in its time. It was argued that this was a very bureaucratic system. The reality is that Nye Veier is a small and effective development organisation. Now we have some years of experience behind us, and the conclusion is quite clear. The company builds more, globally, faster and at a lower cost together. 19 of the projects have improved, and we get more for each of the heads that we invest. New roads have also contributed to a higher level of activity than ever in Norwegian road construction and to a faster implementation of several projects. It will be an important tool, not least to maintain a high level of activity even in the time we are entering. My question is: is the representative Arnstad and the Central Party still of the opinion that New Vejer is a bureaucratic system, or will one be with and develop the company further and ensure a continued high level of activity in Norwegian road construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2136	Traffic is important, and it will be an important part in the future to get the activity up. I could have talked a lot about that. Instead of talking about organisational forms, I could have talked about the need for e.g. strengthening the county roads and the county road network, which is currently a heavy one, should be too many counties, and into which the state should have gone much stronger. But let's talk a little bit about the organisation of the transport sector. I am of the opinion that both Nye Veier and the State Road Administration are doing a good job. I don't think there's any reason to talk down the state road system either. They do an excellent job many places around the country. Then they've got a competitor in New Veier. New roads have many of the same professionals, but what they've got is a different predictability of the framework from that of the state road system. They have received a competitive advantage from political authorities in the work they do. The fact that they do that job very well a lot of places, they do. There's nothing to put on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2143	It's reassuring to hear. This means that we can aim at New Veger having a good future ahead of us and can be a good benchmark for the work done by the State Road Administration. I want to ask about a more specific project. Yesterday we had a debate on the E18 Lysaker – Ramstadsletta. In that debate it became clear that the Central Party did not support that project, in so far as a project such as the representative Arnstad, at the time as Minister of Transport, was presented in the National Transport Plan in 2013. At the same time, we are committed to maintaining the level of activity in the economy and facilitating employment. I expect that there are several Norwegian suppliers who will now be concerned that this and other transport projects will enter the market as soon as possible. In its alternative budget, the Senterpartie cut 400 million. kr in the allocation to the Fornebuban. Will the Centre Party and the representative Arnstad consider voting for the E18 Lysaker – Ramstadsletta later today, so that we can speed up the project with the positive effects it has on activity and employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2151	No, we won't. It's a pure priority from our side. The project E18 westwards is a socio-economic very unprofitable project. It is also a very expensive project. Around this country, we have a county road network that is sadly neglected, both in the centre and in the local government. They need drag help to get the county road network rusted up. We should rather spend more money there and less money on the type of project that the E18 westwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2156	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2161	The first crisis package Stortinget dealt with in ours, was a package that was not at all adapted to the situation in which it was put, but the Stortinget took control and made it more powerful and social. It has been absolutely essential that we have come through the first few months in a much better way than what would have been the case if the package had been adopted as it came from the government. Why has it been so important? Well, because economic crises like the one we're up to now often lead to an explosion in social inequality afterwards. Unfortunately, we are back to normal with the consideration of the budget and the third crisis package today. It is the right side that comes together in this collapse, and the result is that fine little has been done with the government's proposals that were taken up, gray and unsocial: take hold because there is not enough money where there really is an effort to get the wheels going and people working, gray because the long-aware green crisis package is puzzled and inadequate, and unsocial because we see the true face of the right when even in this situation they choose to give tax cuts to the country's wealthiest that we don't know works, instead of giving priority to the unemployed, and that they choose to continue with a model of support for businesses without social demands, for example. what should have been the most obvious, namely that if you receive state support, you should not resign workers. SV's options are aimed at dealing with the different aspects of the current crisis. We're proposing 10 billion. D more to combat the economic crisis in order to get the wheels moving through a wide range of short-term measures, 10 billion. SEK to strengthen the welfare of municipalities and 10 billion. kr to climate and green industry. The crisis is not over, so it is essential to create security for workers, and that we equip ourselves for what can become rounds of mass redundancies for the harvest if the policy is not changed. Therefore, the period of leave should now be extended to 52 weeks, so it is wrong to propose a cut in the daily allowances for the harvest, and it is therefore also necessary to point out once again how bad it is that the government was unable to provide an emergency solution during the spring for the many persons who were looking for their money. We have had a situation where workers in Norway in 2020 lacked money for food on the table. We propose a wide range of measures to get people working: upgrading construction, installation of solar cells, rail, highways, county roads, ports and pedestrian and cycle routes, flood protection and race protection, broadband development, water and sewerage upgrading and 3 billion. to increase the safety and income protection of workers. Then SV suggests that we start with what must be the big project for Norway in the 2020s: a nice new deal. We must counteract this crisis by preparing for the next, which is the climate crisis. Work and climate go hand in hand. That is why we are proposing a large green investment programme that will enable us to develop solutions to reduce emissions and reduce global technology, while at the same time creating opportunities for Norwegian industry: carbon capture and storage, sea wind, green projects for the yard industry, hydrogen – the list is long. And then finally, we're facing a possible crisis of well-being. It cannot be that those who depend on kindergartens, schools, care for the elderly and those who work in the municipality pay the price of the crisis. Therefore, municipalities must now have an economic boost and be compensated for the failure of income they have. We are seeing right now – even if things go up and down a little from day to day – that things are going really well in the stock markets. Central banks in several countries have entered financial markets heavily. The rich are always saved in crises. The question is whether the policy will be for everyone else, and what we are proposing today is a crisis policy that is for the many, not for the few at the top.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2180	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2185	I want to thank the representative for the post and ask him something that I know is close to his heart, namely climate. In the budgetary notes, the Socialist Left Party writes that there is a need for more renewable power production in Norway. The SV referred to in the note is the upgrade of existing hydropower plants. Can the representative tell us how many new TWh it will give us, compared to how many TWh we need in order to be able to electrify all of the things that we here on the Storting together agree to electrify?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2190	There's a big discussion right now, how much renewable power you can get from different sources. I think it's one of the areas where it's necessary that the parties come to a common understanding, so that we can also do what's a very important balance, that's to relate to the two environmental crises we have at once. We need renewable energy to phase out fossil energy and solve the climate crisis. But we are also in another environmental crisis linked to nature and species diversity. Therefore, it is quite natural for an environmental party to also impose requirements on the development of renewable energy. There I see that the government has made some wise demands related to wind power – a recognition that the level of conflict around it needs to decrease. I expect that is what lies behind the representative Heggelund's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2195	It's not quite right that this is a big discussion. The representative Lars Haltbrecken has asked the Minister of Oil and Energy earlier about how many TWh such an upgrade will trigger. We know this, and to put it simply: what we also know is that such an upgrade will give us something more TWh, but not near what we need to electrify all that we have agreed to electrify – not in the vicinity. What I want to challenge is the leader of the Socialist Left Party at that time, is what kind of new renewable production is what he wants to set in motion so that we can manage to electrify everything that we agree to electrify.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2200	The SV has presented the last weeks related to the Green New Deal, and as we will further specify in our programme, I believe that the bravest and most comprehensive policy development in Norwegian policy is at a good time, because it is about reconciling the interests of work and industrial development, the need to reduce emissions and to address the challenges we have related to nature and biodiversity. I know that the Right Rare is so very busy lately, but we have to take that into account too. Then we need to find ways to obtain renewable energy that provides industrial opportunities, while at the same time looking for what gives the least natural intervention possible. It is also one of the reasons why SV wants a heavy bet on floating sea winds, which we very much welcome the fact that the government parties show greater enthusiasm for progress. It is not without natural conflict but with less natural conflict and with very large industrial opportunities for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2205	Then I will follow this up with two questions, because it is absolutely impossible now to get clear answers from SV about what they actually think about renewable power production in Norway. One question is: when the representative Lighthouse mentions liquid sea wind – we fully agree that it should be put on, and we already do – he believes, when he takes it as an example, that that power should return to land and not be used to electrify the base and perhaps be sent southwards, which will be a great industrial opportunity for Norway. That's the one. It will be completely new, completely new paces from SV to which the representative Lightbaking adds up. Then there'll be big and interesting debates about it. That's the one question: shall that stream return to land? The second question is: What renewable power generation, in addition to the few TWhs available for upgrading hydropower plants, will he have on land? Where is he willing to have the wind – if anywhere? Will he have new hydropower plants – if anywhere, if so, where?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2212	The counter-question will be whether the Right has a complete strategy for both how much renewable energy we need in a 10- or 20-year perspective, and exactly where it's going to come from. I don't think the right one has that. It's a lot demanded that everyone else have it. We have clear principles for how we want to gain power. We are in favour of renewable power development. We are also concerned that there must be criteria on the basis of which nature takes care. Therefore, SV has contributed to the development of wind power on land. We've also been against projects that obviously cost too much naturally, or for example. is contrary to the interests of indigenous peoples. I see that the government is giving the same signals itself. So the representative Heggelund must explain why the oil and energy minister said on the radio this morning at the latest that there will be less wind on land.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2219	I also have a question about climate. Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 3.4 pst. last year. There were new numbers from the SSB today. It's the fourth year in a row that we're reducing emissions. Norwegian cities where SV is involved in driving more work. Among other things in Oslo, emissions rose in 2018. They are probably higher now than they were in 2015. Then my question is, what are we doing nationally and with a civil majority that's right, and what's the SV doing wrong in cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2225	It's a little bit original if the Left is to take credit for everything that's happening nationally, but has no responsibility for what's happening in cities, where a very large part of people live, and where the emissions are going. So I think we'll see these things in context. It is also the case that government parties should be very careful about boasting too much of these emissions, which unfortunately still plunge into a rainforest-causing palm oil, which we risk contributing to global emission growth instead of reducing. With regard to the actual conversion of the Norwegian economy to become a green renewable economy and a green industry investment, it is sad to say that it is puzzled. See how the government has now invested in large tax reliefs to oil companies instead of an offensive to green industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2232	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2237	We have today come to the last day in a session completely out of the ordinary. What until March drew to become a more normal six-month, was suddenly turned upside down. The virus spread has hit a lot of people hard. Fear of both personal health and the health of people who are close has been difficult to bear for many. The uncertainty associated with job and own economy and, in particular, the prospects have been difficult. Nor should we underestimate the fact that the social dissociation that has been necessary for infectious diseases has been demanding for many. People who initially struggle with mental distress have been particularly hard hit in this situation. We have to take this very seriously in the future. The government’s response to the outbreak of the virus has been stringent measures to protect the sick and the elderly, by investing considerable resources in treating those who get sick. It is a strong sense of solidarity, in line with the Christian People's Party's human dignity, that all people have equal and inviolable value. However, for individuals and businesses alike, the cost of the anti-pollution measures is high – as we have seen in the last few months. Therefore, comprehensive measures were decided to limit the adverse effects on the Norwegian economy, enterprises and jobs. The goal has been to provide security and support to those who need it. That's why the investment in vulnerable children is 400 million. the priorities of hospitals and the elderly have been important initiatives. We should never forget that it is the weakest who are hit the hardest in such a situation. The crisis is now moving into a new phase. The society is gradually opening up, and we're going to get the wheels started again. The Government has proposed a number of measures in the RNB and the Phase 3 proposition that will become important at this stage. This will help to get more people to work – everyone who can work should work. Then we have to prevent people from falling out of work, and make sure to help more people get into work. One group we know often falls out of the labour market is immigrants, and in times of crisis the situation becomes even more difficult for those who are struggling initially. That's why we're prioritizing 260 million. kr to increased effort in the introductory programme, SEK 171 million. NOK 25 million for Norwegian adult immigrant training. SEK to increase the number of participants in Jobjesen, which is an action to increase the number of domestic women with a migrant background in work, and EUR 10 million. to non-governmental organisations working on information measures against the immigrant population in the context of the outbreak of the virus. Many are now unemployed or marginalised because of the coronary crisis. Past crises have taught us that we need to provide education and school to prevent people from staying out of work. We have to make sure that those who are unemployed today get the skills that business needs tomorrow. Competitive measures for workers in need of formal, up-to-date or new skills are important for precisely combating exclusion, including more and strengthening the migration capacity of the Norwegian economy. Competence requirements in the labour market are increasing, and it will be useful for individuals as well as for society if people without jobs can take the time to gain more skills. It is particularly important to increase skills among people without or with little formal education. With the government's proposal, an estimated 2 500 people in the year's take-off coal can be given the opportunity to complete secondary education in the autumn of 2020. An estimated 5,000 persons now on leave and unemployed without completed secondary education are given the opportunity to complete the autumn of 2020. In addition, we increase the appropriation for the apprentice grant by 170 million. kr, so that more enterprises will take in apprentices. The measures in this package are about 1 billion. kr. The financial measures in Phase 1 and Phase 2 have been aimed at keeping enterprises and jobs liquid through the crisis. In Phase 3, we introduce measures that can help get the activity up and get the permit back to work. A total of 6.4 billion is proposed. to take measures to promote the activity of the construction industry, in the cultural and sporting industries and in the tourism sector. These are very important measures to put in place to get the unemployed and to permit them back to work. I am pleased that this powerful package will have a majority in Stortinget today. These are important instruments for all those who are hard hit by the pandemic in different ways. We'll still have to live with the consequences, but it's important that we start getting the wheels started again. We believe that the means to be adopted today will help.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2258	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2263	The travel industry was a little mentioned by the representative. It's an industry that's characterized by a lot of optimism, and it's probably the opposite of what you can call a demanding industry. It is a travel industry that is now in its greatest crisis ever, but you have every opportunity to succeed if you are able to assist the industry through the crisis. Now our country is shut down for tourists, and then there's no reason to keep open. The city I live in, Tromsø, is a hub for travel life throughout the country. There's 60 pst. in the tourism industry now on leave. There are almost 2,000 people. That's really serious. Because they don't want to extend the permit scheme, they fear that at the end of July they will have to cancel a lot. My question is: does the representative Gruvan think that the government should give the travel industry the necessary signals that the permit regime needs to be extended?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2270	Clearly, both the tourism industry and other industries are still struggling. We can see that. Fortunately, we also see that some of the wheels are starting to get started again. Luckily, several people come back to work, the people on leave can come back to work, and there will be fewer redundancies, and there will be a total ban. What I think is important now is that we follow developments closely. We are not going to be sloppy today about what measures are the right and most targeted beyond the harvest and winter. We have to listen to the industry, and the tourism industry is an important industry. At the same time, we have experience from the financial crisis in 2009, where an expanded permitting mechanism was 52 weeks, and where one also had some negative experience of this being an enclosed position. I think we need to be open to assess that kind of action without concluding today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2277	With all due respect to report, we have almost shut down our country. There won't be tourists to Norway. It is not useful to say that measures may not be taken. If we're going to have a travel industry after the crisis, they need help over the crisis, and then they're going to be able to recover. I was visiting the Senja region, as the representative knows very well, last week. They are fully in agreement, as the travel industry is also, that the most important thing now is to ensure that the permitting regime is extended, so that many people are not to be dismissed at the end of July. It's a fact. I ask again, is it not wise to give the travel industry this extremely important signal, so that the industry can continue to grow and be the amazing industry it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2284	We will follow the tourism industry very closely, along with other industries that can experience major problems further on. At the same time, we see that some wheels are starting to start. We don't have a full overview. I think it is wise that we now both listen to the industry and assess the measures that can be as accurate as possible. To conclude today, before we've seen a little bit more of the development, I think it's a little too early. As I said, we had some experience in the 2009 financial crisis, as the representative Myrseth probably remembers, where one chose to expand the permitting arrangements. The experience wasn't just good. There were people who actually stayed out of work, who could have come to work. It is also the experience that we need to take with us when we evaluate the actions ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2291	As I said, you can't run a business without having the most important customers in place. It's just not possible. You can't have hotels open if it's not people who want to stay at the hotels. It is not that they can be used for courses and conferences either, because it is not easy to do either. I hear what the representative says, but it is not that it is too early to conclude – it is too late. We're too late for this industry. Since the representative does not want to respond to it with the permitting mechanism, I wonder what measures the representative Grøvan believes are most important now to keep the wheels running for the travel industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2298	I think there are many measures that are important to keep this industry going. I also think we will see that this with the Nordics choosing Norway as a holiday destination can give some positive effects that we do not fully see the consequences of today. We are aware that for some industries it has also been difficult for the closure to create an unpredictable situation by ordering foreigners late, etc. But now I think we should first of all listen, we should see how these things evolve, and we must be prepared to be able to put in place new measures if we see that this is going a path we are not served with, and that can mean too much burden for a sector, such as the United States. the tourism industry, which is brought forward here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2303	We know that many families with sick children don't get the help they need. The Christian People's Party wants to spend money on a hospice somewhere farthest south of Norway. SV proposes – together with the Løvemmammen, who fight for their sick children – to use this money to set up children’s palliative teams across the country to ensure that seriously ill children and their families get more time together. Why won't the Christian People's Party work for and support the SVs and Løvemmamen's proposal to get $30 million. kr to children's palliative team throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2311	I know very well both the background and the reason for the establishment of the children's palliative centre in Kristiansand. There is a lot of experience here – experience that has come through experiences with your own children and close family, and that I think will mean a lot to build up the skills we need in this area, because we don't have the kind of centres else in Norway. This, of course, does not mean that we should not strengthen health businesses with regional children’s palliative teams. This is a top priority task for the government, and we want to strengthen health businesses across the whole country. Whenever you choose to spend 30 million. kr for this purpose shall not exceed the amount otherwise paid by health establishments. This is also going to add up. In addition, we have a searchable item of the same amount, which it is also possible to use for the same purpose, and which I think we are going to get a lot of good experience and knowledge based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2324	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2329	The way back to everyday life is going to be long, and it's going to require a lot of us as a society. The uncertainty there will remain as long as there is a risk of infection. In addition to that, we are now hit hard by a severe international setback and a fall in oil and gas prices. This means that targeted measures are still needed to support both Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian workers. I am pleased that the majority has reached an agreement on further strengthening the government's proposed measures. New figures from June show that so far more than 33 000 enterprises have used the instrument. That's granted almost 23 billion. SEK in loans and guarantees and SEK 7.4 billion. NOK in grants. The figures show a great deal of activity in business with many projects being launched and that the schemes have been relevant to very many. We have raised the level of ambition in climate policy, we have taken important steps to transform into a greener society. Innovation and efficient use of resources are crucial for achieving higher and at the same time green economic growth. Together with the measures proposed by the Government in the revised national budget, the proposed commitment to green growth and migration amounts to more than 4.5 billion. kr, and our goal is to create new and green jobs and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The green package is almost exclusively aimed at private business in the areas of green shipping, sea wind, hydrogen, battery technology and circular economy. For my responsibilities, I would like, among other things: draw out 1 billion. kr over three years that goes to a new scheme called the green platform. It is a scheme that will facilitate green growth and a sustainable working life. The green shipping effort will be reinforced by a new borrowing scheme for fleet renewal and a water conditioning scheme for ships engaged in short sea shipping. The majority now agree to double the proposed loan framework to 600 million. kr. The MAROFF programme in the Research Council will be strengthened by 65 million. kr and capital grants in Nysnø climate investments in 2020 are increased to 1 billion. kr. The government has also proposed 2 billion. kr extra to Enova to strengthen the commitment to technology development in industry and green conversion. Several have mentioned travel life in the debate here today, and the tourism industry is still in a critical situation. Travel businesses are facing a change of pace. The government is proposing more measures to support travel through this crisis, and measures that bring people back to work are now important. We're proposing 250 million. kr to a grant scheme for business development in the tourism industry. Seasonal holdings such as alpine and amusement parks are managed in a new temporary scheme which contributes to the financing of the necessary statutory maintenance costs. That's the proposed 250 million. Add kr. The government proposed to set up a loan scheme for package tour operators, but the majority have now agreed to convert 500 million. NOK 2 billion of the proposed loan arrangement. kr to a new cash support or grant scheme. There we now work quickly in the department to get it approved by ESA. Export industries need short-term financing. The Government therefore proposes to establish a new guarantee scheme for the reinsurance of credit insurance. The scheme shall contribute to risk-absorption and the State will cover the risk of losses of up to 20 billion. kr. We are also working on an export action plan to help the business to recover exports both through and out of the crisis. Both our well-being and our jobs depend on trade with other countries and exports.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2349	I am pleased that the Minister mentioned the tourism industry, which we have just discussed. The travel industry is really in crisis, and the travel industry needs the Minister of Economy to start being Minister of Travel. Unfortunately, too little has been seen in this crisis. Norway has been chosen to be shut down for tourism. There have been measures to be taken, but there have also been significant impacts on industry. The most important thing now is to get the industry over the crack so that you can actually start over when this is over. At that time, it is important to ensure that measures, such as extending the leave-time mechanism, make the compensation system more effective, that there is sufficient funding for the marketing of Norway, that the travel life organisers' scheme is more effective, and not least that the seasonal scheme is a success for all, because there is no market failure we see now. The question is: why does the government fail to implement the measures we know will work for the tourism industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2354	The representative is quite right that the tourism industry is severely affected. It's the corona that makes there not tourists now. It's the corona that makes it absolutely necessary to close the boundaries. It's also the corona that makes us now have to start up gently again, because it's not for the business community, nor travel life, if we open up too much too early and have to shut down again. The government has already done a lot for travel. We have e.g. Purchased air routes – and this is very important for the part of the country represented by the representative. We have extended the compensation scheme. We have made provision for wage subsidies to make it easier and more attractive to take back workers. We have given money to Innovation Norway. And we're going with travel, because we know that it's the industry that met the coronary challenge first, and that's among the industries that are going to have to struggle with the longest aftereffects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2361	There is no disagreement that this is about the Korona. What we're all the reason Norway – and the world – is up in the crisis we're doing. But as far as travel life is concerned, for example, shows that: a membership survey conducted by Akre at 49 pst. by the companies they do not think they are going to be up to normal level again until the earliest autumn of 2021. It is the responsibility of the government, in cooperation with the Storting, to come up with measures to ensure that the industry gets over this crisis, and that has not been sufficiently done. You know what it takes for it to work, but there are measures that the government says no. So I ask again, why do you say no to measures that the industry itself says are absolutely essential to release, for example. mass bankruptcies and redundancies at the end of July?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2366	Travel life is a diverse industry that is also affected differently. Some of the measures they're waiting for and want to, we can't say anything about yet. This applies, for example: the conference hotels, which can now have no more than 200 inside the conference. They hope, and the government hopes, that we can open up to more people, but we have to wait and see how the infection situation is. We have strengthened and extended the leave arrangements. At the same time, there is an industry we have focused on, and the government has also said this – that we will keep track of the situation during the summer and the autumn. So per now we reject nothing. On the contrary, we say that this is one of the industries that we have special attention to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2371	It's not every big session you get the pleasure of immersing yourself in the Tifoli or the cable car law, but this session we've got that opportunity. The reason for this is that many actors subject to these laws, such as tivoli, alpine installations and others, who have had to shut down, continue to have some very costly maintenance responsibilities and needs imposed on the authority. We have tried to address this jointly, but I still perceive that there has spread some uncertainty among the actors about everyone being taken well enough through the decisions we are making here. Will and can the Council of State ensure that the intention is achieved, namely that these companies will receive support for that type of maintenance work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2378	I'm very happy that I get that question, because it gives me the opportunity to make the Storting aware of a challenge we've encountered, because now that we've started working on that scheme, we see that if we're going to limit it to what the compensation scheme defines as seasonal enterprises, i.e. those that have 80 pst. of its turnover within six months, we see that the scheme can fall a little crooked and hit a little arbitrarily. We are more concerned with fulfilling what we believe is the intention of Stortinget, and therefore want to continue working on that scheme, but then based on the companies that are subject to maintenance obligations under the said Tivoli and cable car law. So from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and my side, I assume that the Stortinge thinks it's okay, precisely because that's what will meet the goal in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2388	Then I would like to follow up on something of the same as the representative from Bjørnstad mentioned. After all, there are a number of establishments that are subject to both the Tifoli Act and the Tauban Act. As far as the Tifoli Act is concerned, it is not only amusement parks but also the travelling Tyroles. I would like to be told by the Council of State whether it is such as to believe that all the establishments covered by those laws will also be subject to this maintenance scheme, and also whether it relates to the statutory maintenance that one has, for example. vehicle, which is important for a travelling tifoli, and not only related to attractions and installations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2393	We're now working on that arrangement. In these days things go very fast, and we see that in the discussion this was very linked up to the definition that was for seasonal businesses. But as we've started working on that delimitation, because this has to be a new system, we see that then it hits a little bit crooked. So we haven't finished the work yet. Instead of starting from that part of the industry that has 80 pst. of its turnover within six months, we want to be based on those who have a maintenance obligation under the law. That's what's going to be our starting point when we're going to design the scheme and get it notified in ESA. That means that there are still things that will fall outside, but we believe that it will more fully fulfill the Storting's intention and fall out a little less skewed than we saw if we were to take the base of 80 pst. within six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2402	I then interpret it in such a way that all the establishments covered by the laws initially also fall under the maintenance arrangements. Nevertheless, there will be a great distortion between stationary amusement parks and travelling amusement parks which are in the same industry and are in competition with them but which have some other regulatory maintenance costs and which have to meet requirements, not least for special vehicles used in their operations. Is there any consideration by the Council of State to look at, relating either to that scheme or to any other aid scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2407	This is a relatively sloppy arrangement. The reason why we want to look a little bit wider on it is because we saw that with the starting point of 80 pst. within six months, one Alpine site would like to need support while the neighbouring site does not need support. Now that we're based on who has a maintenance obligation under the law, it's quite right that the representative says that it could lead to a distortion, or that someone who thinks they should be given is not getting it. Finding a perfect system that embraces everyone, but limiting in a good way, can probably be challenging. But we're going along with the situation. The government has said all the way that there is a need for adjustments, we must be open to it and possibly come back again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2412	In our proposal, we add a lot more money to the state investment company Nysnø than the government does. Together with resilient companies and entrepreneurs, we believe Nysnø is a very important player in the process of transforming the Norwegian economy. We believe that the state needs to take more control of the green shift and bet on forward-looking nutrition measures, rather than measures that make us even more oil dependent. The left boasts of wanting to bet on green conversion, but when the left comes to the negotiating table, it ends up with more tax havens for the oil industry. Why is the loyalty of the Council of State to the oil industry greater than to the many green farmers out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2419	Let me start with the oil package first. It shows in a very good way what the Left manages to do with the Right and Christian People's Party: a good and balanced order, and we have presented it to the Biggest. It also shows that SV is unable to do the same with the Workers' Party and ended up leaving the negotiating table, so that we remained standing with a majority who – I agree – gave more money to the oil industry than the government and the left initially provided. As far as Nysnø is concerned, I fully agree that it is a very important company, precisely because they are entering capital into new, green and exciting companies and helping them up and down, but nevertheless with a commercial eye. I am very happy that SV sees the value of both Nysnø and the private business, but I remember that SV did not lift one finger to get Nysnø established and not one finger to get it located to Stavanger. So the newly won enthusiasm for Nysnø I'm glad, but we need to talk more about it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2426	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2431	While we are dealing with this matter, 300,000 are still wholly or partly unemployed. Then it is essential that we set as our main goal to get more people to work and secure their income until they are back to work. At the time of the crisis, there was broad agreement on the exceptional measures taken by workers. Increased compensation was given to those who lost the job. The requirements for receiving the daily allowance were lowered, so that several people were able to cover some of the income they had lost. Specific decisions were taken on measures for apprentices, self-employed and freelancers. Now we're on our way out of the crisis, but we're not out of it. Unemployment is still historically high, and it will not return to a normal level until the end of this year. That is why the Labour Party disagrees with the government when they are already cutting off the exceptional compensation measures for employees before the end of the year. I am probably not the only one in this room who has received a number of concerns from businesses and trade unions lately. People are afraid of their jobs, for them to have to be laid down and for good environments of competence to be fragmented. Such environments may rage in a short time, but it takes a long time to rebuild them. No one wants workers to go on leave for too long, but the feedback from industry and trade unions is that too many will meet the option that if we do not extend the leave period, cancellations will be the option. If there is no clear signal to extend the period of leave now, there will be many jobs across the country that will be met with redundancies until the autumn. People need predictability about what the rules are going to be beyond the harvest. That is why we allocate money in the revised budget for 2020, so that the permitting mechanism can be extended. People are still waiting for their daily allowance. And before they get it, the Storting now decides to cut the extraordinary rates. I wish I heard correctly when Minister of Finance Sanner answered the representative Kaski that it was just the companies it had been cut for. But it's also cut for those who make 150,000 kroner or less. They're losing their daily allowance. Those who have been in work for a short time will lose their daily allowance from 1 November. It's also those with the very lowest income that might spend their daily allowance to get the food budget to go up or pay the rent, that's what's going on. When the government spends 1.3 billion. kr to cut taxes on wealth, which is then supported by the Progress Party – then it is easy to understand that the parties have different meanings in the phrase ‘for the most people’. Many more than those who have daily money are affected by the Corona situation in Nav. People who are sick and who have been exposed to their treatment may rightly lose their entitlement to sick pay because the period of sick pay expires before receiving treatment. Therefore, we spend more money on hospitals, so that they can increase the treatment capacity. Those on redundancy pay have been granted an extended period of time for those on redundancy pay until the end of October. It is important that those who are waiting to be clarified will be, and for those who are going to be so, there must be an opportunity for action. That is why we are spending money on a significant increase in the action budget for Nav, with 4000 new posts in the autumn. In this way, funds are released, so that those who Nav is unable to clarify can extend their payment. Finally, I would like to raise a proposal for consideration of the draft representative, which has been promoted by the representative of Moxnes for advances to unemployed people who have not received the money they are entitled to. We have not been able to support the concrete design of the proposal, but we agree with the intention that it is important to ensure that people do not have to stand up and wait for the daily allowance or pay compensation that they are entitled to. That is why we are promoting a proposal that if this is not in order on 1 July, the Council of State must find a system so that people do not wait for their money. It's not good for people to walk for months without any kind of income insurance. There we have a challenge about one or five thousand. There has to be a system for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2450	I am very pleased that we have come into port with the revised national budget and the government's actions to take Norway out of the corona crisis. The aim of the measures now agreed is to create more and to include more. The situation in Norway prior to the Korona crisis, with falling oil revenues and fewer working-age years, has not become less real, but we now need to ensure that the companies that are hard hit back after the closure are provided with the necessary help. Ensuring a necessary financial safety network for workers is important. Furthermore, we are going to transform into a greener development, including in the business world. So now it's about getting people back to work again, ensuring more legs to stand on and together create a green future. We know that the value of work far exceeds the value of the oil wealth. Most people realize that it is the income from private jobs that greatly finances our welfare society. That is why we must help to ensure that the public sector does not get at the expense of private jobs. Then we need a good interaction between the public and private sectors, and that these challenge each other. It is often the case that the private sector has taken the lead in innovation. They have also gone ahead in the inclusion dungeon. People who can work must have an opportunity to enter the labour market. The consensus between the government parties and the Progress Party will contribute to the creation of more jobs in several industries throughout the country. Tomorrow's jobs we don't know what it's like today. This is why research and technology development must be focused on, as well as giving a commitment of competence to those who are already at work, to be able to meet tomorrow's job. No one is going out on a date in the world of work. Without private companies carrying out profits and paying taxes, the state could not have behaved in the same way as it has done in the course of the coronary crisis. We're going to make sure that it pays to bet, hire and grow, so that the new and green jobs come in the private sector. The marine industry is important for Norway. It contributes significantly to the creation of value added and employment along the coast and contributes to important jobs in District Norway. In particular, the industry contributes to large export revenues. This is one of the industries that's done best during the shutdown we're through. There's been a long discussion about extra taxes on the industry. That is why I am very pleased that the government dropped out of the proposal on rent taxes, as well as that the municipalities that have made provision for aquaculture will receive some of the income – it has not lost it, it has continued. For the years 2020 and 2021, the local government sector will be allocated 3.25 billion. kr from income from capacity adjustments. As of 2022, the local government sector will receive approx. 500 million. kr from the production fee and 40 pst. of the revenue from capacity adjustments. A consensus on the future distribution of income from aquaculture was important. I am very pleased that the negotiations have now concluded at Stortinget, and that the distribution of revenue between the state and the municipalities that have provided has been clarified. The industry has been waiting for this clarification, because they were faced with many potable projects requiring large investments, and then predictability around the tax system was an important clarification. Yesterday I heard about Mowi on Her Island on Helgeland, which has expanded with a new fillet line in the middle of the coronary crisis. It means more jobs out on the island and good opportunities for continued value creation. In Bindal, SinkabergHansen is building a very smelt plant. Such good stories from the aquaculture industry are more of them, and we also need them in many other industries in the future. What we don't need is the Workers' Party's continued ambiguity about what they think about the farm tax. If they read a press release from the Workers' Party, they are not ready to say anything about whether it is the municipalities that have facilitated aquaculture that will receive the income. They say, however, that they will have a review of the income system for municipalities and assess how income from the aquaculture sector is reflected in the municipal income system. It may mean lubricating revenue thinly, rather than going to the municipalities that have provided for aquaculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2469	Let me begin by responding to the invitation of the representative, Eigil Knutsen, from earlier today. For the first time in my nearly seven years in the United Kingdom, I can finally use the worn-out parliamentary expression and, in fact, believe it: a good budget has improved. The government's proposal was a good starting point, with many good and important issues both in terms of the revised budget and the Phase 3 package. The most important thing now is to secure people's jobs and get more people back into activity. It has been the leader of the Progress Party when we have negotiated these matters with the government parties. Even though society is returning more and more towards some sort of normal, it will take a long time before business is back to where we were before the virus outbreak. In some sectors and industries, we have not even seen the effects of this – but it will. It has also been important for us to give most people a handshake in their personal economy in an otherwise demanding time. Let me take two examples: fees and tolls, which hit unsocially and crookedly. That's why we're kissing, among other things. taxes on non-alcoholic beverages of 365 million. the year and expect the government to follow up on this in the budget for the next year. 365 million. kr may sound small, but on a bottle with a shower of 1,5 litres it represents a place between 2,50 kroner and 3 kroner. Everything helps, not least it's a contribution to bringing down the border trade. One assumes that shower alone accounts for about 11 pst. by the Swedish trade. It endangers Norwegian jobs both in the retail trade and in the manufacturers. This is a special handshake for all those who work in companies like Oskar Sylte, Aass Bryggeri, Hansa Borg, Telemark Source Water and more. In the case of tolls, we're paying down a number of projects with a total framework of almost 750 million. kr. We know that there are families who pay tens of thousands of dollars a year just to get back and forth to work. If you add another transport, whether it's driving children here and there or other necessary errands, the bill becomes disproportionately high — as in Aver Island, for example, which has a bomb between itself and Kristiansund. Me and the Progress Party should have wanted everyone living in high-bomb-loaded areas to have the same message: now we're tearing your station. But we are unfortunately alone to mean that. That is why we are going to continue this fight in the negotiations on the budget for next year too. The five distances we're now taking away are a start, not an end. The Government followed up in the revised budget the Storting’s request decision to come back with a case on the marine fund’s facilities and taxation of the aquaculture industry. The good thing in that follow-up was that the idea of a land-interest tax in the industry was cancelled for the benefit of a production tax of each kilogram produced. After all, everyone in Stortinget has become the trailer of such a production fee – some more enthusiastic than others, quite rightly. In particular, let me thank Sjømat Norway and the industry for their constructive input into this issue, which has allowed a large majority to join in. Of course, the coastal communities and the LO deserve a thank-you. What was not good in the government's proposal, which is now greatly improved, was the distribution between the state and the municipalities that facilitate this value creation. With the government's proposal, a massive shift would have been made from coastal municipalities to the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance. That the Ministry of Finance wants all the world's money, at least Norway's money, preferably in the department at least once, to be well known, but that the parties Right, Left and Christian People's Party wanted the same thing, was new to me. With the government's proposal, the municipalities this year and next year would get 2 billion. kr of an auction round likely to generate revenues in a location between 5 and 6 billion. kr. So the local authorities should be left with a place between 30 and 40 pst. of the revenue. Now it's greatly improved, up from 2 billion. DKK to 3.25 billion kr. The government also proposed that in the new system from 2022 it should be so that the state would take 75 pst. of the revenue, while the municipalities were to be eaten by 25 pst. For the Progress Party, it is a good and important principle that values remain, as far as possible, where values are created, so that they have strong incentives to facilitate further growth. I should also have mentioned the maritime package, the fight against recrimination in Oslo, the commitment to the elderly and many other things, because they have also contributed to the improvement of a good budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2490	The representatives would like to do what the representative, Mr Bjørnstad, did, namely stand ready to keep the post next to the speaker's chair. Then we save a lot of time in Stortinget. There are many on the list of speakers in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2496	For all those who work in healthcare, this year has been completely out of the ordinary. Of course it has been for all of us, but it has been extra demanding for those who have been tested, those who have been on long and heavy shifts in both hospitals, hospitals and other municipal health and care services. Many have been in close contact with infection and have had to deal with local outbreaks and ongoing outbreaks while many employees have been quarantined. It has made it tough to stand in front. It's incredibly important that we don't rob our people of the time that comes. Therefore, one of the main efforts of the Workers' Party in the revised national budget of the year is an additional allocation of 500 million. kr to the municipalities, which may be used for more infectious protection equipment, testing personnel and not least for the care of the elderly. And we're also going to add 40 million. SEK for full-time bets in the municipalities. It's more important than ever before that we bet on entire, permanent jobs. Throughout the pandemic, and especially during the first few weeks, we received many reports of a lack of infectious disease protection equipment. Hospital workers encouraged construction companies to donate masks and other equipment that could protect against infection. When the infection was out of control, the feeling was that the availability of infectious diseases equipment was also out of control. In response to questions about the stock of infectious disease equipment from the representative Kjersti Toppe, the Minister of Health replied that Norway’s stock of mouthbands would last only four weeks. Here it's revealed a vulnerability that we have to correct. It would be both unwise and unsolvable if Norway were to base itself on getting infective equipment when the crisis was first a fact. Firstly, this may lead to Norway not getting access to the infectious equipment we need. Secondly, it can help to put further pressure on prices, making it even more difficult to equip those countries that have less purchasing power than we do. Norway has now received control of coronary infection. At the moment, there is little infection in society, and a lot of everyday life has come back – perhaps a little too much back, you can ask yourself when you observe the daily life around us. We must not forget that there are people who have had a very tough history of disease, and there are families who have lost their loved ones – several of them have been young people with responsibility for care. For some of those who have survived treatment on the respirator, weeks of rehabilitation awaits. We still don't know exactly what damage survivors will have in the short and long term. For more people, rehabilitation will be necessary, and the Workers' Party will set 30 million. kr extra for the rehabilitation of covid-19 patients. Finally, I would like to say something about isolation and solitude. Many have been cut off from their closest over several weeks. And those who have lost their closest in this time have experienced that they have not been together as much as they wanted, lately. Funerals have been carried out with only a few present. Parents are in a double risk under a pandemic. They have a higher risk of serious disease progression if they are infected, and they live more alone than the general population. We know that solitude and exclusion also have extensive health consequences. As many other representatives have been involved today, health is more than corona. We have seen that cancer treatment and other treatments have been exposed, and it is important that we remember now – that health has a broad perspective. The Pensioners’ Association has sent an important input with important responses to the needs of vulnerable elderly people. They told us about many enquiries they received from pensioners who struggled with loneliness and heavy thoughts about sickness, health and their life situation, who were called in to the Pensionist Association's worry phone. Much of the association over the last few weeks and months we've been behind has been transferred to digital platforms. It's made the extraterrestrial even bigger for those who don't master digital aids. The Labour Party believes that both a digitisation promise is needed to prevent solitude and a psychological health boost. So we're going to cancel out another 190 million. kr for these two bets. Finally, I would like to thank colleagues in Stortinget for the cooperation in this special session and wish everyone a really good summer, at least one meter away.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2521	We're approaching summer holidays for many after a special and demanding time. For those of us who have followed the field of education, with the closure and then the gradual reopening of kindergartens, schools and universities, there has been a special experience that has required a lot of both the individual teacher, the principal and not least the school owner. But also on the part of the government, it is difficult to follow up with funds, regulations and adjustments that have been absolutely necessary to make everyday life and education go up. I would therefore like to start by thanking everyone in the education sector for the job they have done to give our young people and young people their fill and follow-up for an uncertain time, and thank you for throwing around to give them the best possible offer possible. At the same time, we know that it has not been as easy, and we have to admit that although it has been good in many places, there are also many who have not received the follow-up they should have received. I would therefore like to stress how important it is that we now, on our way into the summer, not only follow the tightened rules for the protection of infection, but also that we are at the forefront of giving everyone in the education sector – from children to adults – a good and well-organised arrangement that allows you to take back what is lost and that you are not going to be too far behind. It is important, especially for those young people who have the greatest need for close follow-up. From the moment of government and growth, we have given more resources and contributed to the best possible success. Until the fall, the trade renewal begins, and we continue to implement measures from our great commitment to early action. The goal is clear: most of our children and young people must feel mastery and learning joy, more must complete and pass, and more must be well prepared for the future labour market. This is why we are now strengthening responses to vulnerable children by 400 million. kr. Therefore, when unemployment is high, we need to do a lot in the future to enable our business to get out of the crisis. Part of the solution lies in the government’s educational promise, which will counter exclusion and help more people to complete important education at this time. Together with the civil side, the Right delivers 5,500 higher education places. It's a solid lift and will mean too many. 4000 goes to universities and colleges and 1,500 go to the country's technical schools. At the top, it'll be well over 40 million. to contribute to more flexible and decentralised training provision. This is particularly important in providing access to education for the whole country and for people in all situations of life and helping more people to participate in the educational promise. The large increase in the number of places of study also increases the need for more scholarship holders. Therefore, in order not to compromise the quality and long-term research activity, we are also adding 250 new recruitment positions, which will help both build professional environments and strengthen the focus on research-based education. The Korona crisis has shown the need for students, teachers and the entire education sector to have adequate digital skills. The transition to home education has called for a rapid transition of schools and teaching places. Many have been good, but there is a great difference between how well you have been rusted, in terms of both infrastructure, equipment and not least competence. Now we're adding 8 million. DKK to support better home education and 60 million. For the purchase of digital learning material, it is precisely to build on the experience we have now gained, and not least to ensure that schools are better equipped with the digital skills required in the future. It is very gratifying to see that policy has been active in the field of education in recent years. The students learn more and more, more complete, more complete, more learn and receive vocational letters, more take higher education, and more researchers. Recent figures show that we are again making a record of research funding through the EU. The Norwegian research community builds international networks, strengthens its position and contributes to the development of new opportunities for economic development in Norway. Recently we also got numbers that show that the absence limit has worked very well, with 27 pst. decline in absence and more pupils who have received a better professional starting point for further education. So we can establish that we're on the right track, but there's still a demanding period. Then it's important that kindergartens, schools, yes, the whole of Education Norway extends far, so that there won't be too many of those who need follow-up and help the most, who will be hanging after. The right and government's goal is to be able to get out of the crisis. Then our commitment to children, youth and education is a real step on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2540	It is the Stortinget and the Government that provide the framework for the development of the service provision to municipalities. If we see the municipal economy last year, in the year and next year in the context, the bulk of the population's contribution to the greater well-being of municipalities is quite poor. The financial structure for the local government sector for the current year is the worst that has been presented in the last 15 years. That announced the financial arrangement for the next year in the municipal bill will continue the same course. There is no room for development and growth in the sector. What is the case is that many municipalities have had profits in recent years, and fortunately, there are very few municipalities in ROBEK. We're all happy about that. But it's not because of the government's policy, because the government hasn't foreseen the additional income that the municipalities have received. There are exceptional non-recurring income, tax revenue as a result of tax adjustment, there are concession fees, there are lower costs of demography than provided and there is lower pension costs than provided for – money for which the government has not assumed that the municipalities should have received and had not planned. The problem for those who are out on municipal boards, who are to take care of this welfare offer, is that they cannot plan the operation of kindergartens, recruit teachers or take action for the lonely elderly, with money you don't know you have. Not only is it difficult to rely on it, it is actually directly illegal, because the municipal law requires a balance in the budget – a realistic budgeting. In Wednesday's debate on the municipal proposition, the Council of State astrup asserted that the municipalities at the beginning of the year had a good starting point and a foundation that makes it easier for them to get through the coronary crisis, precisely on the basis of the alleged good economy. That picture did not appear when the fasitite of the municipal economy was presented by the Statistical Central Bureau on Monday. The COSTRA figures show a total net operating surplus as a percentage of gross operating income of 1,9 in 2019. There is a decrease from 2018 when the share was 2,6 pst. Since 2016, the surplus has been more than halved. Operating performance in the municipal sector is now lower than recommended by the Technical Calculation Committee. Nevertheless, representatives of the government parties continue to claim that the local economy is better than ever. That's not right. Municipal Report describes it well: «The speech of the numbers is as clear as it can be. Astrup bombs with his reality description. Very few municipalities are familiar with it. Then it will not be credible." Since March, there has been considerable uncertainty about how municipalities will be compensated for the loss of income and increased expenditure resulting from the covid-19 outbreak. The municipal sector has shown that they have a clear framework for the work currently being done on revising the municipal budgets. Unfortunately, too many people have experienced that there have not been good enough clarifications. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to provide the necessary security to local elected representatives. That's why we're also proposing about 7 billion. more than the government of the sector to achieve these objectives in the revised national budget, and we are ready to allocate additional funds if necessary when we have a secure basis. I would also like to take the opportunity to mention that in the debate on the municipality proposition for 2021 we received an important clarification from the Council of State astrup. Any loss of tax revenue for the municipal sector will be compensated by the estimate in the government’s draft government budget for 2020. That, I believe, gives the municipalities confidence that the tax estimate they have used to plan for this year still applies. That is good, and it helps to reduce the uncertainty that has prevailed in the sector. The government also has a responsibility to find out with the sector what additional costs to cover as a result of the virus outbreak. 358 municipalities and 11 counties will each have their own bill. The Labour Party expects the government to present to the municipalities, as they have said, and to cover these costs. So the government gets to take responsibility for finding an appropriate, fair and effective way to do it. It is the strong communities around in small and large municipalities that form the basis for the welfare of Norway. Ensuring equivalent opportunities is a central task for the Storing and Government. There are children who are going to go to school and kindergarten; there are older people in nursing homes who need help so that they can get a decent old age; there are newly-baked parents in the health centre; and there are businesses and residents who want to develop communities. Last year there were municipal and county elections. Thousands of new and old elected representatives went to the task of high expectations and ambitions. Unfortunately, too many of them experienced too tight a framework, too narrow a framework to develop stronger and better communities for their inhabitants. That's why the Working Party is willing to set up. We donate more money than the government for this development work, because we have greater ambitions for the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2566	We are now in the midst of the most serious shock of the Norwegian economy in the post-war period, and record numbers are out of the labour market. Being without work creates differences. Long-term alienation is devastating, both for individuals and for society. The inclusion duty is therefore one of our most important projects. It's about giving each of us the opportunity to be in a community, where you can master and be active. It means something to the person who gets to participate. It makes sense in everyday life. One of the worst things that can happen to a human being is that it ends up in a sofa and stays there. We all want to belong somewhere. But I'm worried about those who fall outside. When I meet young people and others who have fallen out of the system, it strikes me that they feel so different. Many people think that people like you and me are walking around without worries in life. They think life is coming to an end. The truth is, life is not a sky where the sun always shines. Life must be experienced. It goes up and down. The most important thing is to stay in activity. It's about an opportunity to master life. For who knows what they will be when they grow up? I still don't know. For generations, young people have become dry behind their ears out on the sea. Now Windjammer's got a clean-up, and the Christian Radich schoolship is still out there. Young people who have fallen out of school, or are at risk of falling out, are given a new chance. They meet the forces of the sea and learn to master life with other youths and the crew of sailboats. Over several weeks they get to try out as cooks, engineers and carpenters. For the first time I've started having dinner with my family, I didn't do that before, says one of the young people in the evaluation of the project. Measles feeling, friendship, routines, says another. It's the little things in life, but nevertheless so important. The initiators of the Windjammer project said it was easy. Do not get stuck on land when there is a sea of opportunity. The inclusion principle is about possibilities. It's about those who give the opportunities, and those who get them. It's history stories that often start with individuals. Renate Thunem is one of these. Renate was undressed and bedridden when she established a paint company ten years ago. Many people need a job, but they don't fit into the framework and rules everywhere. Renate gives them a chance. Everyone needs to be seen, she says. Linda Øye has also created her own job. Linda was forced into prison for nine years, and today she uses her own experience to help young people who are struggling. She's talking about going from the victim role to the warrior role. She helps the individual to come forward and find her own dreams. Slowly but surely she peels the onion, layer by layer. She's getting the shades out. Linda can see that a youth who's out of school and has a bad rhythm, maybe just lacks the feeling of weekend. Those who are outside the labour market do not have a weekend. They lack the framework and references provided by the job. Umid Shamairzaev has created this framework, as chief baker at Brustadbakeren. Umid came to Norway ten years ago and felt that he was out of work, without knowing the language and without a close network. The job Umid got, changed his life. Now he wants to give others the same opportunity. Language and network are the key to success, he says. Renate, Linda and Umid are important pieces in the inclusion dungeon. They see people and give them a chance. That's the value of work. For society, it is a good social economy. For the individual, it is a matter of quality of life. Therefore, it is so important that the inclusion load continues with full force. That's why it's so important that we don't give up people and we demand that those who can work should work. Therefore, it is so important that the State takes the lead and employs more people with holes in the CV. Therefore, it is so important that we have established several places with permanent work organisation and the focus on wage subsidies. And that's why it's so important that we get more employers who go ahead and create jobs. The value of work is well-being. That's how we create more and include more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2589	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2594	We have to do everything we can to prevent unemployment from getting stuck at a high level. In fact, it doesn't help with a cut in the wealth tax. It does not create jobs. Strong measures are needed to prevent abductions and permanent outreach. Now we are proposing a rescue package for workers of 3.7 billion. kr in the Labour Party. In this package, we extend the period of leave out of the year to ensure that leavencies do not become cancellations. And we have a significant commitment to competence, and we also increase the trade union deduction. The Labour Party also has good and effective measures for our companies and proposes changes to the compensation system, which also helps travel, seasonal and small businesses to cope with this crisis. It is difficult to understand the right-wing government's reluctance to secure the power-generating industry in the whole country's long-term, equivalent conditions of competition with the rest of Europe. Germany and France still have up to 90 pst. reduction in the network price for this industry. In Norway this is now down to 60 pst. This is very distorting. Investments are not in Norway. Other enterprises receive compensation schemes. At the same time, the power-processing industry is subject to a million-dollar impact on its current calculation. Why will the government and the Progress Party not have green Norwegian industry, built on Norwegian renewable hydropower? And why is nothing happening to speed up the upgrading of our hydroelectric power plants? More renewable energy for already developed hydropower is positive for both the climate and the natural environment as well as for employment and value creation throughout Norway. All parties say they are for this. Most people even have it fixed – and then they also have to vote in favour of such a proposal. Our proposal is very simple: to change the arrangements for the rent tax, to set the level of the risk premium so that the normal return is screened and the superprofit is taxed. Many larger enterprises are in a demanding liquidity situation after the corona. Higher aid intensities are also necessary for large enterprises in order to increase their strategic investment, for example: in the eco-innovation scheme of Innovation Norway. And immediate action must be taken to maintain the research and innovation activity of the ongoing research and innovation projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2609	One of the most successful we did after the financial crisis in the period 2005-2009 was to actively use municipalities in countercyclical policies. It was unbureaucratic, it was simple and got big and small projects around the whole of Norway that created activity for the construction industry, carpenters and others. The size of the store agreed earlier that we would spend at least 4 billion. kr on it, but for some reason the government didn't want to follow it up, and it only came to $2.50. kr to the municipalities. Many municipalities have so much uncertainty about their economy that instead of investing, instead of maintaining, instead of starting road projects and doing other small measures, it is slowed down. This is strongly contrary to what the Stortinget really wanted, and I believe that there has been a serious misassessment by the Right-Registration, with the help of the Support Party, the Advance Party. There is something I would like to say in this debate, because in the debate following the package for the shipbuilding industry – it was about the oil and gas industry – there have been some comments. It was about the fact that it was very economically irresponsible and incomprehensible what the Storting does for the oil and gas industry, that it is kind of subsidising an industry. At least we have to be honest about what this is about, about the importance of Norwegian oil and gas industries in fact, and what values the industry gives us all. I want to illustrate it, because there are none of the parties in this house that have criticised the package that wanted to spend less oil money. I just want to illustrate in this year's budget how much oil money we spend: the entire defence of Norway is financed with oil money – 61 billion. kr. All of our universities and colleges are funded by oil money – 39.6 billion. kr. The full budget of the police and prosecution authorities is financed as follows – 22 billion. kr. All road and rail development and maintenance in Norway is financed in this way – 63.5 billion. kr. We have still not mentioned all the oil money we have used. It's funding child welfare – $16.5 billion. kr. In addition, oil money finances child protection, agriculture, rescue services and courts by 34 billion. kr and all the package of measures we have come with – 484 billion. kr. The discussion that there is a major subsidisation of the oil and gas industry has been completely unsuccessful. It is thanks to the oil and gas industries that we have the opportunity to do the measures we actually do. I also see many dilemmas if we are unable to convert, if we are unable to bring down Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, but there are also some of the great opportunities in the oil and gas industries. Those who are bold enough to say that we operate and provide a rescue package for an unprofitable industry must read the budget data, because there is no other industry that is more profitable for Norwegian society than the oil and gas industry. Equinor alone has paid more to the community than any other industry in Norway — one company that has paid more in all years than any other industry. You might like that or you might not like that, but that's a fact. Then we also have to be grateful that we have the industry that finances the efforts that we are all so concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2628	We all agree that the most important thing now is to get a permit and a job vacancy again. It's important. If the sky-high time off lasts a long time, it becomes much harder to beat it back. That is why the Workers' Party's proposal is so central today – security for jobs and health and to ensure small differences between people. The latter has not been mentioned by any of the main speakers of the right-wing parties at all in the debate today, nor has there been any point in the crisis packages. The answer from the right-hand side is by default that the most important thing for small differences is getting people to work. Yes, the right thing – work is an important foundation. But it's not enough for the differences in society to be small. It is also about fiscal policy, fiscal policy and income policy. This is where the right-hand side closes its eyes, because the tax policy that this government has led has increased the differences, not reduced them. And the jam they brought in new cuts in the property tax this time as well. Tripartite cooperation is another important prerequisite. It has been invaluable in previous economic crises. There are some of us who remember how the solidarity option got right back to the land after the Willoch government ran the economy in the ditch in the 1980s. A government has a special responsibility to support this work, but this government did not even bother to talk to employees’ organisations prior to the first crisis package – only the employers. It may not be so surprising from a government that, in the governance framework, recognizes the unorganised working life – not surprisingly, but extremely harmful. One of the most important economic policies to contribute to is a society where the differences between people are small and people's opportunities are great. This is particularly important in times of crisis. Therefore, throughout the crisis management, the Workers' Party has stressed that the costs of the crisis should not be borne by everyone, while the economic benefits can be small. That is why we have wanted to prevent support for companies from being turned into larger management bonuses and dividends while they are receiving support, but that would not be on the right-hand side. That's how we could meet the crisis of solidarity, while stopping the fall in the economy and leaving the foundation for us to quickly recover. When society shut down, more than 300,000 lay off. Although some are now fortunately back to work, unemployment will be unusually high next year as well. Norway’s Bank estimates 3.8 pst. This isn't over. This will continue to have major consequences for individuals and their families, but also for the country’s ability to create value and distribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2641	The revised budget and the agreement on the crisis package we are dealing with today are clear signs that the blue colour is back in the priorities of the four right-hand parties, on the right-hand side, with Erna Solberg at the head, distributing tax cuts to the richest of the country, while ordinary people are waiting for day money and wage compensation. The last crisis package being dealt with here today has a price tag of over 30 billion. kr after agreement with the Progress Party. Of course, it is entries in as large a sum as the Workers' Party supports. Nevertheless, we believe that the crisis package lacks the most important thing, namely social justice. We already know that the crisis we are facing is particularly affecting young people and low-paid people with short education. Then it is doubtful that the government's crisis response increases the burden on them by little, and facilitates it for them by much. The most unfair proposal has been discussed here and is about the wealth tax that was cut off in the revised national budget. The working party thinks it is good that people with a lot of money and wealth contribute over the tax bill. The right has never been able to show how cut in this tax creates jobs, but continues to cut the tax bill for the richest of the country in this budget. At the same time, the state, that is, all of us in common, has spent enormous sums on crisis support for businesses. There is still no requirement to stop large dividends, bonuses or executive salaries. After the last financial crisis, we saw that unprofessional players got into the labour market, and with as much support for business as we have now, there should have been a stronger protection against abuse, so that the serious businesses win. Nevertheless, there is no strengthening of the fight against crime at work in the crisis package of the government. In addition, there is an even more uneven burden-sharing between enterprises and employees. Workers are paid fewer days with full pay, while companies are paid less. It is also beyond my comprehension that, at a time when unemployment has been highest since the Second World War, we have a government that proposes zero new places on labour market measures in its draft budget. In sum, this draws a picture of a right-wing government that is recovering to the blue color after a little social democratic spring in the Great Britain – if we can say so – and that with politics now actively contributes to increasing the economic differences between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2652	It's the government's clear goal that after the pandemic, we're going to have a cultural sector that's at least as good as the one we had before the Korona era. Art and culture make important contributions to a living democracy in which everyone can freely express himself and where diversity, creativity and creativity are highly valued. Fortunately, now museums have begun to open again, and some concerts and stage art performances are conducted on a smaller scale, but much has been cancelled, and the future is most uncertain. Without artists we don't get a concert, without a rigging company we don't get scenes, without a sound and light company we lose those who are going to make sure a concert can be done. There are no scenes to perform culture without a performance room. The music industry is a complex and fine-skinned food chain that extends from artist to organizer, booking and artist management. Fortunately, we have put in place general arrangements to remedy the situation of both businesses, freelancers and self-employed people, and the government has put in place a good arrangement for cultural organisers to compensate for the loss of tickets and additional costs resulting from cancellation, suspension and closure. In total, the schemes compensate for around 1.2 billion. kr from 5 March to 31 August. The decision we are making today will include the subcontractors in the music industry. This includes providers of sound, light, rigging and premises. But we're not on target. We from the government parties and the Progress Party will signal that we are working to include more in the food chain and the business around the artists, such as. booking and artist management. It is necessary for this industry to get on its feet. The government has also set a total of 100 million. to ensure that musicians, writers, artists, stage artists and film artists can continue their artistic activities in the future. Voluntary activities are also an important part of the cultural and sporting sector, and the government has therefore provided a compensation scheme for volunteering and sport of €1.8 billion. kr. It'll be fine. The government – and this budget and the crisis packages – now facilitates the stimulation of activity, and the government has announced in the bill that they will come back with an assessment of the need to extend the compensation schemes for the cultural sector in the period after 1 September. We don't know much about what's coming in the future, but we're going to hope that the infection numbers stay down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2672	The working party made sure that the first crisis packages had a clearer social profile. It is clear that workers with low income and low education were hit hardest. The most important thing for us was to take care of vulnerable groups. The next thing was to ensure transport for critical community services, but for the Workers' Party, work is for every job number one. When private business is affected, the public must contribute more by keeping an even higher level of activity. We need to build roads, ports, railways, race and flood protection – the list is endless about flaws that can be fixed, while the lay-offs come to work. Municipalities and counties have pot-ready projects that can be realized, but they need money. The construction industry does not ask for more money, but for a job. We recently made a number of proposals to make the Norwegian construction industry more competitive when the transport project is published. These are concrete measures that have been mentioned by the construction industry for several years. Unfortunately, the proposals were voted down by the government parties and the Progress Party. In addition, when we can read in the revised national budget that the government claims that the operators in the construction industry are still waiting for full capacity utilisation in the next 18 months, I really wonder where the government is. For the past few weeks, we have had dialogue with the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs, the Entrepreneur Association – Construction and Construction and Trade Unions. All of them say something completely different to us, and there have been several articles in the media about the same thing. Our small and medium-sized enterprises across the country are struggling, and in some regions they are alerting crises, especially in North Norway and Rogaland. Immediate measures are necessary in times of crisis to assist those who are completely or partly without income, but the socio-economic consequences can be disastrous if, in times of crisis, there is no incentive for increased value creation and more jobs. Then one should expect the government to listen to the entire construction industry and not just a few large ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2685	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that we are now getting some kind of predictability for the marine communities. It has been the aim of the Workers' Party all the time — to put in place a system that provides predictable, stable income for municipalities, regardless of when it is growing. Then I register that the representative Margunn Ebbesen from the Right is trying to cast doubt on what the Workers' Party believes in the matter. There is therefore no reason – the Labour Party is clear about what is most important to us there. But what has been an important topic here today, and which has not such predictable and stable conditions, is travel life. This is an industry that is amazing. It offers such great opportunities for both city and country, and it creates important jobs across the country. It is an industry that is largely built on local initiatives, regional initiatives, regional and local resources. It is one of the reasons for and the success of North Lysturism – that they have worked locally and regionally. The problem is that before the crisis came, travel life did not have the framework conditions, the focus the industry deserves. Then came the crisis, and it hit so hard. I am concerned that the industry is not getting the attention it needs now, the means it needs to cope with this crisis, so that it can once again continue the fantastic work where Norway has the best chance of succeeding in the future. I hope that you, for example. Considers very strongly, if possible, the possibility of opening up to countries such as Germany. It will help to save parts of the summer season. It's incredibly important. I hope you think carefully about it again even when it comes to the permitting system. It is not useful to be passive in this room and say to look at instruments in the future. We know that this industry is now facing major challenges, and it's a lot about many people who are out of work quickly in the summer if you don't take action now. Before we shut down Norway, Tromsø, where I live, was full of tourists. It smeared everywhere. The hotels were packed. The same was true of the restaurants and the streets. I hope the Storting together can help to ensure that when you get past this crisis, there will again be plenty of tourists in Tromsø, in Bergen, in Stavanger and not least in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2702	It has been the privilege of the Progress Party as an opposition party, as it was also for the Christian People's Party for six years, to put its mark on the negotiated agreement on the RNB. However, I am pleased that the consensus that has been reached on important industrial policy issues is good and proper priorities also from the stand of the Christian People's Party. With regard to what the Storting will adopt today, I would therefore like to mention in particular some points that are also important to us in the Christian People's Party as part of the negotiated agreement. It is now quite exactly two years since the Christian People's Party proposed that the government should seek out a top finance scheme for short sea shipping to trigger the construction of new and more environmentally friendly ships and come back to Stortinget with one thing about it. Our proposal was unanimously adopted, but it has taken time for the government to sign this out. That's why we in the Christian People's Party are very happy to see that it is now not just being investigated, but implemented as part of the measures to help a hard-pressed shipping industry and a yard industry experiencing word-darkness as a result of the coronary apathy. The Government's proposal for a revised national budget proposed the establishment of a new green fleet renewal loan scheme for short sea shipping and fishing vessels. The government's proposal was a $300 million loan framework. kr. The agreement now concluded between the Government Parties and the Advance Party doubles the framework of this Top Financing Facility for new environmentally friendly ships in short sea shipping and fishing vessels to 600 million. kr. We in the Christian People's Party are very pleased with that, although we would have liked to see that the Advance Party gave us drag help with this matter at an earlier time, when they were in government and had the Ministry of Finance as their domain. We are eternally satisfied with the removal of ceilings in the net pay system for NOR ships operating in petroleum, NIS construction ships and NIS ships in the 4th semester 2020. It is also important that the agreed agreement on RNB 2020 clears all doubts regarding VAT compensation to municipalities in the context of the enhancement of the fishing port project and fairway measures. It will be ensured that the Coastal Plant represents future payments under the Value Added Tax Netation Scheme of the State. For those projects where this has been unclear, the municipalities have been waiting to start the work. So now it's just getting started, and it's really a good news both for the municipalities and for the fishing industry. Finally, on behalf of 5,800 inhabitants of my home municipality, Averøy, and 24,200 inhabitants of Kristiansund, I am very pleased that the government parties and the Progress Party have invested funds in the revised national budget which will allow the elimination of toll collection for passage of the Atlantic Tunnel. This is the road link between Averøya and the northern marsh town of Kristiansund, and there is a typical commuter connection, with relatively little long-distance traffic, between two neighbouring municipalities. When the toll station is removed, it is important for two reasons. It will significantly strengthen the housing situation in the two municipalities and bind them more closely together as a common housing and work area. In addition, there will be a loving relief in the family economy for many who now experience considerable uncertainty about the possibility of keeping the job or getting back into permanent work after long-term leavement as a result of the coronary apathy. So thank you – and welcome to Norway's vacation to beautiful Averøy, where it is now free to drive both the Atlantic and Atlantic routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2717	‘It’s not called: I – now. It's called "we." That's what Halldis Moren Vesaas wrote in the poem "Heavy Time Speech", which was published in 1945. It was a time for vi-sensus, it was the basis for the reconstruction of the country, and the poem is now more relevant than for a long time. Then we must show the strength and solidarity of all those who are now the hardest hit, and they are the ones without income and work. Young people, apprentices and unskilled people are those who are the weakest and at the back of the unemployment line and who do not have the skills that are now sought from business. When we are dealing with RNB today, the Workers' Party proposes an additional billion to the municipalities to cover exceptional costs that schools have incurred in the context of the coronary crisis. The school should be a good place to be and a good place to learn. Then we have to ensure that municipalities, schools and teachers are provided with sufficient resources to solve their tasks, and that one can start the school year with certainty that one has sufficient resources to provide the young with good education and follow-up. The working party is concerned about the situation of many high school graduates, and we are therefore proposing 170 million. SEK to 1000 new teaching places in municipalities. The Labour Party believes that as a society, we need to take greater responsibility for completing our education as much as possible. It is important that there are subjects of health, care and growth that are given priority, because there is a great need for professionals, and it is important that recruitment does not stop. Higher vocational education is the vocational education of the labour market. The vocational schools further train skilled skilled workers of good quality and provide them with the skills that businesses are now looking for. The Labour Party proposed 1000 new posts in the budget for 2020 but was not supported by the Right and Government. When the report of competence Learn throughout life was discussed earlier this year, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party were given a majority in order to increase the number of places of study in the vocational schools by 2000 from the fall. The Labour Party is therefore very surprised and disappointed that the government does not follow up the Storting's order and the labour needs of the RNB. Last year, there were record high-skilled applicants for higher education. Many were unsolicited, while Norway has many young people outside studies or work. This has been further reinforced as a result of the Korona crisis, and this year more than 150,000 people have applied for a place of study via the Coordinated Recording, which is 12,000 more than last year, and an increase of a total of 8.7 pst. Education needs are high, and Norway needs more professionals and more skills to return to society after the Korona crisis. Several places of study are investment in the industries of the future, technology development and the skills of the welfare state. This promise will allow more people to study and make it easier for the unemployed and others outside the labour market to secure the skills that business needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2734	The Petroleum industry is Norway's second largest and most important industry and provides high incomes to the welfare state and employment throughout the country. Due to the covid-l9 and the oil price, the situation for Norwegian petroleum industry is now challenging. I want to draw out two additional permissions in RNB. The one is the test centre at Mongstad, with 50 million. kr, and that Gassnova concludes a further operation agreement. In addition, a further 70 million is proposed. kr for the mapping of marine bottom minerals and increased knowledge of exploration and extraction technologies. So why am I pulling these two out? Well, because they're important -- not because they're so big in sum, but because it gives important signals. In my region, North Hordland, before the corona and the fall in the oil price, there was a great need for labour. If a large part of the development plans that our business had at the time, in March, continue, we'll actually be freed from labour because of unemployment now. The big challenge is whether people have the right or the necessary skills. All the 225 000 women and men working in the oil and gas industries, including the 90 000 who work in the maritime industry, are central to moving knowledge and experience from fossil to viable. Support for empowerment and advice will be important to support our innovation initiative. The government's oil package is an investment in companies to secure future jobs along our entire coast. It is an important contribution to the companies that develop cutting-edge, environmentally friendly technologies. It helps us to develop and maintain a high-tech environment of excellence that is particularly important in the green transition. The challenges we had before the coronary crisis have not disappeared, but they do not have the possibilities either. On the way out of the crisis, we're going to have a future, we're going to solve the climate challenges, we're going to get more jobs, and we're going to make sure that the next generation gets an even better starting point than what we've got.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2749	Hydropower expansion provided the basis for what we know today in Norway. By taming the foot and the river, we became a leading energy nation. Over 100 years ago, wise predecessors in this room passed legislation that stands out well today. The hydropower provided the basis for the industrial journey. Pure, renewable and reasonable power has been the main competitive advantage for our power-generating industry. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that this remain an overall objective of our energy policy. We are therefore very concerned about yesterday's decision in Statnett on a change in net tariff. In general, network rental is reduced somewhat, but at the same time it reduces the discount that power-generating industries have benefited from for many years. Hydro alone states that this will incur additional costs of 250 million. kr. Similarly, we hear from the process industry all over the country. The Labour Party has therefore put forward proposals to address legislative and regulatory changes that ensure a level of tariffs for industry that will continue the competitive advantage we have so far. This is, in fact, a crucial condition for Norwegian industry to have good and stable framework conditions and for one to go ahead in the green shift. We can still get more out of our existing hydropower plant. Many of our hydropower plants are old. They are well maintained, but more are now approaching technical lifetimes. Upgrading a number of these will be socially viable. That would be very wise at a time when we have big and demanding debates on other sources of power, including wind power on land, a theme that we will return to later today. The potential for increased production through upgrading and extension of existing installations will be around 5 to 6 TWh. There may not be an enormous amount in a country that uses almost 150 TWh a year, but it is in return a low-hanging fruit. According to almost all operators in the industry, what has prevented power plant owners from exploiting this potential is the level of income from land interest tax. We want a greater part to be screened before it comes to taxation. This will provide the economic space for action that makes it profitable for power companies to upgrade and renew existing hydropower plants. Therefore, in concrete terms, we have made proposals to determine the free income of the interest rate tax as the sum of a risk-free interest rate equal to the government bond rate of 10 years. In addition, there is a risk premium. In this way, normal returns will be screened and extraordinary returns taxed. In an energy system with an increasing element of unregulated power generation, hydropower appears to be the most flexible renewable source. Bringing more power out of hydropower will also allow for further use of other renewable sources, which will be positive for both the climate and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2760	During this crisis, we have seen one of the best things about our country: the ability to come together and promise together. But we have unfortunately also seen that someone has been particularly hit, without the government being able to catch them up. Good luck hasn't been for everyone. This applies to many of the fields in which I work, businesses and workers in cultural life, not least vulnerable children and families, children and women who have had to spend more time in their homes with violent perpetrators, without the government having equiped them neither with child protection, police work against violence in close relationships or crisis centres, or children with great needs for care who have lost their offers without the government giving them the resources they need to follow up. It suggests SV to do something about it today. We want the crisis centres to be defined as a societally critical function and to provide additional funds. It makes the impression of talking to people in cultural life who are still on the bar. I was at my first concert after the Corona arrived, yesterday. It was very good, but with an audience of max. 200 and a meter away, no one must believe that the crisis in cultural life is over. The losses from the last period are so great, and it is likely that the measures of infection will continue to make it impossible for cultural life to operate as normal for a long time to come. It is therefore serious that the government and the Minister of Culture have systematically delivered too little and too late, even today. Although people in cultural life have cried out for months for necessary changes, adjustments and reinforcements of the compensation scheme for culture, although SV has proposed changes repeatedly, the government continues to block targets. Today, the compensation scheme for culture is extended to include stage technicians. That's good, it should just be missing. But nevertheless, since the proposal and the government only mention this group, all the others still stand without compensation for the lost, like the artists, just to mention a group that does not receive compensation. But you need music to have a concert. The SV therefore proposes to increase the arrangements for cultural life by half a billion and states that compensation should apply to the entire value chain, including the musicians. But we have to think forward. The crisis will remain in a partially closed cultural life for a long time. New contagion waves can come. That is why we need a cultural preparedness plan in the future, a toolbox of tools that we can put in if required, which will provide predictability for small and large actors in cultural life. That's what the leadership of cultural life needs now, which has so sorely lacked from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2771	In response to the worst crisis in Norway since the midwar years, the Stortinget has responded by now adopting four major crisis packages, to help individuals and businesses through the acute phase, to secure income, to prevent bankruptcy and to help people get back to work. Now we're going to take the next step and show the way out of the crisis through several new measures in the revised national budget and the Phase 3 proposal. Fortunately, there is a positive development in the pandemic. We have reasonably good control of the infection, but as we now open up, there is also a risk of blooming, because the virus is still there. Therefore, we still need to have the necessary precautions to avoid new setbacks. How deep this decline will be, we don't know yet. Nor do we know how long the downturn will be, whether and how fast the world economy will take up. How many companies will be able to cope? How many of the hundreds of thousands who are hit by leave now will be able to get back to work? All we know is that most things are uncertain. That means that the heaviest challenges can lie ahead of us. We could go from the coronary crisis to the job crisis, because it's not just the coronary crisis alone that makes the situation dramatic for Norway. It's the combination with the big oil price drop and the international low economic cycle. Before the coronary eruption hit us, the action space in the Norwegian economy was about 3.4 billion. kr. Only the green investment package is of greater economic importance than the entire space for action. At the same time, the basic challenges of the Norwegian economy are still there and have to be solved. That means major migration challenges in the future. Fortunately, the government provided a responsible use of money as it was good times. It has made us have resources to deploy when the virus hit, and for further action. So the biggest challenge will be to succeed in creating more jobs in the private sector to finance well-being in the future. We have to create more and include more. The way out of the crisis is to get people back to work, secure more legs to stand on, create a green future, continue to bet on knowledge and competence and include more. That crisis has shown us is how important the private sector is. A month of closed businesses has cost us hundreds of billion dollars. Nine out of ten lay-offs are in the private sector. The jobs we lose in private companies must be replaced by new private jobs. This is why we know that a policy that facilitates growth and activity is more important than ever — no more tax and increased burdens and a public sector that is escalating. But we have to deal with this. Together, we're going to continue our efforts, and together, we're going to get back to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2784	The oil industry is getting more than they themselves are asking for in a crisis package, and this is expensive. The reason is that we have to keep these workplaces, and I shouldn't be the one standing here saying this is wrong. However, when almost all conference hotels have merged on a letter of hoarding and government, it is impossible not to see from that letter that the business community now needs, that it is going to be careful for a longer period of leave before summer. The chief trust officer at REC Solar in Kristiansand contacted me a few days ago. This factory is highly viable for the future. The owners have made investments in the factory for 280 million. NOK Norwegian kroner, with support from Enova. The conversion in which they invested will be delayed due to the covid-19 pandemic, but will be ready in November this year. If the period of leave before the summer is no longer conservative, this factory must reduce its competent labour force. This is not much to ask for. In earlier times of crisis, permitting legislation has been extended. It is incomprehensible to me that the government cannot do this more carefully before the summer. The current crisis policy is directly unsocial. The government will not bring a particular number of workers with this social policy. There is good reason to fear long-term unemployment among those who get cut off in daily allowances, and especially for apprentices – or rather: those who should have had a learning space now in the fall. Only in electrology, one third of the apprenticeships say that they cut the apprentice intake. This is what the government should make sure to address. The consequences of a dramatically lower apprentice intake now in the fall are serious. I think it's more serious than many people in this room see. In addition to this, only parents on transitional benefits have to get the same extension as people on redundancy pay. They must have a real chance of securing income for themselves and the family. This possibility is not something to boast about because the kindergartens have been connected in the middle of an examination period. It should have a good height for it, and so we have in SV put forward proposals on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2797	In the last few months, we've seen a big change in people's travel patterns. New solutions have emerged that are likely to stand even after the coronary situation is over. The centre party is a champion of job decentralization, and we want to give people the opportunity to live throughout the country. Now, when we see that companies like Telenor are warning employees that they themselves should be able to choose whether to have a home office, it really means that jobs can be decentralized all the way home to where people want to live. The billions of dollars spent each year on transport are very long-term investments. When we adopt large investment projects, we have to ask ourselves whether the need we see today will also be the need of 10, 15 or 20 years. If a large proportion of workers can choose a more flexible working time, more use of home offices and the use of good collective solutions, there will be less need for increased capacity on public transport and roads – perhaps especially in and around the largest cities, where the challenges are greatest. There is a high cost of expanding infrastructure that is dimensioned by the peaks – the few hours during the day when very many take the bus and the track. When a number of teams can carry out meeting activities at Teams, there will be less need to travel between the largest cities and perhaps even more flexible use of working time during the day. Where many people in the past spent an entire working day on a job trip for a short meeting, we have recently seen that such meetings can be carried out on Teams and Skype and other solutions. When we invest in infrastructure, we have to constantly ask ourselves what is the real need. It's not an end in itself to build as much and as much as possible, but it's an objective that people should get quickly and efficiently to and from when to travel. Investment in infrastructure needs to be seen as a whole, and the various sectors need to be viewed in a coherent way. The centre party has long called for the State to take greater responsibility for the expansion of broadband. More money for broadband development can reduce the need to spend money on other infrastructure. Access to high-speed broadband reduces the need for travel. It is also very important to have control over future technologies in this context. The centre party believes broadband is a very basic infrastructure, in line with the installed water and electricity. The central party believes that giving all households throughout Norway access to the fast and stable Internet is an investment in the future. This allows businesses to live, live and operate throughout the country, and the Centre Party believes that broadband development in areas where this is not commercially profitable is too slow. We are therefore proposing to increase the allocation of broadband in those parts of the country where it is not commercially profitable, by 94 million. kr in this budget – a total of 500 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2812	We in the Labour Party have decided: it is time for action and concrete investment in building new renewable industries. Now it's like everything that's torn by wood material from e.g. Houses – planks and building materials – are being sent to waste facilities in Norway and, unfortunately, are being burned to a great extent. It's materials equal to 2 million. tonnes of CO 2 per year. Instead of burning it, we want to build new values and create modern products from this amazing raw material. The best news is that with industry, in partnership with skilled industrial workers, we can achieve this improvement with relatively small resources. A total investment of 250 million. kr will need a contribution from the State of 80 million. kr. We want to get Stortinget to start this job with an investment in bioeconomy of 20 million. kr. At Braskereidfoss, the industrial recovery of wood is currently planned. This means that it has to be cleaned so clean that neither plastic, paper, metal or other substances can destroy the machines or prevent the quality of the products we want. It is inspiring to see the long-term ideas that exist in many forest industry companies, but, as we know, there is a gap in our common instrument that causes many of the industrial investments that are potters and have a market to be absent. This is our investment country needs. Unfortunately, last year we got the biggest deficit Norway has ever had in trade with the rest of the world when we correct for the export of oil and gas. Our deficit in trade with the rest of the world was 375 billion. kr. There is also a need for more jobs with a wage to live on. In the area in question, it's 40 pst, completely independent of the corona situation. of the working-age population who are unemployed — in a normal situation. Increased activity, greater mobility and optimism could create a broad range of labour markets that are incredibly important for the future and for strengthening our welfare state. I saw the Minister of Finance here instead. If I had been him, I would whisper to the Minister of Industry that today I have heard of one of the most effective climate projects, and that we are now in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2829	From the introduction of the phase 2 crisis package, we have seen that the compensation system has been very little accurate. We see that it has suffered unfairly in many ways, and that it is structured in a way that favours larger businesses and discriminates against small businesses and individuals. SV believes that we can distribute the goods in a fairer way so that the smaller businesses get through the crisis in a better way. That is why we want to investigate the scheme, use the experience we have gained in the previous round, and learn from the many feedback we have received. We see an uprising among the people in small businesses out there who react strongly to the government giving the oil industry huge tax relief while ordinary workers live almost from hand to mouth, waiting for money from Nav. We cannot be acquainted with such a way of treating people in one of the richest countries in the world. We are concerned that the compensation scheme is unfair and can contribute to more people falling out of work. Many of them have been spending their savings – but many have not had savings to bear – because they have been waiting for the new daily allowance scheme to come into effect. The scheme also threatens the broad business community we have in Norway with many small players. Today, many have individual enterprises as a part-time job to get the wheels to walk around. Although there may be a secondary income, it is a very important source of income for them. Then it is quite serious to experience that many lose several thousand kroner in income each month because the government shuts down the businesses without being compensated for it. This concerns many people in our country, and we have to take them into account. They have been part of what the Prime Minister has called 'the great virtue', but I never think their idea was that they would voluntarily lose their income in taking the social responsibility that they have done. Also seasonal businesses and the local travel industry have really come to know how rigid the rules for compensation schemes have been. This goes all over the community because important businesses don't come along. Trysil is a good example of that, and we want to extend a great thank you to the commitment people in Trysil have shown to focus on that matter. In agriculture, there are many part-time farmers who have to have a job alongside the farm because of the large pay gap. We believe that hard-working people should not lose money because they have more jobs besides. There are many around this country who should have received compensation, but who do not get it because of the rigid legislation. The finance minister said they would be willing to adjust the scheme, but it has proved to be just empty words. It hasn't exactly lacked commitment, because I've been contacted almost daily by people who don't get support, but who absolutely should have got it, perhaps especially in the fields of culture, sport and volunteering. There have been signing campaigns, protests and media petitions, but when the majority on the Stortinget, including the Workers' Party and the Center Party, goes to the negotiating table, you hear more about the oil lobby than about ordinary people. It is disappointing and we expect better solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2844	In March and April, 24 300 fewer operations and 294,000 fewer day-care were carried out in hospitals than in the previous year. The Medical Association has said that they fear an unmanageable situation. A large study says that it will take many years to deal with the retardation in the health care system. Health care providers are still outsourced to test — despite the fact that the Health Directorate has clearly recommended that the school health service should return to normal operation. The health service is not back in normal operation. It's time to raise your eyes. When we had to shut down in March, it turned out that we had huge holes in our emergency plans. Then we had to find immediate solutions. It is now time to move from immediate handling to long-term planning. How should we best care for Granny if we reintroduce strict measures? What are the plans to secure maternity wards throughout the country whose health professionals are quarantined? How should we compensate employees who have worked day and night? What are we going to do to make them work in hospitals even after the summer? In particular, what are the plans for the treatment of all those who need it but who have not received it? This applies to: psychiatry and psychiatry children in schools that need health care Rehabilitation after impact many others who have not received what they need We have to raise our eyes. We should never have had these holes in our contingency plans before the pandemic hit Norway. I hope that all the parties will vote in favour of the proposals from SV, which have a long-term plan with StatMed, emergency room for medicine, more people at work in health care with entire, permanent jobs and vaccination program for adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2870	I want to start by thanking the more than 200,000 professionals who work in our biggest industry. They're on the line for our common well-being; they've helped build an oil fund of 10,000 billion. kr, which now saves AS Norway indebtedly through the crisis. Thank you! Of course, now we have to set up to secure their jobs, it should just be lacking, because they deserve it and because we need the skills and the capital to create profitable green jobs. Norway needs more legs to stand on. We have to use the time ahead to build new green industry. For this reason, the cooperation parties have presented green actions for SEK 4.9 billion. kr. We've already set in motion the world's largest floating sea wind farm. Now we open two new areas just outside the West Coast. In revision we strengthen the industry's work on offshore wind. Of course, the hydrogen strategy is followed up by 100 million. kr i support for concrete projects. It's going to be 100 million. kr to the government's circular economy strategy, which is about making better use of the products and getting more out of less. We keep full progress on carbon capture and storage and are heavy on green shipping. One of the best news is that this year, a total of 1 billion is coming. kr of increased grants, capital investment, to Nysnø climate investments in Stavanger energy capital. It's about using the market to accelerate the green shift, create safe, profitable green jobs and revenues for the community. In a crisis like this, I'm proud to be Norwegian, not just because as a rogalending, I've grown up with the biggest industrial adventure in Norway's history in my own neighborhood that has created the income we're now using to save us through the crisis. I am proud to live in a country that is prepared for storms and is well equipped to help fellow people, families and businesses in both the city and the country. We take care of each other both because we want to and because we can afford it. We take care of the jobs we have, while building up new ones. It's Norway at its best. Good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2881	Today I want to talk about the efforts of city mothers during the coronary crisis, where the door-to-door work has meant a lot to all of us in the protection work. The aim of urban mothers in general is to isolate domestic women into society by means of other women in the community who speak the same language. Initiatives such as urban mothers do not just benefit from cheering up, we have to make sure that urban mothers can establish themselves in several municipalities around the country, and not just be a local action in Oslo. Why doesn't the Council of State agree to give city mothers the opportunity to establish themselves around the country? In recent years, we have proposed this in our alternative budget. The government has voted it down. Active involvement of mothers in local communities can prevent crime and the recruitment of the hard population. It may also be the beginning of the journey to qualify for work, so that more people can support themselves and get the freedom that many of us take for granted. After the NRK had a report in Dagsrevyen on the inquiring work of City Mothers in Groruddalen, the state councils came on the track and made a boast at the press conference. It's all right, but where's the money going? The importance of the grassroots work of urban mothers has proved decisive in the situation in which we stand, and they have received attention to their work. The government has proposed to increase the pot of non-governmental organisations that can contribute to information measures targeting the immigrant population on the coronary virus. We've suggested earmarking $2 million. NOK of this to city mothers, as the work they do is so crucial in the situation we are in. The government is very careful with party speeches on TV. Finally, I would like to refer to the debate on the Community proposal on Wednesday and to clarify that the Labour Party should vote in favour of proposal No. 24 on the designation of funds for volunteering centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2892	The justice and preparedness field is a very important area for Norwegian society. It's about the security itself, the most basic thing in society, that we can be safe. Citizens can live in safety. That is why I am very pleased that the Progress Party in the negotiations with the government parties has been able to see through to important points. I am very pleased that we have had a throughput to grant 25 million. More specifically, it aims to combat juvenile and gang crime in the capital. That, in conjunction with the fact that we have promoted ten concrete measures to stop recriminal crime in Oslo, which this House is about to deal with in the coming harvest, will be able to give a completely different targeted effort to stop this unacceptable crime which we see emerging in Oslo, and which unfortunately puts us more and more in the vicinity of what we refer to as 'Swedish states'. I'm very pleased that we've had the chance to build a Norwegian-Swedish police station at Magnormoen. It will also be important to stop cross-border crime. In the emergency field in particular, it is very important that we have had an impact of 30 million. kr more to the Civil Defense Department. Civil defence is part of the Norwegian preparedness that is being little talked about, but it is the civil defence that helps – no matter what kind of crisis it may be – in large and small crises and makes a contribution on behalf of society. It is important in crisis, but also in war, that we have a well-functioning civil defence. That is why I am pleased with that allocation. Maybe most of all, I'm glad we've got 32 million in place. to strengthen the content of the Taraldrud Police Emergency Centre. It's not about the buildings and facilities in the projects up there – it's delivered on time and price. It's a very good project, which I had the pleasure of getting through in this big deal when I was the Minister of Justice myself. But it's actually important that we also fill it with the content we need in order to deliver the terrorist preparedness that is necessary to stop and combat terrorism on Norwegian soil. We have received ominous signals that the government has not prioritised enough content of the national response resources to be on Taraldrud – warnings that we can risk being unable to deliver full force against terror 24/7. This additional appropriation must then benefit the content and not be misinterpreted by POD or others as part of the budget in order to complete the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2905	The centrum party is 100 years old today. 100 years ago, Norway had just undergone a major pandemic — Spanish disease. One million were infected and 15,000 died. More people died of Spanish disease than of the First and Second World Wars combined. According to the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, the health crisis is also today one of the most likely crises that will affect us as a society. And the corona virus has led to the largest closure of Norway after the war. Now we are discussing packages of measures to prevent and compensate for the personal and social economic consequences of the pandemic, and that is both important and correct. We should be happy that we're in a situation where we can do it. The biggest thing has to take inward that this health crisis we're up in, which was warned, as a society, we weren't good enough foreordained. We were helped by the fact that Norway has built a strong public health system, and that we are relatively a society of small differences, which is important in meeting the pandemic, according to researchers. But with today's policy, we know that the differences are increasing, and that our health care system is under pressure. Hospital policy is more individual-focused, it's not community law. Simple patient treatment is what pays off, and preparedness pays less. Now it is so that our hospital capacity is built down – 1 pst. patients are at any time in the corridor in the normal situation. We experience a lack of medicines even without a pandemic, and we don't even have a preparedness or national production of common infectious disease protection equipment. So during the pandemic, we had four weeks' hold for the normal use of mouthbands. That's serious. There's a reason to be impressed with one thing, and that's how health services have been working through the crisis. Our job at Stortinget now is to ensure that the health service gets back on its feet, that it gets the necessary framework, ensures a good content, safe treatment, that one takes on the retarded and not least strengthens the preparedness for the next time the country comes out in a health crisis. The centre batch suggests more measures to ensure this. We're supporting 600 million. kr more for public hospitals now. We suggest that hospitals should be fully compensated for additional costs and lost income. The same applies to the municipal health service. Our most important preparedness lies in the people, in the health professionals. Then we think that we shouldn't let newcomers go around without a job, but we have to increase the number of specialisations, LIS-like, in hospitals to 200, which is the recommended level. We also propose a marked commitment to the general medical services, so that we give priority to the health care core, so that we can give patients today help as needed and prepared in the event of new health crises.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2928	One of the largest and most important transport wins in the revised national budget, not only for the Progress Party, but for the whole of Norway, is that the work on the development of the double-track on the Dovreban is starting up again this year. It is important to maintain the progress plan to be completed until Åkersvika in 2026. The progress party is very pleased that for the second time we won this fight to start the double-track development of Hamar. The project was launched by the Minister of Transport of the Progress Party, Jon Georg Dale, and it came as lightning from the clear sky that the project stopped when the Progress Party left the government. In view of the fact that it was and is a good project that goes on the rails, with full cost control, it was very surprising. But the joy grew all the more and the cheer stood in the roof when we agreed with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left to start up again work. Now the Progress Party looks forward to the Minister of Transport telling BaneNor to restart the double-track development of Hamar, and we trust that it will happen as soon as possible – hopefully almost immediately – so that we do not lose more precious time than the months we have already lost. Another important national cause of happiness is the agreement to establish a single Norwegian-Swedish police station on the Swedish border, at Magnormoen. The station shall be located in the middle of the border – half in Norway and other half in Sweden. The project is already well established and well planned, so when the Stortinget today allocates 5 million. kr to ensure construction start, there is not even more money for plans and investigations. What remains now is a final and formal decision by the Norwegian and Swedish authorities, so that Eidskog Municipality and Eda Municipality can start work on detailed regulation, detailed planning and the construction of the police station itself and its contents, in cooperation with the police. We expect the government to give priority to this work, so that the police station can be completed in a few years. It is also important to be aware that it is not necessary to wait for all legal clarifications before starting. The police must already have the opportunity to prepare, so that they can be ready with important key personnel in good time before the station itself is finished. If the police have had time to prepare and employ the right key personnel, such a joint police station will produce positive results immediately after opening. A common police station will be groundbreaking in international police cooperation and will make the police better equipped to combat international crime, a form of crime that we unfortunately see is increasing. It is important to have control of borders, not only for those living in the neighbourhood, but especially for Norway as a nation and not least for us here, in the central eastern region, which unfortunately is at the heart of many of these international criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2943	Different parts of the Norwegian community have been affected by the covid-19 virus in different ways. Some have been hit by the decline in demand, others by the weakening of trade with the rest of the world, and some have been directly affected by decisions taken by politicians and authorities on the restriction of activity. Cultural life, sport, volunteering belong primarily to the last category. It's our concrete decisions that have affected these activities. The more we have a great responsibility to do all we can to ensure that these sectors get through the crisis well. Cultural life was brutally affected: concerts, theatre performances and voluntary cultural life were stopped overnight, and the food base was withdrawn. But from the first crisis package, the government's policy was that the sector that was now being hit did not understand how the food chains had been connected, not understanding how best to help get through the scheme. First, there was a ticket support scheme where the sum was set at NOK 25 000. Very many arrangements were not included in this help package. Then there was a lack of understanding that the food chain is long and complex, how many are interdependent, where event agencies, organizers, artistic content, technical staff and other subcontractors are needed. Only now, in the revised national budget, will a request decision be taken to include a limited group related to technical subcontracting in the aid package. A completely different and offensive effort is needed to ensure that we have a good cultural life afterwards. It is also incomprehensible that 200 consecutive pieces can be collected, repeatedly, on the same benches, on the same toilet, on the same rail, but not 200 in separate groups far apart, without risk of infection between the groups. Here, instead of being generous when sport, volunteering and culture come and ask for good solutions. Media is another industry that's hit. They are affected by other industries going badly. It's been a big ad failure. Once again, the package hits badly. The Labour Party is proposing 150 million. kr more in press support and compensation scheme. Voluntary action is also strongly affected. The size has decided unanimously that we should introduce full VAT compensation. The Labour Party says, "Let's do it now, so that we can help teams and associations all over Norway, and we've added 355 million." kr more into the budget. We need to take a much greater responsibility for the sectors that are specifically affected by the measures we have adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2962	This spring, the Storting has shown itself from its best side. When the pandemic hit and Norway was shut down, there was an overall increase in the initial crisis package, after which a large majority have gathered on the next package of measures. The goal of the Right and Government parties has always been to save as many jobs as possible across the country for Norway to have a sustainable business life now and in the future. It's in the business world the value creation happens. It is the fisherman who delivers the catch and the farmer that plants, sows and cares for his animals, who ensures that we have Norwegian food on the table. It is the oil worker who makes the pumps go, and the employees of the technology companies in places like Fornebu and Kongsberg who are developing new green solutions based on the knowledge of the oil adventure, and green sustainable solutions for future jobs are being developed. It's our job to contribute to the fact that as many of the healthy businesses we had before the pandemic can continue the good value creation when society opens up again. We're going to restore the everyday life that we had, and that most of us took as a matter of course, even if it probably gets a little bit different. Without savings in the oil fund, it would not have been possible for the Storting to do all the measures and contribute funds in the 100 billion class without borrowing. But it is not sustainable to empty the oil fund, nor is it solidarity with future generations. Therefore, it has been important for us that the measures in relation to the coronary apathy should be time-limited. We all live in a municipality, and in the revised national budget we lay the basis for taking back our daily lives. We give priority to hospitals, care centres and services for vulnerable children who need extra follow-up, and we temporarily reduce the employer’s fee. It has been and is important for us to ensure that the municipality will be compensated for the extra costs incurred by the municipality in connection with the pandemic. Municipalities shall continue to provide the good services they provided before the pandemic even when the pandemic is over. These are some of the multiple approaches that will help to get us all through the coronary crisis in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2973	The reason why I take the floor myself after a rather lengthy debate is to address a few issues. First of all, it seems to some speakers that the compensation scheme has been presented by the government, and to which the Stortinget has joined, is not the success you hope, because only 2.5 billion has been used. SEK of a frame of 50 billion. kr. Then I just have to make it clear that the frame is not 50 billion. kr, the estimate is 50 billion. kr, and it's out of May. The budget was 20. kr in the month out of May. It was an uncertain estimate, and that's what you were dealing with. It cannot be assumed that a payment of e.g.: 15 B.C.E. kr would have been a failure, and then a payment of 45 billion would have been. kr has been a huge success. It is not up to us to decide that companies should accept this support, it is the companies that voluntarily apply for the scheme and receive support based on it. To that it is also to say that we only now on Wednesday opened applications for the May month, a month when large parts of society were still shut down, so we must not forget that there are quite large time shifts in this system. It is still possible to apply from March and that deadline expires in September, so the scope of this scheme is not clarified in any way. As a general comment, it is not, of course, to make the most of the money available on a support scheme aimed at enterprises with so severe a loss of turnover. The best thing is if the system had never had to be set up, but when it is first here – which I think is good – I also believe that instead of reporting some kind of failure that the system is not used as much as estimated, we should pay tribute to the many traders who actually choose not to apply, because they want to get over the knee themselves. These owners are also quite a lot of them. Secondly, and I have said this before: we must not forget that even now with all the crisis measures we have put on the table, we are actually going back to the normal situation. A normal situation does not mean a lower employer's fee, a cut in low VAT, a postponement of taxes and taxes or major state measures. The normal situation is where we provide a policy that gives the private sector space for action and the willingness to create new jobs through better general framework conditions. To conclude, the Labour Party writes in its part of the position that they want predictability for both the aquaculture industry and municipalities in the case of the Marine Farm Fund. The only thing that can be predicted here is that the Workers' Party is unable to decide until the default election in 2021 and is thus making a new investigation into what is going to happen after 2022. It is neither courageous nor predictable for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e2989	In 1989 I first heard about a technology to capture and store CO 2. At that time, the construction of a polluting gas power station on the coast of More and Romsdal was discussed. A researcher at SINTEF in Trondheim thought this could be done without discharge. Fortunately, this gas power plant never got anything off, but hopefully we're closer to the realization of CO 2 capture and storage than ever. The size agreed earlier this year to have made an investment decision for the two carbon capture plants, Oslo and Brevik, in connection with the State budget for next year. It's an important milestone, but we have to make sure to keep pace up. In recent times, there have been doubts about the government's willingness to invest in both carbon capture plants. Those behind it have been asked to seek EU funding. The question that arises is whether this has been done to train the bet. The developers say that this can delay the projects by several years. That is why SV is proposing today that 400 million be allocated. kr, so that the waste facility in Oslo and the cement producers in Brevik can start the detailed planning of the plants. Today, SV is also proposing a separate 1-billion-dollar hydrogen fund. kr, a fund to ensure the production, distribution and use of hydrogen in Norway. Norway has unique opportunities to develop green and non-emission hydrogen. The hydrogen strategy that the government launched a little while ago was a gastric plaque. There's not one penny there, not a single obligatory measure that speeds up the hydrogen bet. SV's fund will allow the start-up of hydrogen production in Glomfjord. This hydrogen can then be used by the ferries that cross the Westfjord from Bodø to Lofoten, and it can be used for zero emissions on the Nordlandsbanen. We are faced with a possible green industrial conversion, a green new deal, which will cut emissions, create jobs and ensure fair distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3004	The oil and gas sector accounts for almost half of Norwegian export value. We've sometimes said that from here. But are there opportunities to take proper action for a green shift in energy and industry if we are to maintain Norwegian exports and Norway as a welfare nation? That question asked the NHO in a statement of intent in 2018. SINTEF, together with the NHO, has produced five reports that answer that question, and the answer must be yes. Today's debate must focus not only on acute crisis solutions but also on the major, long-term, existing challenges we are now facing. In practice, it is necessary to take the warnings from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the Natural Panel seriously. Is it perhaps just now that we're going to take some such strong grip and pick out some winners for the future, the ones we're going to bet on? SINTEF and many other research environments point to many possibilities, not least by turning the supply industry into green oil and gas. Norway is a small global economy, but we stand out as big in many areas: maritime and maritime industries, we have a lot of renewable energy, a high level of competence and a high degree of electrification. But we have something more. We have great confidence between the actors in the world of work and relatively small differences, up to now at least. This is actually a huge competitive advantage. Norway is in the driving seat with electrification, both at the car park and in ferry traffic, but we have not yet succeeded in doing so as an export industry. It's left over. The SINTEF reports show that there is a potential for value creation and employment that is large enough to replace the export value of oil and gas, just as SV has pointed out with greater and greater strength, now last through our major project called Green New Deal. But as known, ‘do not comb toe sail’. It has to work towards this goal, and Stortinget has to facilitate it. I would like to point out some fields where we should put in economic muscles right now, when the petroleum industry is in both a short-term and a long-term crisis, and many other industries are paralyzed by the coronary crisis. In the maritime industry and the global green shift, Norway can play a key role. All representatives now know that in one or two years we have over 60 electric ferries running over Norwegian fjords. In fact, the home market can be a fantastic laboratory and an exhibition window for development, innovation, production and finally export of that technology and products. We also see that on the globe – relatively much water there – the potential is quite enormous. I'll see if I get time to come back to some other points on the green shift, in another post.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3017	I fully agree with what has been said by many representatives from many parties during the day, that the work of the government in general and the Great Britain in particular in connection with the Korona crisis has been necessary and very correct. I have, as someone here knows, seen this from the outside over a few months, and it has looked very good. So I would say that I believe this has been successful because the right parties have also followed a social democratic economic philosophy by basically understanding that the market cannot solve these challenges without a very strong state and the state's involvement. And that's exactly what's happened, and that's what's the basic social-democratic thinking in the balance between the state, the public and the private. With it have some assumptions that it's worth mentioning at the end of this debate, before we're going out on vacation, and remind each other, and that's that you can't do this without a strong state. You can't do it without strong community. You wouldn't have done it, for example. had had a privatized health care system. We wouldn't have made it if it hadn't been built up a trust society, because we just have strong communities, and we wouldn't have made it if we hadn't had the oil fund – at least not this way. I say this because it is necessary to remind the right parties and in this context especially the Progress Party of their history in relation to the oil fund. They've been against it. And if they weren't against it, it shouldn't be used like that, because the oil money was to be used up there -- through the 1980s, the 1990s, and far into the 2000s. This is an example of a complete collapse in the economic philosophy of the right, especially the Advance Party. We've seen it in other contexts, but it's very clear through the current situation we've been through. The second aspect is, for example: The attack of the Workers' Party's industrial policy in general, as we also heard in the change of line with our parliamentary leader, who is incalculable. Because the Workers' Party has suggested that we should have this interaction, precisely because we should have a diverse business life. And then, unfortunately, the middle parties also agree that you start the inequality once again: relief in the wealth tax, but of course cut in the day money. At that time, the policy that was actually pursued in the policy of repairing the adverse effects of the corona epidemic is back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3030	We who have been sitting here on the Stortinget and seen the crisis packages when they arrived know that the Stortinget has changed them, as the representative Kolberg now said they have become, so that they have not become so socially skeptical. The only long-term and insanely expensive system adopted by the majority without SV's votes is the tax burden on the oil industry, which binds us to what we all know to end with, while the compensation system for the unemployed and for other businesses must be short-term. Someone is also standing completely without it. I get calls every day from companies that don't get, and I don't understand where you are, you who don't get it. It is also the Stortinget that has ensured that the local government sector has gained something more in the process. The government presented very little. It's very serious, because the municipal sector can be a flood protection against more unemployment. If we spend the money there, we know that there'll be jobs there, and we know that there'll be good things done. For example, a high level of maintenance in the municipal sector can be solved, a higher standard in the public sector, a better exit from the crisis, and people will have jobs and private enterprises will have earnings. We can tackle the water and sewerage sector, where we need to invest heavily in the future, and secure ourselves against extreme weather in the future and against pollution in water sources. People have jobs, businesses have jobs, and we get out of the crisis with better solutions. We could create a universally designed society, it's the jam of time, so we don't still discriminate against people who can't move like we do. Then there will be many jobs and a better society out of crisis afterwards. We could install elevators in many blocks so that more people could live at home, and we could bet on welfare technology in the municipal sector so that we could then meet the big tasks we have ahead in the municipal sector on this. So I guess I'm not that impressed. We could have invested in an increment as well and saved enormous amounts of electricity that we can use for positive things, for example. by rail. We have long distances in Norway where we lack electricity, and we even lack planning. Therefore, SV has proposed that we put money on the table now to be able to plan electrification of the Rørosbanen and Solørbanen. Then we can transport goods through the country without releasing CO 2, and there will be jam space on the road as well as possible to drive there. It's forward-looking. Then we had spent money wisely, invested in the future, got a modern, more climate-friendly society and got out of it with more jobs, both in the public sector, as we need in the care of the elderly, in schools, etc., and also in the private sector. It would have been a better solution than the government has put on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3044	Globally, almost total social suppression has now been implemented to control the spread of the corona virus. I would like to thank all the great trade union workers who have gone to work every day and who have made sure that the wheels have still been around. We've had food on the table, we've got running water and computer networks that work, and our health and care workers have taken care of those who need it the most – the list can be done very long. The point is that our tradesmen are gold worth, and society doesn't work without them. I've been genuinely concerned about all those who were in danger of not completing their apprenticeships, about those who could have problems getting a place to learn, and about our businesses, who are totally dependent on being able to recruit professional skills in the future. This applies both to those with vocational and bachelor's letters and to those with education from our vocational schools. Just a few weeks ago, there were 4,000 lay-out apprentices. There were new numbers this week, and it turns out that this number is now more than halved. But we have to make sure that even more people come back to work, and not least for more people to have a place to learn, and for more people to complete their education. In the revised national budget, in the Education promise of 2020 and in the last package of measures, the government has just made a significant effort to do so. It's set to a total of 850 million. DKr, e.g. to increase the apprenticeship grant, in order to recruit more places of learning, to the WorldSkills Educational Centre campaign, which offers more opportunities for completion of secondary education and for more people to take a job letter. Another important measure is the possibility that those who are currently on leave can actually undertake training while retaining their daily allowances. I read in Bergen's Official Journal as late as today about Nina, who was licensed from her hotel job. She had long wanted to take a letter, but had not had the opportunity to do so, but now she got it. As she says herself, as an unemployed person, the days are going to be very long, and then it's nice to have something constructive to do. With the letter, I will also make it stronger, and it will probably be an advantage in the future. I think Nina's right about that. What makes Nina able to take professional letters during the period of leave is one of the industry programmes that are now in place. The government has put a lot of emphasis on industry programmes in the past, but this is now considerably reinforced. We have a total of nine industry programmes. Most of them are at our colleges, and many of the new programmes have just arrived in industries that are heavily affected by the coronary crisis and the fall in oil prices. According to Competence Norway, for example: More than 2,500 people in the travel industry now applied for one of these industry programmes. It shows that the need is there, and when more people become more competent, both employees and businesses – in the tourism and other industries – will be stronger when we return to a normal everyday life. And that's exactly what the goal is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3061	The government that is now sitting — and also the previous one, with the Progress Party — has for a long time reduced its preparedness throughout Norway, and in particular the police have been razed and heavily centralized by a near-police reform that the government adopted with an ambition to create a close and present police force, but which has instead led to a police that is distant from people and which takes longer before something serious has happened. We in the Central Party are giving priority to preparedness in our alternative budget. We give priority to preparedness in many areas, because it is something that needs to be seen as a whole for more disciplines, but in the field of justice we give priority to, among other things. an increase in free resources for the police districts, we give priority to strengthening fire and rescue in Civil Defense, and we give priority to strengthening helicopter preparedness in North Norway with a multi-purpose helicopter stationed in Kirkenes. After all, we have been told that there will be a police report – which has been waiting for a few years – but if the government keeps its word this time, it will come before summer, that is. during the next two weeks. There will be an exciting message, where the Center Party expects the government to end with explanations of the poor results of the police in terms of being close and being present. In the nations a few days ago, Secretary of State Kleppen Sättem wrote that police reform is not a near-police reform; it ‘is primarily a quality reform’. He's trying to change the story by getting away from the fact that you've completely failed to deliver a police force that's present where people live. The close police reform adopted by the Stortinget with the Right, the Progress Party and the Labour Party was not primarily a quality reform, if you read the documents – it was primarily a reorganization of the police against which the Central Party warned, but which the government itself thought would lead to a closer police force. The document adopted at that time states, among other things: There is an ambition to significantly improve the response time to the police. It has been no longer than yesterday that the Police Directorate provided new figures on response time up to this year, in 2020, and it is clear that the response time has increased from the police reform to the date of adoption. So you've been able to spend a lot of money, rage the organization of the police into the negative of most of our country's inhabitants, as well as the achievement of not improving the results, but on the contrary, exacerbating them. We have previously challenged the Minister of Justice that the 400 temporary police posts due to the Korona must be made permanent. I am very disappointed that has not happened in this alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3076	I am pleased that both in the majority vote on the revised budget and in the comments of the Labour Party, emphasis is placed on recriminalism. That's all there's to it. The situation in the Oslo area is important for the whole country. We've now got a bunch that we've been afraid of for a long time, Satudarah, which is an international and dangerous MC-criminal crowd. The situation is also that Young Guns, an older group from the 1980s, now headquartered in Lørenskog, Romerike, strengthens and recruits young people. We have new, younger teams that everyone has probably read about in the media, like Young Bloods on Holmlia in the area of Oslo South, and we have even younger gangs on the Tøen and Greenland, among others. one that calls itself 313, where there have been a number of serious incidents between these frequencies in recent months. I am pleased that the Storting will be committed to making a better effort towards these serious relay environments, which can have a very crucial impact on development both in Oslo and elsewhere in the country ahead. The government parties and the majority add up to 25 million. NOK here, something also goes into the Workers' Party for its extra bet. You write that you're going to spend that money patrolling more often. I just want to say about the extra bet that it's important to understand that the gangs don't roll up by patrolling. Another type of quality is required in the effort, so I hope you will see how to use that money. The unit that does the most important job, which has done the most important job over many years, is called Special Operations. They are close to the crowds, have knowledge of them and know enough about how to work, to get them caught, prosecuted and convicted. This unit is halved, or they're far fewer than they were a few years ago, and they're used for a lot of different tasks now, so that the specific effort towards the rest of the world is weakened. That's what we need to strengthen, more than driving around the streets. Both parts are good, but we must be aware that the main characters here are not on a corner – they must be included in other working methods. It requires long-term work, and it's not done with $25 million. kr in year. The previous rendezvous project went over five years. It turned out that it was too short a time. We have to work long-term. Especially for the younger ones who have already become dangerous criminals, we need more places in what is called the Youth Unit, not normal prison, but in youth units, where they can get help to get out of their environments. We are proposing this today. And when they're going out of jail, out of prison, whether it's older gang criminals or these kids, they need an exit program, so they don't end up in the same environment, the same carousel. These things are missing in Norway today, so I hope the Stortinget will be able to follow up these proposals in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3085	I have comments on a few specific suggestions in the configuration. First to the air ambulance crisis and preparedness in the north: We have been promised several times by the government that the audit would contain an overview of the economic consequences of the emergency failure of the ambulance flows after the change of operator in 2019. It hasn't come. The majority has also decided that Kirkenes should receive an increase in intensity, i.e. respiratory therapy. We also asked what this would cost. There is also no money in the revised version, and we do not get answers to questions about what this sums up to. So we're forced to make a proposal to get an overview of these conditions, and that's very important, because unless you treat the patient and take the money from there. So for alcohol policy: I am surprised to learn that the government has decided to nullify two proposals adopted by the Storting: one proposal for a national alcohol strategy to be put before the Storing and one proposal to lift the decision to set up a public selection to assess the social consequences of alcohol use in society. I couldn't predict when the Christian People's Party went into government, that they themselves were going to be involved and zero out important proposals for alcohol policy, for which they got multiples together with us and the Workers' Party and SV. The centre party disagrees that these proposals should be cleared. The third thing I want to raise is that one has been a few things about in the negotiations with the Progress Party on a priority of a children's hospice in Kristiansand, with 30 million. kr in annual ear-marked funds on the State budget. This is an offer that is highly debated, and both professionals and relatives are critical. A lot of people want to bet on children's palliative teams, but this isn't worth a penny. The store has also been sent a big message about palliation, which is to be addressed to the cottage. Now we are getting this priority today, which in a way short-circuits the whole professional-political debate on how we want the palliative field to develop in the future. Barnehospice was also not recommended in the NOU on palliation that came in 2017. It is not recommended in the Health Directorate’s 2016 guidelines, and children’s scholarships are opposed. The reason is that seriously ill children must be offered where they live, i.e. almost possible in the home. The most important thing to do first is to prioritize children’s palliative teams in public health. So we also have a proposal that goes on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3094	Think that in three months we went from having historically low unemployment in Norway to seeing unemployment rates we haven't seen since the war. On company visits we were told earlier this year that the main obstacle to growth in Norway was the lack of skilled labour. Within a few weeks, the picture turned upside down. A total of 431,000 people registered as jobseekers at Nav after 12 March. The point of light is that there are now 215 000 fewer lay-offs, and that the activity and labour demand are addressing themselves. The government's powerful, targeted action has worked. We have had stress tested our welfare state, and it has proved robust, but not without faults and defects. That being said, it is not a fault or a lack that it takes time to change the operating systems of the Nav for the payment of daily and pay compensation. When the government reduced the employer’s period of leave in order to save Norwegian jobs and people from becoming unemployed, the Stortinget – with the right votes – expanded this with a compensation that has never been used before. For example, during the financial crisis, the red-green employer period decreased to five days, without changes to compensate employees. In red-green language suits – the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and SV – they reduced the employer’s period and sent the bill to ordinary workers. So there's a three-day difference between what they're criticising this government for today and what they did in 2008 or 2009. The size knew that the change would lead to delays. The working party received a clear answer to its question on 13 March in connection with Prop. 52 S for 2019 – 2020: The establishment of any new income protection scheme will not be possible in the short term, i.e. it may take several months to put in place new systems. Those who are waiting for money have every right to be frustrated and cursed, but the Storting has known this all the time, and a total greatness should be grown up enough to support the decisions we make. The parties cannot boast on the one hand of getting more money through to others without at the same time taking responsibility for the fact that it has led to problems for many. But since the government is committed to helping people, a temporary advance scheme was already completed on 30 March, before all other support schemes were in place. The government prioritises the employees, and 180 000 have been paid more than 3.8 billion in advance. kr pending the entry into force of the decision of the Storting. Prepayment arrangements apply for the year and average two to three days from application for payment. Nav is in the process of getting up to date, but again Red and the Workers' Party come up with proposals that will lead to further work that will delay the development of the hub and the payment to workers. The right goes against the proposals. We have an advance plan that works. Let Nav do his job. For the Right, the most important thing now is that people get the money they are demanding as soon as possible, so that we can not only wish each other happy glory, but also with a good conscience wish each other good summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3107	I'm concerned that the Progress Party and the government are proposing to cut resources for vaccines and the Cyber and Information Security Centers. SV suggests removing the cut. Today, I have tabled a proposal for an adult vaccination programme. People live tighter and tighter, and we travel far from farms to other countries – except under the corona pandemic. We don't have to cut vaccine resources. We need an adult vaccination programme to improve public health and minimise infection. SV wants everyone to get good health care throughout the country. We know that many families with sick children don't get the help they need. We have to listen to the lion mothers, who fight for their sick children. They say the offer is not good today. The Government and the Advance Party will spend money on a hospice one place, the furthest south of Norway. Many of these seriously ill children cannot travel far from farms. Why does a sick child and the whole family have to travel from Tromsø to Kristiansand to get help? SV suggests using this money to establish a children’s palliative team across the country to ensure that seriously ill children and their families get more time together at home. We want to move the money from one building so that all families with sick children can get better help across our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3116	When I've asked for the word completely at the bottom of one, long, comprehensive debate, it's to talk about an important industry: culture, and in this kind of special field of music. In the proposal on which we have four parties – the Government Party and the Advance Party – and which will have a majority today, we have the following decisions: ‘The government requests that subcontractors be included in the technology of the compensation scheme for cancelled cultural events, in order to be able to seek compensation for lost revenue in the event of cancellation or closure of events in the cultural sector. The Government lays down detailed terms and conditions for inclusion in the plan.» This is a seven-mile step in the right direction, and will last for the business that really feels the coronary action on the body, in a way that is far better than what has been the case at present. At the same time, we have to be humble enough to admit that even what we are doing today is not good enough given the entire food chain in the industry. On behalf of the four plural parties, I need to stress, as Mrs. Johnsen did earlier in the debate, that in close cooperation with the government, we will continue to work intensively and quickly, so that the final solution also takes into account the work of the artists.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3131	There has been a long debate, but it is also an important debate. For the Central Party, the discussion and what we have presented in our proposals on alternatives in the revised National Budget and Action Package 3 have been services close to people. The centre party goes in to strengthen the municipal economy so that municipalities do not have to cut down as a result of the virus outbreak. Let me stress that the most important tool we have to reduce unemployment and get people to work is that Norway should have profitable enterprises with sufficient jobs that workers need to do, and that the public sector should therefore be actively used to create this demand. Private business is crucial for value creation before, now and not least after the crisis. It must also be that the public has the means to initiate measures. The business compensation scheme is designed to make small enterprises disproportionately poor, and therefore many smaller enterprises do not receive any aid. It is particularly unfortunate in the districts, where both several of the smaller enterprises and not least companies with large seasonal variations in their incomes are involved, and the government’s package of measures is inadequate. When we see the payments that have occurred, and how much of the money that was set aside in the past has been used, the Central Party proposes to eliminate the excess both for March and April. In our proposal for changes to the revised national budget, we say that it should be granted over 9 billion. kr to the municipal sector in order to ensure the important service provision provided by Norwegian municipalities to the population. Municipalities will be able, as I was involved, to launch planned projects and not least to carry out projects in order to provide activity and employment for a period where this is particularly crucial. A good community economy and proximity between people and local people is a prerequisite for ensuring that everyone in Norway can live a good life and get the services they need. This spring we have had extraordinary challenges in our society, and the first line has been the one that has marked it the best. Then we talk about the health workers, teachers, kindergarten workers and cleaning workers who, together with a number of other public servants, have made an extraordinary effort to treat both the sick, provide care and care, develop new teaching arrangements and in other ways keep the wheels going. Together, they have shown that the municipalities are the crucial pillar of our welfare society both to everyday life and not least to a crisis. The centre party therefore believes that municipalities and county councils should be guaranteed full compensation for all additional expenditure and income losses associated with the corona epidemic. It will provide security for local politicians and thus provide security for future welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3144	SV and I would like the government to understand that it is now essential to stimulate green business rather than to carry oats to a horse that may not be completely dead, but that is old and lame and may not have so many years left. In the previous posts I talked about a green maritime industry, and it was perhaps the young, new, breeding horse we were going to carry a little more oats. I have a few more examples. Norway has very good prerequisites for becoming a nucleus of battery cell production. We have the world's leading process industry and competence and have well-developed, advanced technological environments that can make an absolute contribution to sustainable battery production 2.0. We've got most of it going on for the whole production chain. We also have a completely different production chain in Norway, the one for green hydrogen production in this country. Then it was difficult to see the government's hydrogen bet, which was presented a short time ago. It was quite foolish things, to say it like that, and it was also my colleague Haltbrecken on the inside. And isn't it now that we should bet on the railway, instead of this four-field highway mania that has ridden the government for years? The Nordics are flying as much as if we were a country with 50 million people, if we were an average country in Europe. It's not because we love to travel to airports, stand in a security queue and sit tight on the plane. No, it's simply because we don't have a real, environmentally friendly option to get quickly from Oslo to Bergen, Oslo to Stavanger or Oslo to Trondheim. The train has to advance faster, but unfortunately it does not expand. Right now, we should first, as in the short term, think about building up all clear small projects and maintaining everything that is possible by rail, while at the same time lifting our eyes and thinking about long-term and faster trains to Trondheim, Bergen and seafaring Stockholm and Gothenburg. Then we think of the environment, economic development and economic recession at the same time. What are we waiting for? Without going into concrete figures, I would like to sum up that SV will be investing more in the municipality. There are many alarming reports from Kommune-Norway about this, and other SV speakers have mentioned it. The second initiative is a green direction for Norwegian business, with much more money for such a bill – the project that SV calls green new deal. We've put off about 10 billion. kr to that field. It shall go to CCS, hydrogen research and funding through Enova, Nysnø, etc. and, in addition, for nature conservation and natural restoration. SV's policy is really a win-win for the red and the green, as it always has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3159	Let me start by saying that I agree with the last speaker that railway bets are important, and then like to go all the way to Tromsø – in the first round. But for the reason that I drew: I want to boast of the agreement we have made with the government parties. Now it's important for the first time to bring forward Nordic cultural history in a way that is different from what you've done in the past. It is a fact that what is the world's oldest liquid spare, which has its place of residence in Harstad, called «Anna Rogde», is a cultural-historical treasure, which should receive the same treatment as any other floating cultural-historical treasure we have in this country. Unfortunately, until the revised national budget this year, only floating cultural-historical taxes in South Norway have been prioritised. I am pleased that we are now also raising «Anna Rogde», and I hope and believe that there is something going on in the budget, so that there will be a permanent allocation from 2021. But then: I saw the need to draw myself to bring it up that at least from the point of view of the Progress Party is a clear point of view. The consensus we have reached with regard to the National Emergency Response Centre of the Police, which I was in the community, and now 32 million more people have been given to deliver the content – I repeat the content of the Centre – is about crews, it's about equipment, it's about enabling it to handle terror on Norwegian soil. This is not about the construction project, because it is fully financed and delivered on time and price. I just want to make it clear in this Chamber from this pulpit that our opinion is that this should go to the contents of the National Police Emergency Centre, because experience may be difficult to perceive in all parts of the justice system. If our partners are of a different opinion, I hope they will clarify it in the debate today. On the other hand, I believe that we have a common understanding, that it is about the content of the National Police Emergency Centre, so that it cannot be misunderstood at all, either by the Police Directorate, the Ministry of Justice or by the Oslo Police District, for that matter. That's the content we're talking about, and it's about enabling Norway to deal with terror on Norwegian soil. It's an important, amazing bet that's been made on Taraldrud, which is now being realized, and it opens December 15. Then everything should be in place, and I hope we get that 32 million. kr we get an impact for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3170	When I take the floor now, it is because it is not just in this debate that the time is running out. It is also running out of price support for students. It lasts only eleven more days, but the financial problems created by the coronary apathy for the students are going to persist. Throughout the crisis management process during the Korona outbreak, the Labour Party has stood for socially equitable solutions. The crisis aid to students would only have been a clean loan if the government had decided. Everyone knows that students have to work alongside the studies to do well. Without 12-month study support, it must be a political responsibility to find solutions for those who are particularly vulnerable when the labour market fails after Norway shuts down. Many students now experience that the summer job they had agreed to is no longer available. The students compete with many more about the jobs, and with high unemployment it is not the students who are in line. Someone's going to be okay with the family's help, but what about the others? In the Workers' Party, we do not accept that the pandemic should go most out on those who have the least in the past. We don't accept that students have to break off the studies because they can't feed on themselves. We view it as a rather sad discharge that the State Council for Higher Education in this difficult time is completely abdicated, and in full seriousness, the students are asking for social assistance. In this way, he himself contributes to the social distortion of the pandemic and increases disparities in Norway. The Norwegian student organisation has warned against this for a long time, and we in the Workers' Party believe that the Council of State urgently needs to find a socially fair and simple, unbureaucratic system in dialogue with the student organisations themselves. So finally, the Labour Party will use the crisis to create activity and facilitate forward-looking growth. We allocate funds to 4,000 new places of study as one measure. Another is to upgrade and adapt research and teaching areas of 100 million. kr. In order to ensure students a good welfare offer beyond the fall, we want to secure Student Relations, which is an actor who has fallen a little between two chairs here. We know that they made an invaluable effort when the campuses shut down, the revenues disappeared, and employees were on leave, while the students needed more follow-up than ever. Finally, many of the student communities' housing is out of date. We want to rehabilitate these old homes as a countercyclical measure, but in addition we want a permanent solution. In this way, the climate pressure can be kept down and students can also receive good and rehabilitated housing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3185	It is good that so many in the course of the debate are calling for green measures when we are about to leave the corona crisis. But we have a green package of measures – the government proposal – of 3.6 billion. kr, and it is based on a green conversion that we have had over many years, with the introduction of climate rate and support to municipalities. We've had 80 pst. increase in Enova every year, to 3.2 billion. kr – 1 billion. increase in last year and 2 billion. Now kr. We have established Nysnø and filled in every year. We're leading the world in zero-emission transport, whether it's almost 50 pst. electric car share, or that's the green shipping development we have. The collective share only increases and increases for each year. This is a policy that works. Last year we reduced emissions by 3.4 pst. We're now down to 50.3 million. tonnes of CO 2 equivalent in Norway. So now we have eye contact with the climate goal from the climate agreement in 2012. If we implement the same emission cuts in 2020 as we did in 2019, we reach the goal of reaching 48.6 million. tonnes. We're going to halve the emissions by 2030. That requires that we continue our efforts. Then we can't have parties like the Workers' Party that are already telling them to impose taxes on electric cars, until we know if we reach the targets of zero emissions in 2025. Then we can't have SV that doesn't have the courage to use biofuels and go forward to develop the advanced biofuels that we need to maintain the goal of bringing down the emissions. And we can't have the Center Party that will cut environmental taxes, and will not have the international cooperation we need to implement the necessary greenhouse gas emissions. It is precisely through international cooperation that we also get the economic development that we need in Norway. It is through cooperation that what we do in Norway – where we are at the forefront, where we have a large domestic market – provides an opportunity for our business to also export and use that technology internationally. Because it is a fact that perhaps the most important decision to be taken for Norway’s climate policy now in the coming year is when the EU decides on how much to strengthen its targets by 2030. Hopefully they will in September. We're going to end with fossil energy carriers by 2050. At the same time, we're going to have more of a nature, it's going to be 50 million. We are going to establish a global market economy within the sustainability of nature. And we're doing great.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3205	I think this has been a good debate. I think it has been informative about the revised budget, but also about the situation we are in. And it has been more recognizable than the debates on the major crisis packages. What's funny about the right is that they don't know exactly what foot they're going to stand on, what they're going to own, and what they're going to be against and what they're going to be for. So now we've come up with broad packages. The representative Nordby Lunde has written a lot of engagement in the media that the Workers' Party has only had one goal, and that's to add on all the packages. Well, there's packages that right now stand and say they're proud of -- they got good, they got socially fair, even though that wasn't the goal from the start. The party of progress is back where we know them, as the government's supporting party. Now it's drilling and drilling in the blessing of cutting the property tax. That's what's going to trigger activity, that's what's going to take us further. It's kind of depressing, but it's recognizable, and we recognize the policy before we go into the harvest. So it's also interesting to hear the representative from the Left, Ola Elvestuen, who's talking about the electric cars. It's also kind of recognizable. The climate policy that does not school for it to be fair is perceived by people to be a fair distribution of burdens. There is no point in having the community set up with great relief for the most expensive electric cars. It is not an attack on the prevalence of electric cars that we say that over a certain amount we are involved in paying the fees that can strengthen other parts of our efforts. For the opposition's part, we've taken responsibility for packages, it's been necessary. I want to say, on behalf of the Workers' Party, that we are back up when necessary, as we did when it was about saving the industry that brings us incomes, creating jobs, and that lay down for counting. Now that we've brought the oil and gas industry forward, we can also demand it to cut emissions, renew, bring new technology. Finally, I believe it is important to say that our municipalities, which are the first-line defense in so much in terms of health, safety and protection against vulnerability, must take good care of them. It is alarming that out of this revised budget they have a strong insecurity around their economy. Several of the municipalities are considering permitting them as we have called the heroes of this fight, and I don't think we should put them in that situation. Finally, I would like to thank the President for the way in which Stortinget has worked these months until now it is going to be summer. I believe that has been innovative and flexible. We've done our job, and it's not least the president's contributed to it. I wish all the representatives and members of the government a good summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3222	Then I take the freedom to say a thousand thanks to the representative Jonas Gahr Støre. Thanks in the same way, I really should have said.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3227	The pandemic is hitting businesses and workers hard, and we're using community money to get the security, profitability in companies, work to go to and income insurance on leave. But there is no political focus on private property. There is no focus on the social responsibility of private property owners. I want to give a daily example from the reality of how ownership is being practised today, and what a lack of governance the elected representatives have given it. The example is the ELKO company at Åmot in Modum. They produce electrical equipment, have 85 employees and a number of subcontractors who have employees from ASVO companies in three municipalities. It is owned by Schneider Electric — 150 000 employees in 100 countries. On 16 June, at the ELKO board meeting, it was decided to close the company, against the votes of the employees. All production ends during 2021. It is the only company that produces such electrical material. The national pension fund abroad is the second largest owner of the company, other than its own shares, and the holding has a market value of 13 billion. kr. Some people may think that the company is doing a bad job. Revenue in 2018 was 726 million. NOK and post-tax profits were on – hold on – SEK 187 million. kr. Schneider Electric has a strategy to buy up and shut down businesses. It's happened before in Norway, through the company Norwesco. Popular instruments have been weakened, at the latest by the abolition of the conversion law by the government parties, which was a further deterioration in the situation up to the end of 1994, when we had Chapter 3 of the Industrial Concession Act, which enabled the authorities to regulate the movement of real estate, i.e. industrial enterprises. It's gone now. The day after the company's closure, there was a absence at the company from the employees of 99 p.m. Production has stopped. This shows the seriousness, and I would like to say here from the Chair of the Storting that I understand very well the absence of employees. It's been a game, the whole thing. The closure of ELKO is a signalling matter. Now, community-building forces must wake up. We need to put in place a new law to ensure that elected representatives can control and ensure that such behaviour by multinational companies is not feasible in the Kingdom of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3242	I realize that we're really approaching the end here, and it wasn't meant to interfere with the summer greetings. But the representative Ebbesen from the Right, and to the extent that the representative Sivertsen, previously had some words about the Maritime Fund and the important revenue it represents for the coastal communities and our coastal communities, and tried to draw a picture that could not be disproved. There are so many other things I should also have gone into, but I will try to stick to this. The centre party therefore believes that income from the aquaculture industry should benefit coastal communities. I thought that was an agreed position on the part of Stortinget, but I note that the government parties and the support party for the Advance Party are of a different opinion. The government's proposal for the revision proposed changing the keys to the distribution of revenue from the sale of concessions between coastal communities, municipalities and the state. This would result in large decreases in revenue for these counties and municipalities. In fact, it should only be lacking that the government parties and the support party The Progress Party in their agreement then increases the transfer from the Maritime Fund by saying that a greater proportion should be attributed to the municipalities and the counties. It is in line with what was the intention of Stortinge when the conciliation was established. Although the budgetary agreement is a step in the right direction compared to the government's original proposal, I would like to stress that the distribution key to which the agreement provides is significantly worse for municipalities and counties than is the case with today's key. The intention was to ensure local communities throughout the country that more would be left for the area that was made available. So the new key means that the state takes a much larger share than you originally posted. In the government's proposal based on what was estimated for the sale of new concessions, the municipalities would reduce their transfers by 2.8 billion. kr. So the agreement is going to be a result of about 1.55 billion. kr i reduction. It is contrary to what was decided by the Storting, and it is contrary to the view that a unified municipality-Norway along the coast and not least the coastal states think is a fair distribution. The figures of how amazing this consensus is, especially from the point of view of the Progress Party, are in stark contrast to what is really the reality when we see the amount of money. Thus, these funds have been used to increase the nutrient funds in the municipalities – which are now in this crisis we are facing, have been used to shoot into important local measures to keep business going, and they have been used by the county municipalities, among others. building important economic pathways and ensuring that we have infrastructure in place to allow for increased value creation and to facilitate future entry into the market. The centre party insists that the key we have today should be maintained, and has also made suggestions on it. I would like more people to be able to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3259	I would like to comment on a few suggestions from the Centre Party. The government’s starvation of police districts has many negative consequences. Some of them we've talked about before. These include: that the response time is rising throughout the country; it is also that students from the Police College are standing without a job. As of today, more than half of those who graduated from the Police College in 2019 are out of work, and in a situation where police districts lack police staff. The central party believes that we need to give priority to getting more policemen out to work in the districts. We can't have it like we have a staff of almost 1,000 policemen who don't have a job, when the police districts are yelling at that capacity. The difficult economic situation in police districts has also led to the almost total stoppage of police cars. It's not because the police car park in Norway is great. On the contrary, it is in quite a bad condition. It has a high average age, and you're struggling very hard with rust and breakdown, which is expensive. Maintenance costs a lot, and it costs a lot when a patrol doesn't have a car because the car needs to be in the workshop. It is simply wasted with money that we should rather spend on investing in new and better police cars. This situation has become even worse during the coronary crisis, and as part of our arrangement, the Centre proposes to exempt the police from VAT on specially equipped vehicles. It'll release about 60 million. kr, which the police can use to upgrade the car park to a greater extent than now – together with the increased appropriations we have for free access to the police districts. This is important for us to have an operational and visible police who are able to be out there among people around the country. There is also no particularly good continuity in the replacement of the police car park now, and we therefore suggest that the government should consider what measures can be taken to better understand when cars need to be replaced, in order to improve the continuity of both the police and the supply chain, which is now struggling with a very unpredictable order flow. I am very pleased that the government in the agreement with the Progress Party is adding 5 million. kr to a border police station at Magnor. There is something the government has promised since the adoption of the near-police reform, which would come as part of it. But it does not guarantee that it will actually come. We have called for a concrete progress plan. We have not received that, and I believe that the government will have to deliver it as soon as possible, because if not, this is still a project that is completely blue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3275	I take the floor to give my clear and strong support for what Mr Lundtigen said. It's not common, as it says, for the Storting to handle individual things, and that's not a very unique example, what we're now facing in Buskerud, but I have to say that it's shaking me, what's happening. In a small company at Åmot, with now 85 employees, a few more a little bit earlier, who have contributed to a huge profit for decades after decades, the employees are just put on the street. It should remind the Storting about what is the reality of the balance of economic organisation, and it is about the fact that most workers have only their labour to offer. But it is not that the creation of value is created by capital, at least not alone – it is created by the combination of labour and capital. And I noticed, even after my last post, that the representatives of the right parties are not taking the debate in principle, but they are choosing to implement right-wing policies almost a bit silently. But the discussion about the principles of this and the impact on society does not take them. And it's a new development, which I'm almost sorry for, because we're not getting the debate we need here in this room, given the impact of right-wing policy. We're about to deal with it, and the majority of people here are going to give real estate tax reliefs that go to the kind of people who are now putting these people on the streets – completely unnecessary. And that's absolutely necessary to mark. I see that one of the councils now feels engaged, and it would be very nice if he came up here and said his, so maybe we could hear what the right side thinks about such a social development. It would benefit Stortinget that we got a debate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3284	When I first signed – and this is due to the invitation from the representative of Kolberg, so I regret to extend the debate when there is such a fine field out there – let me first take the opportunity to say a little about local economy, because there are several representatives who have addressed it. We have been clear from day one that we are going to set up for the municipalities and enable the municipalities to provide good services both during this crisis and afterwards. Looking at the sum of new estimates for price and salary growth and the increase in appropriations that growth and government has contributed to these months, it sums up to nearly 26 billion. kr. Representative Andersen called it minimal on Wednesday – I want to say that there is a significant contribution to maintaining the activity in Norwegian municipalities, and of course we are concerned about that, and we are going to create more and include more, because the municipalities are definitely a very important part of it. When I drew, it was also about the example of ELKO. The representative Kolberg combines the reliefs made in the tax on working capital with the fact that non-resident owners choose to close down a business in Norway. Foreign owners do not pay the tax on working capital set down here. When we reduce the tax on working capital, it is precisely about strengthening Norwegian private ownership and laying the foundation that we have strong communities with committed owners with local belongings who care about just the ringing effects of their community. Stories are all over the country, all along the coast, about local businesses that set up their community far beyond what can be expected, but we need to do so – with reference to representatives Kolberg and Lundtägen – we need to strengthen private Norwegian ownership and facilitate it. I suppose, with the involvement of representatives Kolberg and Lundtigen now, that they will support the proposal to reduce the tax on working capital, because that is what this is all about. This is the core of what it's about. I expect the representatives to actually follow up on voting for a proposal as good as the government has put forward. And let me say that this debate has been relatively strange to follow. In the last few months, we've used – how much, I don't know – up to 200 billion. kr, one of them to reduce the tax on working capital. Nevertheless, today's whole debate has focused on the one billion, and not on the 180, 190, 200 billion. NOK that we've spent on other things. It has been a little strange to witness. And I'm sorry now if I have contributed to extending the debate beyond what was necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3295	There's nothing to complain about. The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3302	I'm a little bit unsure of what I hear, but of course we're not going to vote for it, because we have no illusions that it works as the right-hand side says. In their own documents to the Stortinget they say that there is no evidence that relief in the property tax creates jobs, so of course I am not going on. It's the finance minister's documents and not mine, so I'm asking the government council to deal with it, I think. We're going to agree quickly that it doesn't work, and that's what we're saying. But if it's in the government's posts that he agrees that it's bad that foreign owners do this, then these posts were actually quite useful, because then we might be more agreeable than we think. They don't normally want to say it, so it was good that he did it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3307	I have no illusions of agreeing with prominent representatives of today's management of the Right. To that I have followed today's management of the Right over many years. I've learned how the former leader of Right Erling Norvik did not recognize himself in the party. I have no illusion that that party with today's leadership will change the political course in setting a framework for the content of private property rights. Taxation is important. The centre party is taxed on wealth – we do it in a way. We are taxed on a non-workable income in addition to a certain size. It is primarily the wealth that gives the income to be taxed without work. It's a very clear prerequisite for us to have a progressive income tax. If we're going to have a progressive income tax without a wealth tax, this is the popular basis for the progressive income tax. But what we're discussing here is ownership, private ownership, and the framework for it. What we're experiencing is that the Right Party systematically wants to take away the opportunities of elected representatives to lay down a framework for the exercise of private property rights, not least for industrial activities. They haven't gotten it away yet in terms of agricultural activity, and I've given it to the Christian People's Party for that before. Had they not come into the government, the concession law on agricultural properties had also been removed. They didn't do that, but in the industrial world, they have a success. One has also succeeded in removing the conversion law. The rapporteur at Modum is now profoundly concerned about this. It's not the only business that's in trouble now. What tools do we have as elected representatives to be able to do something? Schneider Electric says it's not something they need from Stortinget, it's not something they need from the municipality. They have made their decision, they have to centralize their production to Germany. There are not least wage costs 30 pst. lower. There it is appropriate for them to go. This is no matter what kind of formidable profits they have on their business in Norway. This shows a form of raw capitalism of which the Center Party is a clear opponent. I have no illusions – to refer to the representative Martin Kolberg – that today's Right-Leadership will turn this point around. There's only one thing that's useful, and that's getting a new number of big ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3318	Then the Council of State, Nikolai Astrup, has asked for the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3323	Also in this post I'm going to stay a little out of my constitutional responsibility, just so you're warned! Of course, it is regrettable that ELKO is shutting down, but I believe that if the representative Lundtigen calls for us to have a ban on foreigners making redeployments in companies they have bought or built up in Norway, it will have far-reaching consequences. We have a tax system in Norway where we want to facilitate the investment of foreigners in Norway. That's why we've reduced corporate tax, in order to be competitive with our neighboring countries. This will have a major impact on Norwegian enterprises abroad. I asked for the word for a short comment, but perhaps I could get the word for an article instead? Is that possible? With the blessing of the Storing? I look at the president, and she says nothing, so then I take it as a consent. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3332	A hesitant consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3337	To the representative Lundtägen: I remember sitting on a debate in Society in 2005 with Marit Arnstad, and then I was disgusted because we had not removed the property tax under the Bondevik II government. She made an excellent statement about the importance of Norwegian private ownership, and that we were not going to end up with Norwegian companies owned by non-residents or the state. That principle still stands, but the central part has changed course. Let me also say that Erling Norvik unfortunately died in 1998, so with regard to today's Right-Management, I doubt that Erling Norvik had strong opinions about it, because it was therefore not chosen at the time he unfortunately passed away. I will give myself there, as I have now exceeded my short remark with well and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3346	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3351	There should be no doubt that the Senterpartiet stands firm that we should have profitability in Norwegian private industrial activities within the framework of industrial production. The centre party has never proposed a ban on foreign ownership. What we're discussing is the framework within which ownership is to be exercised. The ownership that we now get in more and more companies is multinational, international companies that exercise a ownership that is completely foreign to what is the Norwegian tradition, and what the Norwegian people want. In Kongsberg, Buskerud's industrial bastion, there is only one company run by Norway, the others run by multinational companies. There's very little we can do. Property rights must be on the agenda, we must set a framework, and this must affect the international groups that behave in a completely unhealthy way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3359	That was fun! When I saw the Council of Astrup, I realized that there is a man with a proper commitment. And constitutional responsibility cannot stand in the way of what the heart really beats for – even if it is tax havens for the rich. [[Laughter]] What this is about, and much of the debate today has been about, is trust, in different ways. A society with small differences also creates greater trust between people. We all have that confidence new when we've had to pull in the same direction this spring. Therefore, the SV's message in this debate has been that we need to conduct an economic policy in the face of the crisis that takes care of what is best with Norway: small differences and strong communities. There is probably also one of the reasons why this one billion with unsocial tax cuts has received so much attention, because this is a matter for the Community, if at this very time no clear demands are to be made on those who have the most in Norwegian society. Unfortunately, it is too many examples that the government has met the economic crisis with very great confidence in – at one end – those with the most in Norwegian society, for example. when setting up support schemes for enterprises completely without requiring, for example: not to denounce people or not to take dividends, while one is unable to obtain a trust-based scheme for workers on leave. I think the government, for example. should have gone to the banks and set up the same scheme for outsourced workers who were waiting for compensation of pay, to which they were assigned to the enterprises. Of course, that would have been possible. People could get money and food on the table earlier. It is this trust that is at stake when you combine tax cuts for the rich with a notice of cuts in the harvest payroll rates. Our major task in the future is to prevent the economic crisis from leading to an explosion of social inequality, while at the same time pursuing an active industrial policy that allows the solution to the coronary crisis to be the solution to the climate crisis. The two things have been the most important thing for SV today – a crisis policy that is for the many, not for the few at the top. It seems that I have succeeded in not provoking myself any new speakers – it looks like this at least – so soon there will be sun. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3372	The debate will soon be over. Several have used the posts to wish good summer. It's well deserved after a long and intense session for most of us. But as Stortinget is about to take a summer vacation, and we have security for both home and income, quite a lot of summer is coming with great uncertainty and without the money they have the right to. Together with the RNB and the government's package of measures, we are also debating today the Red's proposal for advances to unemployed people who have not received the money they are actually entitled to. I have been told via via the news that the Nav management has got the proposal, and that they are holding even more pressure to get out money, and that is very good. I would also like to thank everyone who works in Nav for the efforts they have made in recent months, which have been quite extraordinary. It is also good that a total increase is behind the criticism that the government has been too slow: ‘It is not acceptable for many thousands to meet in the summer without having the income they require.’ The government said that compensation for those on leave would come in the first half of June. On 15 June, less than half of the people on leave had been paid money, and Nav did not get through the piles of daily money applications until the end of July. When the right-wing government presented their first crisis package, they would also deduct the full 10 days of full income. They warned against the compensation, and before one penny was paid, they also proposed to wind up the scheme. So all the way, the government has obviously wanted to cut off the unemployed, but fortunately, the Stortinget has improved the arrangements to this day. Unfortunately, all parties, with the exception of the Red Party and the Green Party, are in the position behind the right-wing government's warning that an urgent solution for the unemployed is not sustainable. But SV supports our proposal, and fortunately the Labour Party has turned around and is now in favour of an emergency and advance arrangement. Hans Andreas Limi said to TV2 on Monday that the Progress Party looked at Rødt's proposal with positive eyes and is open to find some solution. The centre party also agreed to urgent payments. The solution to this is simple: Let action follow words, so today the bulk of the population can make a decision that ensures that everyone gets through the summer without having zero dollars in the account. If the money is not paid in June, the overall government is asking to assess measures to ensure that people are quickly getting the money they are entitled to. That assessment should be simple. People have to get their money! Finally, a simple explanation of vote: Red will vote for any proposal that helps to resolve the crisis in a more fair and short-lived way, and will vote against the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3392	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 2-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3408	Today, a letter from the Minister of Oil and Energy came in to this matter, and the letter was published on the saddle and placed here in the hall. The President has understood that he is prepared to limit this debate and will then arrange the debate as follows: one 3 minute post to each party group and one 3 minute post to members of the government. No lines will be given.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3417	In Norway, we will need more clean energy in the years to come. In a few decades, we have to replace the half of our total fossil energy consumption with renewable sources. This will require a good interaction between hydropower, wind power, grid development and energy efficiency. Wind power will be an integral part of this whole. It is therefore important that we seek the greatest possible acceptance of those affected by the development. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the communication from the Councils of State, Bru and Rotevatn, today. It proposes several, in our view absolutely necessary, tightening of the concession regime, changes to the Workers' Party have long been in favour. We look forward to a good process of this message for the autumn. In several places today, there is a high level of conflict around concrete wind power projects. It is important that we have thorough and good concessional processes in such cases, and that trust in the administration's treatment remains high. We have a competent, tidy and professional position in Norway. From our point of view, we assume that the authorities are always striving to ensure that the concession procedures are properly applied and that all relevant knowledge is taken into account. Therefore, the proposal put forward by the Labour Party, the Party of Advances, the Centre Party and the three governmental parties should be understood as a desire to stress this principle, not as an expression of a lack of confidence that this is the case today. Indeed, in today's heated situation, it may be wise to make sure one more time that all decisions have been taken on the right basis. If, however, it should be found that there is indeed a situation in a concession that is contrary to the requirements of the law, the management must, of course, stop the decision. From the Labour Party we believe that this proposal is both better and more precise than the initial urgent proposal from SV. In this way, we avoid triggering unnecessary delays even in projects where there can be no legitimate doubt about shortcomings in the decision-making basis. At the same time, the majority ask the government to refrain from submitting new wind concession applications before the Storting has dealt with the message that came today. I think the opposite would have been a little wise, when a new concession, given after an old regime, but after it was made clear that the concession regime was to be tightened up, would have limited legitimacy, even if it had been legal. The majority also requests the Government to refrain from extending the period for the entry into service of new wind turbines in accordance with the applicable legislation beyond 31 December 2021. It is my hope that the decision we are now making, the day on which the government announces important tightening of the concession regime, will help to reduce the level of conflict in this important but highly controversial issue. With this I will address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3445	The representative Espen Barth Eide has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3450	The debate on wind power is a debate that engages many. The government has today presented a big message on concession treatment for wind power on land. In that communication, the Minister of Oil and Energy proposes a historic tightening of the concession system. The Communication contains a number of proposals for action, including: increased deadlines, early rejection, maximum level of turbines and greater influence on municipalities, county councils and communities. We do this because we see that there is a need to adjust the rate. There is now a high level of conflict, and many are frustrated. There are many who are concerned about wind power generation. Our task now is primarily to make a policy for the future, and the government has done so with the big message that was presented today. I am also pleased with the broad consensus we have reached in the Stortinget. We believe it is right to make an assessment of the concessions granted for wind power on land, to ensure that they are awarded under the applicable legislation. When we vote in favour of these proposals, when we're part of this consensus, it's because we hope it can help mitigate the conflicts we're now seeing. I trust that the government will follow up these decisions in a good way, and we will meet the government's assessments when they are ready. We heard that the representative Barth Eide took up these proposals. I think they're such good suggestions that I take them up, too!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3461	The President will then confirm that the representative Heggelund also wants to address these proposals, which have already been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3466	It is good that today we have set up a majority for the joint proposal that has been put on the table today. It comes after ongoing battles throughout the spring associated with several wind power projects with poor local political anchoring. Therefore, it is also good that the government today has presented a wind power message, which the Progress Party took the initiative when we were part of the government. I still think this is an important marker. In a representative proposal earlier this spring, the Progress Party also called for an urgent examination of a proposal to put an end to the project until the courts had tried the cases that had been filed there. Stortinget found no way to join. I am therefore grateful that SV has today put forward a proposal that will enable us to deal with this effectively. In my own home region, we've seen the demonstrations on Haram Island for a long time. It is a clear expression of a situation that local people do not tolerate, and that does not ensure the care of the municipalities involved in this type of project, and it undermines the diligence of economic operators over time. For this reason, I am pleased that today we are asking that we go through all given wind power concessions again and make sure that, if decisions have been taken in breach of both energy legislation and administrative legislation, the projects are to be stopped. There is an important indication from the Storting that you have heard the clear signals you have received in many places in the country. Finally, I would like to give an explanation of vote. I have seen that the Greens have also made proposals today, proposals in which we share our intentions in many ways. Nevertheless, I believe that with the clear wording that is today from the Government Party, the Workers' Party and the Progress Party, it is the mark. In order to be sure of that, I would ask the Council of State to comment briefly on whether the assessment relating to the concessions on Harams Island will be carried out, and given that, we will vote against that proposal by the Green Party and the majority. And then we see it as a trademark.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3477	Wind power engages and provokes. A lot of people feel overwhelmed. It is a concern that we as elected representatives must take seriously. In many places, it is pointed out that the assumptions for wind power projects change from concession to construction and implementation. Today we urgently deal with a proposal from SV that was promoted yesterday. That means that the proposal has not been evaluated in committee, it has not been thoroughly addressed in the party groups, and that may have consequences we do not see today. That's also why the Center Party was somewhat skeptical about the proposal, even though we support the intention to ensure that the concessions given are used in line with the concession terms that were set when they were given. At the same time, we are to ensure predictability for those who hold the concessions. It may be good to refresh your memory, or your memory, because your memory is short – in Trögstad we say it's about the distance between the speed dumps in Kirkevegen. Then there is reason to ask: is there anyone who remembers the debate about the mobile gas power plants ten years ago? The wind power debate today did not occur in a vacuum. It can be traced back to what was a very serious force situation in parts of the country. That we're not in the same position now, we're supposed to be happy, but the development of wind power on land was therefore an answer to real problems in obtaining some Norwegian citizens electricity. The current situation has changed. There is a greater commitment to national climate targets and the need for increased green power generation that justifies the need. The centre party is pleased that today, together with the government parties, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, we are able to respond to the demand for a review of concessions, so that dubious citizens around the country can feel that they are being taken seriously, while maintaining a distinction between law and politics, executive and legislative power, as I believe the majority of today's proposals do. The fact that the bulk of the population also determines that no new concessions should be treated until the Storting has adopted a new concession system is good, and the Centrette also has a positive input to the signals given today in the new default notice on concessions. In fact, we need a system of concessions that mitigates conflicts and provides predictability both for concession providers and – not least – for those who are going to live with windmills in their local environment. The centre party will continue to work to ensure that local participation and decision-making authorities are given a stronger position in the concession proceedings, and it will be central to our argument in the future debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3494	Half of our energy consumption is fossil. We need more renewable energy to solve the climate crisis, but we need to ensure that development does not damage valuable nature. Loss of nature is as serious a threat to the planet's future as the climate crisis. Recently, we have seen major conflicts around wind power development. We need to listen to the protests that have come in order to move forward together and fight both the loss of nature and the accelerating climate crisis. In the case of major natural developments, studies on the natural values of the area shall be carried out. Unfortunately, several times it has been found that this has not been done thoroughly enough by power builders. One example is the dispute over the expansion of the Baltic Sea watercourse in Hordaland. One of the main reasons for the final protection of the Baltic Sea watercourse was that the nature conservation organisations carried out their own biological studies which revealed more endangered species and important habitat types of high value than the researchers showed. We must take seriously the local environment's protests against wind power. Therefore, it is necessary for the government to go through the concessions in the wind energy sector that have been granted. Where a concession has been granted on a flawed or incorrect basis, the expansion must be halted, as in the case of the extension of the wind power plant on Andmyran in Northern Ireland, where the Minister of Oil and Energy stopped the expansion due to increased knowledge of the value of ants. Then we have registered that someone thinks it creates uncertainty when we propose a timeout to ensure us against irreversible interventions that may prove to be adopted on a false or flawed basis. But then I have to remind you of the Energy Act § 10-3. It allows for the drawing of concessions given on the basis of incorrect or incomplete information on matters of major importance. We are voting today in a subsidiary way for the majority proposals. The government must now start and check all concessions for wind power given, such as: Haram Island. These are important requirements that several organisations have required, including the Nature Conservation Association. I am pleased that there is now strong support in Stortinget, although our proposal could have done this even better and even stronger. I take it up with me the suggestions that SV has made in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3511	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3516	Making it better is always possible. We also have to do that with regard to the wind power concession regime. These include: the reason why the Government today, at the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for Climate and Environment, has presented a big message such as: contains the constraints now called for by the representative Haltbrecken – better nature mappings, among others. We've seen some red-listed species that have gone under the radar in the case of natural mappings, which we find in retrospect when they are passed. There are several reasons why we need to improve the concession regime. We see all the protests that are going on today. They don't just have to do with nature, they also have to do with frustration, about a kind of overrun. It's a democracy that's not fully operational. We have to help make that happen. That is why this message today also says that the counties must take greater responsibility for spatial planning and energy planning in their own region. We see that in some counties there has been great expansion. In other counties there has been virtually no expansion. We have to distribute the burden better. We also have to take a look back. Wind power development is a rather new phenomenon in Norway, and 93 concessions have been granted since the first in 1999. It is also a fact that 50 of these concessions, more than half, were granted under the Stoltenberg II Government in the period 2006–2013. Approximately 40 have been granted under the Right Party Government. Since the Left joined the government, there have been three concessions. What I want to say is that here we all have to take responsibility for just doing it better, and of course take a step back to see if there's anything we can fix. But we're also a state of law, and once the Storting has given laws, it's demanding to withdraw granted concessions. It takes a lot more to do that. For the Left, renewable energy is important, but it is primarily hydropower that makes Norway the renewable nation in Europe. We have to take advantage of all the sources we have. We're lucky to be in Norway – it's hydro, it's bioenergy, it's thermal energy, it's solar energy, and it's wind power. We have to balance this over the next few years. We've grown a lot of renewable energy now, and we're getting better at exploiting the energy we have. Point two of what we are presenting here today, that current concessions will not be postponed beyond December 31, 2021, is very important and will perhaps be the most important signal. If you haven't started building today, there's a very small chance that you'll actually realize that wind power plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3532	I would like to start by saying that it is very good that there is such a wide collection when both the government party, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party provide suggestions here. I would like to thank those who have contributed constructively, so that one can get these suggestions on the table. Since the Christian People's Party is inside the proposals, it may not be surprising that we support them, but I think it is worth stressing that all the proposals are about getting a good review to ensure that the concessions given are given in a good way, and that there is a clear limitation of the possibility of extending the deadline. These are proposals supported by the Christian People's Party. Like the previous speaker, I think it is worth stressing that this is about stressing the principle rather than expressing the lack of confidence that this has not been the case today. In addition to that, I think it's okay to give credit to the Council of State for having quickly delivered a letter of reply to the Stortinget, so that we have a substance and a way out of the proposals that are on the table today, when we're in spite of everything here and we're going to deal urgently with such a far-reaching proposal. That letter is largely about the framework that the Storting actually has, when we have made laws like the Energy Act and the Administrative Law, from which these concessions are governed. I think it's important that that envelope is clear in the proposals that the multiples are now in favour of. In addition, I will conclude by saying that I notice that the Council of State and the Government have been given a new big message about this, with many handles that are long-lasting and good. Better is always possible, and when it comes to ensuring better local anchoring, regional planning, clearer delimitation in concessional processes and greater emphasis on natural values and others, it is good, and there is a good basis for Storting’s further discussions on wind power. Then I also hope that the broad majority that is here today can find good solutions that will provide a better regulatory framework for the concession applications in the future. Better is always possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3543	First, thank you to SV for the proposal and to all parties to vote for urgent procedure, which meant that the last debate in the session is about climate and nature, which is quite right. I have, like many, received many e-mails about the Haramsøya expansion in the last few days. The Greens are shoulder to shoulder with the demonstrators locally and nationally, and today we demand that the government stop the project. The windmills on Haram Island can destroy bird habitats and push the red list of species against extinction. There's a reason there's a nature reserve right by where the windmills are to be set up. We are aware that the proposal can lead to claims for compensation, but it is a price we believe we must be willing to pay, when the authorities have failed to protect the interests of the local population and important natural values before the concessions are granted. For too many years, Norwegian politicians have taken too much light on natural disasters. That's why we've got a lot of leased things now that we've given concessions to wind power in areas of pristine nature, samonic reindeer and important open air areas. That's why we also now have great resistance, with good reason in some places, to an industry that's basically on the side of nature and the climate. Let's say: if the government parties can confirm that their proposal will mean that the Haramsøya project is stopped, I can consider drawing my proposal, because then I have achieved what I want. In addition to the Haram Island proposal, the Greens specifically propose to withdraw wind power concessions that destroy important natural values, concessions whereby the municipalities concerned go against the project, and concessions in conflict with the rights of indigenous peoples. If our proposal were to fall, we would vote in favour of the majority proposals. We also support the SV's proposal today. However, we cannot vote in favour of the Red's proposal to suspend all concessions given, simply because we are not opposed to wind power in itself. I am pleased that the government has presented a big message about wind power on land. An overall plan is needed for where and how wind power generation is to take place. The new concession system needs to pay far more attention to the non-interventional nature, local involvement and indigenous rights than the current one. It is possible to develop some wind power on land at the same time as taking care of these considerations, but then maximum production and profitability cannot be the guiding parameters. Wind power development on land in Norway should be reserved for areas with existing intervention and infrastructure. With this I also address the proposals I refer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3564	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3569	Red is the first party in Norway to go against all new wind turbines on land – not because we are climate negators, but because we know that we do not save the climate by destroying nature and because there are alternatives. First of all, we can modernise and rust up our hydropower. Secondly, we can improve the energy efficiency of our buildings. Norwegian construction uses about 80 TWh a year, so we can halve energy use in buildings in 30 years. And thirdly, we can't build more export cables for electricity. Many of the wind turbines that are now being built were granted a concession many years ago. It was mildly said that there was a lack of natural mapping in many of these cases. NVE has previously gone beyond the nature mapping for small-scale power plants and has shown that there were serious errors in 14 out of 20 mappings. The builders have everything they can to make use of maps that do the job quickly – and they'd like to do a little bad. They do not find any species to be taken into account. This has to be changed. There are now major protests against the wind turbines being built. People feel overwhelmed. They have not been heard in the process. Therefore, the Red’s proposal is that all concessionary wind turbines should be suspended until the Storting has addressed a new concession system for wind power on land. We proposed this in the Stortinget in October 2019. Unfortunately, it was only the Greens that supported our proposal. I hope other parties have learned a little bit more since then and support our proposal in the Chamber today. A new system must take into account both local government and nature. We have to put an end to the fact that the entire community is being overrun by wind power capital, supported by state power. We also need to ensure that development follows the Planning and Building Act, that concessions are given with a tight time limit for launching, and that nature monitoring is done by public institutions such as SNO or NINA, not by companies that have a slightly more random mapping of natural diversity. In addition, the needs of reindeer management must also be met by the builder and clarified in the concession process, and all concession treatment in Sami areas must be postponed until the Joint Committee has clarified the legal situation around land and water. We do not save the climate by building monster masters in Norwegian nature to send power and profit out of the country. On the contrary, we must preserve the nature that we have, in order to be better equipped to combat climate change. With that background, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3584	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3589	Today, the size has been given a big message with historical constraints and improvements in the concession treatment of wind power on land. Local and regional anchoring needs to be improved and more attention should be paid to nature, environment and neighbours. The time period for the process shall be intensified and far fewer changes shall be made to the deployments. I look forward to the processing of this message in Stortinget. As Minister of Oil and Energy, I have an important responsibility to implement decisions also taken by previous Councils, and to ensure that the administration follows up decisions, including given concessions for wind power. It's a very serious problem. Concessions for the construction and operation of wind turbines are based on the requirements of the Energy Act and the administrative framework for the treatment of wind turbines. The procedures of the energy authorities shall be governed by applicable rules of procedure and by relevant laws, inter alia. the Nature Diversity Act and the rules on impact assessments in the Planning and Building Act. Impact assessments and applications are notified and informed of. Consultations are held at several stages of the proceedings and the NVE's concession decisions may be appealed to the ministry. The concession gives the builder a right and predictability of the concession if all conditions and obligations are complied with. If it is to be intervened in such a right, this is required by law. There is a high threshold for the conversion or withdrawal of concessions. Assessments must also focus on the implications for the concessionaire and others who have acted after the decision. Administrative law does not allow for conversion only on the basis of the fact that, as in the present proposal, something can be given on a faulty or flawy basis. Moreover, the cessation of the implementation of a decision taken requires special authorisation. A general stop in projects without a thorough individual assessment by the administration on a case-by-case basis will increase the risk of the State remaining liable. Similarly, if the administration based on the proposal for a representative were to take illegal decisions on conversion, it would apply. It is then necessary to consider legal proceedings concerning State liability that will be highly resource-intensive, both before the courts and before the administration. So to the proposal that is expected to be adopted here today. I have no basis now to believe that there should be any faults or defects in given wind power concessions that would provide the legal basis necessary for a decision to be stopped. But as the proposal here says, we're going to consider the treatment of given concessions. We're going to do that, and since it's been specifically called here today, I can say that it will also apply to Haram.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3604	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox Case No. 6–21 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3788	No one has asked for the floor. With that, today's map is ready to debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3802	Councillor Tina Bru will transfer 4 kgl. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3813	Can I also take the opportunity to wish Stortinget a good summer and say thank you?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3818	That's what the Council of State can do. The Stortinget is then ready to vote on the remaining issues on yesterday's map, case no. 4 and 5, and Case No. 2–6 on today’s map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3832	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 3-7, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that, in the context of the agricultural settlement of 2021, a stepping-up plan is drawn up to strengthen preparedness, self-sufficiency and rural agriculture.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3861	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size of the agricultural holding is requested by the government in 2021 to increase the grant and investment aid to smaller vegetable producers.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size asks the agricultural government in 2021 to increase the target price of cereals without an increase in the price reduction for power feed, in order to stimulate more sustainable animal husbandry with less use of power feed, and more use of roughage and pasture.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size of the farm-holding government in 2021 asks to increase the grazing and grass premium in order to turn the feed from forage to Norwegian-produced grass.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased support from the Information Offices for cereals, fruit and vegetables to stimulate increased demand for Norwegian-produced vegetable food.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3895	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to go through the customs protection of potatoes, fruit and vegetables and to consider proposing to change from centimetres to percentages for fruit and vegetables grown in Norway and potatoes.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3912	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new issue to be brought back to the Storting in 2020 on the re-cultivation of bogs, which assumes that conditions for innovation taking into account climate, food production and biodiversity’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e3928	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e4208	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Tor André Johnsen, on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Bengt Fasteraune on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 7, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to accept only the county municipality as the guarantor of the Prop project. 38 S [[2019-2020]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e4240	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the Viken County Municipality and the Oslo Municipality to find agreed solutions to the transport challenges in the West Corridor.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Size Transmits Prop. 38 S back to the government, and ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a new proposition that takes up a new negotiated solution as Oslo and Viken stand behind." [[2019-2020]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e4264	There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to go through the project with a view to significant cost reductions and reduced tolls for the driving lists.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e4279	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–3, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size approves the extension of E18 on the Lysaker-Ramstadsletta route in line with the original Prop road solutions. 38 S [[2019-2020]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the project with the aim of reducing costs, without resulting in reduced road capacity or other disadvantages for the drivers’ lists.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess new technologies and alternative solutions that can reduce the cost of collective solutions, for example, between Fornebu and Lysaker.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e4307	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e4323	The Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e4335	The cancellation then goes over to vote over the matters on the current map. Case No. 1 was an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e4349	A total of 223 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-50, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 51 to 81, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 82–176, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 177-194, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 195–214, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of the Red proposal No 215, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red the proposals No 216 to 220, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 221, from Tore Storehaug on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian Party of Nations proposal No 222, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 223, from Sylvi Listhaug on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party Both from the pulpit and otherwise the parties have announced subsidiary support for some proposals. The President asks for understanding that with the high number of proposals it is difficult to take into account such an order, but the President hopes and believes that at least the parties' primary positions have been expressed in the debate today. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 195, 198, 204, 205 and 207 from Red. Proposal No. 195 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona Krona 20 Office of the Prime Minister 21 Special operational expenditure, the Coronation Commission, may be carried over by: [[New]] 15,000,000 21 Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5,300,000 from NOK 207 800000 to NOK 202 500000 41 Size Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 33 600 000 from NOK 973 300000 to NOK 939 700000 70 Grants to the batches shall be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 197000000 to NOK 199000000 61 Supreme Court Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 750 000 from NOK 116 138 000 to NOK 117 888 000 100 Ministry of Foreign Affairs 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 14 100000 from NOK 13 595 000 to NOK 27 695000 103 Representation of the Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 47 428,000 to NOK 49 428,000 116 International organisations 90 Deposits with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank [[AIIB]] 5,247,000 from NOK 190000000 to NOK 195 247 000 117 The EEA Financial Mechanisms 77 The EEA Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 may be transferred, reduced by: 695,000,000 from NOK 2526000000 to NOK 1 831000000 78 The Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 may be transferred, reduced by: 405,000,000 from NOK 1931000000 to NOK 1526000000 118 Foreign policy bets 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under items 70, 71, 72 and 73, increased by: 16,000,000 from NOK 77 942 000 to NOK 93 942 000 72 Disarmament, non-proliferation and nuclear safety, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under entry 21, reduced by: 16,000,000 from NOK 29 928,000 to NOK 13 928,000 140 Ministry of Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 1640 558 000 to NOK 1636 558 000 141 Directorate for Development Cooperation [[Northern]] Operating costs are increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 284 425000 to NOK 288 425000 144 Norwegian Exchange Cooperation Centre [[Norec]] Operating costs are reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 54 464 000 to NOK 51 964 000 70 Exchange arrangements may be transferred, reduced by: 57,000,000 from NOK 145 811000 to NOK 88 811000 150 Humanitarian aid 70 Emergency aid and humanitarian aid may be transferred, increased by: 38 205000 from NOK 4831 700000 to NOK 4869 905000 151 Peace, security and global cooperation 72 The stabilisation of countries in crisis and conflict may be transferred, increased by: 7000000 from NOK 835 390000 to NOK 842 390000 159 Regional appropriations 75 Africa, may be transferred, increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 1090 584 000 to NOK 1 120 584 000 160 Health 70 Health, may be transmitted, increased by: 541 073 000 from NOK 3610 686 000 to NOK 4 151 759 000 161 Education, research and professional cooperation 70 Education, may be transferred, reduced by: 165 000 from NOK 2570 150000 to NOK 2405 150000 71 Research, may be transferred, reduced by: 27,000,000 from NOK 208 846 000 to NOK 181,846 000 72 The knowledge bank and technical cooperation may be transferred, reduced by: 144,000,000 from NOK 888 714 000 to NOK 744 714 000 162 Enterprise development, agriculture and renewable energy 70 Enterprise development and trade may be carried over, reduced by: 45,000,000 from NOK 461,200000 to NOK 416,200000 72 Renewable energy, can be transmitted, reduced by: 165 000 from NOK 867000000 to NOK 702000000 73 the International Financial Institution; [[IFC]] 30,000,000 from NOK 160000000 to NOK 130000000 163 Climate, Environment and the Sea 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 0 71 Sustainable seas and measures against marine litter may be transmitted, reduced by: 135,000,000 from NOK 517 967 000 to NOK 382 967 000 164 Equivalence 70 Equality may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 324 019 000 to NOK 334 019 000 172 Multilateral financial institutions and liabilities 70 The World Bank may be transferred, increased by: 102,000,000 from NOK 1 086 000 to NOK 1 188 000 72 Strategic cooperation, may be transferred, increased by: 108,000,000 from NOK 139000000 to NOK 247000000 73 Debt, may be transferred, reduced by: 46,015,000 from NOK 326 500000 to NOK 280 485000 179 Refugee measures in Norway 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 143 223,000 from NOK 718 575 000 to NOK 575 352 000 200 Ministry of Knowledge Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2864 000 from NOK 389 977 000 to NOK 392 841 000 201 Analysis and knowledge base 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 9,200,000 from NOK 216 285000 to NOK 225 485000 220 Directorate of Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 7,214,000 from NOK 364 427 000 to NOK 357 213 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. State schools and distance learning services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 9 300000 from NOK 136 065 000 to NOK 145 365 000 225 Basic training measures Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 23 611000 to NOK 13 611000 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 90 000 000 from NOK 109 614 000 to NOK 19 614 000 64 Aid for the training of children and young people seeking residence in Norway is reduced by: 9 768 000 from NOK 62 111 000 to NOK 52 343 000 65 School and swimming facilities interest compensation may be transferred, reduced by: 82 852,000 from NOK 248 556 000 to NOK 165 704 000 68 Subsidies for training in criminal services are increased by: 1,055000 from NOK 292 537 000 to NOK 293 592 000 69 Measures for the completion of secondary education are granted by: [[New]] 717,000,000 75 Basic grants shall be increased by: 3,750,000 from NOK 88 587 000 to NOK 92 337 000 226 Quality development of initial training 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 305 200000 from NOK 1 296 726 000 to NOK 1 601 926 000 63 Research on the effects of increasing teacher density is reduced by: 7685 000 from NOK 50 687 000 to NOK 43 002 000 228 Grants to independent schools, etc. 70 Primary independent schools, estimates, are reduced by: 888 000 from NOK 2875 033 000 to NOK 2874 145 000 71 Secondary free-standing schools, estimates, are increased by: 138 000 from NOK 1678 612000 to NOK 1678 750000 83 Compensation for reimbursed parental payments ifb. school and SFO closures are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 15000000 231 Kindergartens 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 51, reduced by: 11 381,000 from NOK 464 683 000 to NOK 453 302 000 240 Vocational schools 60 Operating grants to specialised schools are increased by: 34 194 000 from NOK 782 138 000 to NOK 816 332 000 251 22 July Centre Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5,800,000 from NOK 11 723 000 to NOK 17 523 000 253 Higher Education Colleges 70 Grants to higher education institutions shall be increased by: 60 800000 from NOK 951 516 000 to NOK 1012 316 000 256 Competence Norway Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 6 100000 from NOK 104 369 000 to NOK 110 469 000 258 Measures for lifelong learning 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 157 500000 from NOK 383 376 000 to NOK 540 876 000 260 Universities and higher education institutions 50 State universities and higher education institutions are increased by: 317 781 000 from NOK 36 899 475000 to NOK 37 217 256 000 270 Student Welfare 75 Grants for the construction of student housing may be transferred, reduced by: 21 034 000 from NOK 822 442 000 to NOK 801 408 000 272 Directorate for Internationalisation and Quality Development of Higher Education 50 The Directorate for Internationalisation and Quality Development in Higher Education shall be increased by: 35,995,000 from NOK 601000000 to NOK 636 995000 273 Unit — Directorate for ICT and Joint Services in Higher Education and Research 50 Unit - Directorate for ICT and Joint Services in Higher Education and Research will be increased by: 10,023,000 from NOK 184 495 000 to NOK 194 518 000 275 Higher education and research measures 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 1,248 000 from NOK 176 603 000 to NOK 175 355000 285 Norwegian Research Council 53 Cross-sectoral and strategic efforts are increased by: 99000000 from NOK 1 408 881000 to NOK 1 507 881000 55 Business costs are reduced by: 3 512,000 from NOK 783,617 000 to NOK 780,105 000 286 Regional Research Fund 60 Regional research funds, research grants, are increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 189 119 000 to NOK 219 119 000 288 International cooperation actions 72 International basic research organisations are increased by: 20 381,000 from NOK 288 845000 to NOK 309 226 000 73 The EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation may be transferred, increased by: 287 673 000 from NOK 2390 128 000 to NOK 2677 801000 74 The EU programme for education, training, youth and sport shall be increased by: 86 343,000 from NOK 646 902,000 to NOK 733 245000 75 UNESCO quota shall be reduced by: 2,693,000 from NOK 24 944 000 to NOK 22 251000 290 Directorate for Integration and Diversity Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,429 000 from NOK 292 960000 to NOK 295 389 000 291 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 400000 from NOK 65 512000 to NOK 65 112000 60 Integration grants, may be transferred, increased by: 179 090000 from NOK 7 545 633 000 to NOK 7 724 723 000 61 Specific grants for the settlement of single minor refugees, the allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 22,847,000 from NOK 1714 150000 to NOK 1691 303000 62 Local migration measures are increased by: 22 571 000 from NOK 225,011000 to NOK 247,582000 71 Grants to migrant organisations and other voluntary activities are increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 125 443 000 to NOK 145 443 000 73 Grants shall be increased by: 400000 from NOK 21 414 000 to NOK 21 814 000 292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Samples in Norwegian and community knowledge for adult immigrants are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 31 420000 to NOK 41 420000 60 Grants for training in Norwegian and social skills for adult immigrants are increased by: 99,423,000 from NOK 1,234 850000 to NOK 1 334 273 000 315 Voluntary objectives 79 At the disposal, increase by: 5000000 from NOK 9 810000 to NOK 14 810000 82 VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities is increased by: 106 500000 from NOK 194 500000 to NOK 301 000 320 Norwegian Cultural Council Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 810,000 from NOK 187 800000 to NOK 189 610000 55 Norwegian Cultural Fund, reduced by 500000 from NOK 1008 060 000 to NOK 1 007 560000 321 Artist's Purposes 73 Artists' scholarships, etc. , may be transferred, increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 208 680000 to NOK 253 680000 75 Remuneration schemes may be transferred, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 220 120 000 to NOK 320 120 000 323 Music and performing arts 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 65 190 000 to NOK 45 190 000 60 The Landsparte Musikerordnung in Nord-Norway, is increased by 180 000 from NOK 22 200000 to NOK 22 380000 70 National institutions are increased by: 51 680,000 from NOK 1548 890000 to NOK 1600 570000 71 Regional/participating institutions are increased by: 22 330,000 from NOK 819 230000 to NOK 841 560000 73 Regional and district operations shall be increased by: 2,140 000 from NOK 64 870000 to NOK 67 010 000 78 Various fixed measures are increased by: 8,085,000 from NOK 329 569 000 to NOK 337 654 000 325 General cultural purposes 72 Cultural cooperation in the north is increased by: 155 000 from NOK 11 860000 to NOK 12 015 000 77 Compensation schemes for cultural, voluntary and sporting organisers are increased by: 2,120,000,000 from NOK 1000000 to NOK 3120000000 79 At the disposal, under item 1, may be increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 11 600 000 to NOK 26 600 000 82 Nobel Peace Center, increased by 5000000 from NOK 32 890000 to NOK 37 890000 326 Language, literature and library purposes 80 Grants to actions under the National Library shall be increased by: 65000 from NOK 49 055000 to NOK 49 120 000 328 Museum and visual art 70 The national museum network shall be increased by: 114 560,000 from NOK 2 080 525000 to NOK 2 195 085 000 78 Various fixed measures are increased by: 50 860,000 from NOK 128 520000 to NOK 179 380000 334 Film uses, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 220000 from NOK 115 150000 to NOK 117 400000 50 The Film Fund shall be increased by: 27 750 000 from NOK 527 160 000 to NOK 554 910000 72 Incentive regimes for film and television productions may be transmitted, reduced by: 31 990,000 from NOK 71 360 000 to NOK 39 370000 335 Media purpose Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 780,000 from NOK 53 220 000 to NOK 54000000 71 Media support, increased by 320 300 000 from NOK 415 230000 to NOK 735 530000 74 Grants to local audio and video media may be transferred, increased by: 110 000 from NOK 20 400000 to NOK 20 510000 79 Norwegian National Broadcasting AS – NRK, reduced by 200 417,000 from NOK 6 413 342 000 to NOK 6 212 925000 353 Equality and discrimination ombudsman 50 Basic appropriations shall be reduced by: 161 000 from NOK 48 020000 to NOK 47 859000 400 Ministry of Justice and Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 370,000 from NOK 477 434 000 to NOK 477 064 000 23 Special operational expenditure, research, evaluation and knowledge acquisition can be transferred, reduced by: 560,000 from NOK 34 593 000 to NOK 34 033 000 71 Grants to international organisations are increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 14 889 000 to NOK 15 989 000 410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 108 450,000 from NOK 2618 217,000 to NOK 2726 667 000 414 Conciliation Board and other judicial costs 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 300000 from NOK 36 998 000 to NOK 37 298 000 430 Crime prevention services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7 850,000 from NOK 4 788 033 000 to NOK 4 795 883 000 440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 86 600 000 from NOK 18 874 616 000 to NOK 18 961 216 000 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 830000 from NOK 137 495 000 to NOK 129 195 000 23 Side costs related to civil service tasks shall be increased by: 9 800000 from NOK 26 819 000 to NOK 36 619 000 25 Return of asylum-seekers with refusals and other non-residents without a legal stay, estimates, is reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 95 528 000 to NOK 75 528 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 219,000,000 from NOK 950 030 000 to NOK 1169 030 000 70 Grants shall be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 65 946 000 to NOK 70 946 000 442 Police College Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7000000 from NOK 633 984 000 to NOK 640 984 000 445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 12 300000 from NOK 277,795000 to NOK 290,095000 451 Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 24000000 from NOK 908 219 000 to NOK 932 219 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 1 700 000 from NOK 7 606 000 to NOK 9 306 000 70 Transfers to private individuals are reduced by: 200000 from NOK 6 878 000 to NOK 6 678 000 452 Central crisis management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,200,000 from NOK 26 849 000 to NOK 30 049 000 454 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 65 662,000 from NOK 700,023 000 to NOK 765,685000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 21 039 000 from NOK 2315 361000 to NOK 2336 400000 455 Rescue services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5,070,000 from NOK 111,310000 to NOK 116,380000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 5,240,000 from NOK 6074 000 to NOK 834 000 457 National safety authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 375 306 000 to NOK 355 306 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, granted by: [[New]] 20,000,000 460 Special Unit for Police Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 6000000 from NOK 48 316 000 to NOK 54 316 000 467 Norwegian Lovtidend Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,075,000 from NOK 4 404 000 to NOK 6 479 000 468 Commission for the resumption of criminal proceedings Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,800,000 from NOK 20 230000 to NOK 22 030 000 469 Vertegration scheme 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 23 546 000 from NOK 138 546 000 to NOK 115 000 000 473 Civil law administration of the State Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,850,000 from NOK 77 021 000 to NOK 79 871000 474 Conflict Board Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 139 495 000 to NOK 143 495 000 480 Svalbard budget 50 Grants shall be increased by: 32 870,000 from NOK 393 308 000 to NOK 426 178 000 490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 801,878,000 from NOK 1012 202 000 to NOK 1 814 080 000 21 Special operating costs, asylum receipts, are reduced by: 29 088 000 from NOK 643 848 000 to NOK 614 760000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 66 972 000 to NOK 74 972 000 60 Grants to host municipalities for asylum recipients shall be reduced by: 1,740,000 from NOK 163 510000 to NOK 161 770000 70 Social benefits for residents in reception of asylum are reduced by: 22 368 000 from NOK 85 374 000 to NOK 63 006000 72 International migration work, and assisted return and reintegration in the home country, estimates are reduced by: 900000 from NOK 73 078 000 to NOK 72 178 000 73 Protection for refugees outside Norway, etc., support measures, may be used under Chapter. 291, entry 60, is reduced by 4227 000 from NOK 21 920000 to NOK 17 693,000 75 Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad may be carried over, increased by: 1 565 000 from NOK 28 233 000 to NOK 29 798 000 491 Foreigner’s Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 21, reduced by: 22,980,000 from NOK 285 316 000 to NOK 262 336 000 21 Special operating costs, including treatment, may be used under item 1 increased by: 200000 from NOK 12 625000 to NOK 12 825000 500 Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation 25 New government quarter, may be transferred, increased by 5000000 from NOK 4039 000 to NOK 9 039 000 510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 10,300,000 from NOK 640 329 000 to NOK 650 629 000 525 The County Departments Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 318 000 from NOK 1 896 952 000 to NOK 1900 132 000 530 Construction projects outside the housing arrangement 33 The continuation of construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 690,000 from NOK 1471 200000 to NOK 2 161 200000 531 Royal property 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 63 605000 to NOK 73 605000 533 Non-residential property 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 142 300000 from NOK 35000000 to NOK 177 300000 540 Directorate for Digitalisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 26 071,000 from NOK 2333 339 000 to NOK 207 268 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 8,000,000 from NOK 44 108 000 to NOK 36 108 000 23 The development and management of national common components may be transferred, increased by: 11 800000 from NOK 111 585 000 to NOK 123 385 000 28 ALTIN, may be transmitted, increased by: 25 800000 from NOK 221 548 000 to NOK 247 348 000 543 National communication authority 70 Telecommunication security and preparedness may be transmitted, increased by: 90 000 000 from NOK 141 369 000 to NOK 231 369 000 553 Regional and district development 61 Mobilising and qualifying industrial development is increased by: 600000000 from NOK 763 307 000 to NOK 1 363 307 000 560 Sámi 50 Sami languages, culture and social life are increased by: 6 107 000 from NOK 512 861000 to NOK 518 968000 567 National minorities 70 National minorities are increased by: 500000 from NOK 7 257 000 to NOK 7 757 000 571 Framework grants to municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 18 002 828 000 from NOK 141,800,768,000 to NOK 159,803,596,000 64 Discretionary participation, can be used under a hood. 572, entry 64, is increased by 350000 000 from NOK 1484000000 to NOK 4 984000000 572 Framework grant to county municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 5,200,000 from NOK 38 260 708 000 to NOK 43 460 708 000 64 Discretionary participation, can be used under a hood. 571, entry 64, is increased by: 1 500,000,000 from NOK 382000000 to NOK 1 882000000 576 Maintenance and rehabilitation 60 Maintenance and rehabilitation in municipalities, granted by [[New]] 7,000,000 581 Dwelling and housing measures 70 Housing aid, estimates, is increased by: 43,000,000 from NOK 3 342 343 000 to NOK 3 385 343 000 76 Rentals, may be transferred, reduced by: 84 065 000 from NOK 445 067 000 to NOK 361 002 000 587 Directorate for Building Quality This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Knowledge development and information dissemination are increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 51 085 000 to NOK 71 085 000 595 Staten Kartsverk 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under headings 01 and 45, increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 293 827 000 to NOK 318 827 000 600 Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 66 750 000 from NOK 219 270000 to NOK 286 020000 601 Exploration, research, etc. 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 8,650,000 from NOK 43 130 000 to NOK 34 480 000 605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,054,000,000 from NOK 12 404 655000 to NOK 13 458 655000 606 Social security rights Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 190 000 from NOK 87 545000 to NOK 89 445000 612 Grants to State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 112 000 000 from NOK 5458000000 to NOK 5 346000000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Final settlement, allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 24000000 from NOK -13000000 to NOK -37000000 614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 31000 to NOK 32000000 615 Insurance against professional injury Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 28,000,000 from NOK 93000000 to NOK 65000000 616 Group life insurance services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 14,000,000 from NOK 214000000 to NOK 200000000 634 Labour market measures Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 158,000,000 from NOK 259 745000 to NOK 417 745000 70 Temporary compensation scheme for pre-authorised organisers, granted by: [[New]] 180 000 000 76 Measures for job seekers may be transferred, reduced by: 77 000 000 from NOK 7079 465000 to NOK 7002 465000 77 Permanently organised work may be transferred, increased by: 28,000,000 from NOK 1603 812000 to NOK 1631 812000 640 Labour Inspectorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 63 500000 from NOK 689 900000 to NOK 753 400000 21 Special operational expenditure, regional protection agencies, is increased by: 2000000 from NOK 16 100000 to NOK 18 100000 642 Petroleum control Add User-ID Succeeded Operating expenditure, may be used under item 21, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 294 400000 to NOK 295 400000 643 National Institute for Safety and Health at Work 50 State grants shall be reduced by: 488,000 from NOK 152 200000 to NOK 151 712000 660 War Pension 71 Grants, civil, estimates, are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 144000000 to NOK 140000000 664 Seafarer pension scheme 70 Grants shall be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 29000000 to NOK 34000000 665 Fishermen's pension scheme 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 8,000,000 from NOK 43000000 to NOK 35000000 666 Retirement contract [[AFP]] Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 2760000000 to NOK 2750000000 667 Supplementary social benefits for persons over 67 years of age 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 8,000,000 from NOK 3280000000 to NOK 320000000 700 Ministry of Health and Welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 240 179 000 to NOK 250 179 000 701 E-health, health records, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 566 537 000 to NOK 571 537 000 70 Norwegian Healthnet SF, increased by 23 500000 from NOK 152 297 000 to NOK 175 797 000 72 National eHealth solutions are increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 490 900 000 to NOK 510 900 000 703 International cooperation 72 Grants to the World Health Organisation [[New]] [[WHO]] 100000 000 710 Vaccines, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 303,925000 to NOK 300,925000 732 Regional health establishments 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 5,145,000 from NOK 19 401,000 to NOK 24 546 000 70 Specific grants, may be carried over, may be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 75, increased by: 5,374,300 000 from NOK 990 110000 to NOK 6 364 410000 72 Basic appropriations Health south-east RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 2,688,487 000 from NOK 56 113 159 000 to NOK 58 801 646 000 73 Basic appropriations Health West RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 606 347 000 from NOK 19 588 777 000 to NOK 20 195 124 000 74 Basic appropriations Health Middle Norway RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 374 417 000 from NOK 14 916 217 000 to NOK 15 290 634 000 75 Basic appropriations Health Nord RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 448 749 000 from NOK 13 261 484 000 to NOK 13 710 233 000 76 Intervention-driven financing, estimates, is increased by: 300000 from NOK 39,960,745000 to NOK 39,961,045000 77 Laboratory and radiological studies, estimates, are increased by: 84 113 000 from NOK 3 145 547 000 to NOK 3 229 660 000 86 Operating credits shall be increased by: 1,959,000,000 from NOK 4459000000 to NOK 6418000000 733 Habilitation and rehabilitation services 72 Purchases of training, etc. , may be transferred, increased by: 24 855000 from NOK 1245000 to NOK 26 100000 740 Directorate for Health Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 170 200000 from NOK 1,222 348 000 to NOK 1392 548 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 19 800000 from NOK 35 441000 to NOK 55 241000 745 Public health institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 81 400000 from NOK 1065 075 000 to NOK 1 146 475000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 145 287 000 to NOK 144 287 000 746 National Agency for Medicinal Products Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 308 275 000 to NOK 323 275 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 1,000,000 from NOK 30 805000 to NOK 1.030 805000 761 Nursing services 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 79, increased by: 95 500000 from NOK 192 152000 to NOK 287 652 000 63 Investment grants – rehabilitation, can be transferred, can be used under heading 69, reduced by: 42 300000 from NOK 4035 632,000 to NOK 3 993 332,000 64 Compensation for interest and deductions shall be reduced by: 46,000,000 from NOK 866000000 to NOK 82000000 65 Trials of state funding of care services, estimates, are reduced by: 16 300000 from NOK 1518 382,000 to NOK 1502 082 000 67 Development measures are reduced by: 1 700 000 from NOK 66 602,000 to NOK 64 902 000 68 Competence and innovation are increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 404 857,000 to NOK 424 857 000 69 Investment grants – net growth, may be transferred, reduced by: 68,000,000 from NOK 403 300000 to NOK 335 300000 79 Other grants, may be used under item 21, increased by: 120000 from NOK 121,632 000 to NOK 122,832 000 762 Primary Health Service 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 137 518 000 from NOK 121 061 000 to NOK 258 579 000 61 Prison health services are increased by: 410000 from NOK 181,184 000 to NOK 181,594 000 63 General medical services are reduced by: 78 500000 from NOK 322 781000 to NOK 244 281000 64 Escalation plan habilitation and rehabilitation is reduced by: 4,018,000 from NOK 4018000 to NOK 0 765 Psychiatric health, intoxication and violence 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, increased by: 67 133 000 from NOK 129 598 000 to NOK 1996 731000 60 Municipal services may be transferred, reduced by: 2,600,000 from NOK 238 690000 to NOK 236 090 000 62 Noise, may be transmitted, reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 492 460000 to NOK 452 460000 72 Voluntary work, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 40,000,000 from NOK 415 935000 to NOK 455 935000 780 Research 50 Norwegian Research Council, etc. , increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 252 167 000 to NOK 297 167 000 781 Testing and development, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 79, increased by: 520000 from NOK 52 978 000 to NOK 58 228 000 840 Action against violence and abuse 21 Special operating expenses may be used under heading 70 and cap. 846, entry 62 is increased by 10000000 from NOK 23 683 000 to NOK 33 683 000 61 Grants to incest and rape centres, estimates, are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 101 762000 to NOK 106 762000 70 Grants for violence prevention, etc. , may be used under heading 21 and Chapter. 858, entry 1 shall be increased by: 1,800,000 from NOK 104 954000 to NOK 106 754000 842 Family protection 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 600 000 from NOK 31 902000 to NOK 31 302 000 843 Adoption aid 70 Grants to parents who adopt children from abroad, estimates are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 11000000 to NOK 9000000 844 Cash support 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 1560000000 to NOK 1550000000 845 Child-rescue 70 Grants, estimates, are increased by: 18,000,000 from NOK 16 459 000 to NOK 16 477 000 846 Family and growth measures 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 61 and item 71, reduced by: 350000 from NOK 36 792,000 to NOK 36 442 000 61 National scheme to include children and young people may be used under heading 71, increased by: 103,000,000 from NOK 358 969 000 to NOK 461 969 000 62 Developments in municipalities are increased by: 250000 from NOK 111 842,000 to NOK 112 092000 70 Children’s organisations and youth organisations shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 163 088 000 to NOK 173 088 000 71 Development and information services n.e.c. , may be used under heading 21, increased by: 7000000 from NOK 21 393 000 to NOK 28 393 000 854 Measures in the field of child protection 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 71, reduced by: 770000 from NOK 76,772 000 to NOK 69,072 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 8 100,000 from NOK 20 116 000 to NOK 12 016 000 61 Developments in municipalities are increased by: 12 640,000 from NOK 53 871000 to NOK 66 511000 72 Grants for research and development of competences in the field of child protection may be transferred, used under item 21, increased by: 5,760,000 from NOK 121,518 000 to NOK 127,278 000 858 Children’s, Youth and Family Directorates and Joint Functions in the Children’s, Youth and Family Budget Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,200,000 from NOK 590 813,000 to NOK 593 013 000 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 1 100000 from NOK 19 723,000 to NOK 18 623 000 860 Consumer Council 50 Basic appropriations shall be reduced by: 647 000 from NOK 133 545000 to NOK 132 898 000 865 Consumer policy measures 70 Grants, may be used under item 21, increased by: 100000 from NOK 1492 000 to NOK 1592 000 867 Secretariat of the Market Council and Consumer Complaints Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 14 361000 to NOK 15 361000 868 Consumer supervision Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7 100000 from NOK 34 078 000 to NOK 41 178 000 880 The Norwegian Church 71 Grants to the Church of Seafarers – Norwegian Church abroad, increased by: 16,000,000 from NOK 104,622 000 to NOK 120,622 000 882 Cemeteries and cemeteries 61 Grants to peaceful and protective church buildings may be transferred, increased by: 51 100000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 71 100000 900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 842,000 from NOK 436 511000 to NOK 437 353 000 71 Environmental action Raufoss is increased by: 220000 from NOK 2050000 to NOK 430000 72 Grants to contingency arrangements shall be increased by: 407,000 from NOK 390000 to NOK 4307000 78 Package of measures to be taken by the supplier industry, etc. [[New]] , by: 7,000,000 79 Compensation scheme for expenditure on statutory maintenance in seasonal holdings is granted by: [[New]] 250,000,000 904 The Brønn Island Registers Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 348 300000 to NOK 358 300000 906 Directorate for Mineral Management with the Bergmeister for Svalbard 30 Protective and environmental measures may be transferred, increased by: 1500000 from NOK 7000000 to NOK 8 500 000 907 Norwegian Nuclear Decommissioning 30 Cleaning up Sleep, reduced by 19 600 000 from NOK 21 600 000 to NOK 2000000 909 Measures for employment of seafarers 73 Allowances for employment of seafarers, estimates, are increased by: 14 700 000 from NOK 2 173 300000 to NOK 2 188 000 910 Directorate for Maritime Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4,700,000 from NOK 428 350000 to NOK 433 050000 917 Directorate for Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 417 500000 to NOK 419 500000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 21 919 000 from NOK 90000000 to NOK 111 919000 919 Miscellaneous fishing purposes 60 Grants to municipalities and counties, granted by [[New]] 2,271,406,000 75 Subsidies for nutritional measures in fisheries may be transferred, increased by: 38,000,000 from NOK 22000000 to NOK 60000000 920 Norwegian Research Council 50 Grants to research are increased by: 537,000,000 from NOK 2339 400000 to NOK 2876 400000 922 Space activities 50 Norwegian Space Centre, reduced by 241,000 from NOK 72 150000 to NOK 71 909000 51 Equity of Andøya Space Center, may be transferred, granted by: [[New]] 282 600 000 70 Quota of European Space Agency [[ESA]] 7 620,000 from NOK 225 300000 to NOK 232 920000 71 International space activities are increased by: 15 440,000 from NOK 486 800000 to NOK 502 240 000 73 EU space programmes are reduced by: 19 600 000 from NOK 415 600 000 to NOK 396000000 76 Grants to Andøya Space Center may be transferred, awarded by: [[New]] 83,000,000 95 Equity Space Norway AS, increased by: 94 700 000 from NOK 72 558 000 to NOK 167 258 000 923 Marine Research Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 11,000,000 from NOK 633 250000 to NOK 622 250000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 34 500000 from NOK 170000000 to NOK 204 500000 924 International cooperation and development programmes 70 Grants shall be increased by: 3,945,000 from NOK 6850000 to NOK 10 795000 926 Marine Research Institute, research vessel Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 11,000,000 from NOK 168 450000 to NOK 179 450000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 65 000 000 from NOK 42000000 to NOK 107000000 928 Other marine research and development services 50 Grants to the Veterinary Institute shall be reduced by: 512,000 from NOK 65 500000 to NOK 64 988 000 929 Institute of Energy Engineering 70 Grants for the operation of nuclear installations shall be reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 328 150000 to NOK 318 150000 950 Management of state ownership 52 Risk capital, Nysnø Climate investment AS, is increased by: 105 000 000 from NOK 245000000 to NOK 350000000 72 Grants to Mantena AS post-employment benefit liabilities are granted by: [[New]] 100000 000 90 Capital deposits, Nysnø Climate investment AS, are increased by: 195,000,000 from NOK 455000000 to NOK 650000000 1112 Knowledge development and preparedness, etc. in the food field 50 Knowledge development, knowledge dissemination and preparedness, the Veterinary Institute, shall be increased by: 1 999 048 000 from NOK 120 606 000 to NOK 2 119 654 000 1115 Food Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1369 024 000 to NOK 1 384 024 000 1136 Knowledge development, etc. 50 Knowledge development, dissemination and preparedness, the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, is reduced by: 2,489,000 from NOK 233,816,000 to NOK 231,327 000 1137 Research and innovation 51 Basic appropriations, etc., the Norwegian Research Council, are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 187,815000 to NOK 202,815000 1140 Harvestable game resources – wild game management and subsidies, etc. [[The Wild Fund]] 71 Grants for game purposes may be transferred, reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 41,278 000 to NOK 32,278 000 1142 Directorate for Agriculture 77 Allowances for compensation in the event of the closure of the husbandry of fur animals may be transferred, increased by: 60,000,000 from NOK 160000000 to NOK 220000000 78 Contributions to the conversion in the event of the closure of the husbandry of fur animals may be transferred, increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 50000000 1149 Value-added and development measures in agriculture 73 Contributions to forest, climate and energy measures may be transferred, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 38 944 000 to NOK 88 944 000 1150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc. 50 Contribution to Agricultural Development Fund [[LUF]] 500,000 from NOK 1250,553 000 to NOK 1750,553 000 74 Direct grants may be transferred, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 9 404 044 000 to NOK 9 454 044 000 1151 For the implementation of the reindeer management agreement 51 Grants to the Development and Investment Fund shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 56 600 000 to NOK 66 600 000 1300 Ministry of Transport Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2750 000 from NOK 184 800000 to NOK 187 550000 1310 Air transport services 70 Purchases of domestic routes may be transferred, increased by: 1,000,000 from NOK 1718 100000 to NOK 2718 100000 71 Purchases of home transport services by northerly aircraft on a journey and special cargo are reduced by: 65 000 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 35000000 1313 Air traffic control Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 245 500000 to NOK 265 500000 1315 Grants to Avinor AS 70 Grants, awarded by [[New]] 4,270,000 1320 State Road Service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 180 000 000 from NOK 3723 700000 to NOK 3903 700000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Operation and maintenance of highways, may be carried over, may be used under item 29 and item 30, reduced by: 50,000,000 from NOK 7031 800000 to NOK 681 800000 28 Traffic and vehicle supervision may be transmitted, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 2 214 600 000 to NOK 2 204 600 000 29 OPS projects, may be transferred, may be used under item 30, shall be increased by: 110,000,000 from NOK 1 212000000 to NOK 1322000000 30 Road transport investments, may be carried over, may be used under item 22, item 29 and item 31 and cap. 1330, entry 66 is increased by 60,000,000 from NOK 13 129 400000 to NOK 13 189 400000 64 Improvements to county roads for timber transport may be carried over, increased by: 850000 from NOK 25 800000 to NOK 34 300000 65 Grants to county roads may be transferred, reduced by: 850000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 91 500000 72 Purchases of national road haulage services may be transferred, increased by: 235,000,000 from NOK 1537 900000 to NOK 1772 900000 1330 Specific transport measures 63 Specific grants for large collective projects may be transferred, reduced by: 200000000 from NOK 207000000 to NOK 1870000000 66 Rewards for urban grant schemes may be transferred, increased by: 62000000 from NOK 2650 500000 to NOK 2712 500000 71 Subsidies for commercial bus and boat routes resulting from infection protection measures shall be granted by: [[New]] 100000 000 1352 Railway Directorate 70 Purchases of passenger transport services by train, may be transferred, increased by: 770,000 000 from NOK 4574 200000 to NOK 5 344 200000 72 Purchases of infrastructure services — investment planning, transferability, use of item 71 and item 73 are reduced by: 278,000,000 from NOK 1602 900000 to NOK 1324 900000 73 Purchases of infrastructure services – investments, transferable, can be used under items 71, 72 and 74, increased by: 826,000,000 from NOK 11 569 700000 to NOK 12 395 700000 1357 Mantena AS 72 Grants to post-employment benefit obligations may be transferred, reduced by: 109 100000 from NOK 109 100000 to NOK 0 1360 Coastal works Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, reduced by: 75,000,000 from NOK 1869000000 to NOK 1794000000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 35 200000 to NOK 32 200000 34 Compensation for increased employer's tax may be transferred, reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 25 800000 to NOK 5 800000 72 Subsidies for the transfer of goods from road to sea may be transferred, increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 50000000 to NOK 75000000 1361 Samfunnet Jan Mayen Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 55 500000 to NOK 53 500000 30 New main building on Jan Mayen, awarded with [[New]] 2000000 1362 Centres for Oil Protection and the Marine Environment 50 Grants shall be reduced by: 54 000 from NOK 27 300000 to NOK 27 246000 1370 Postal services 70 Purchases of postal and banking services may be transferred, reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 617 400000 to NOK 587 400000 1400 Ministry of Climate and Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5,650,000 from NOK 293 006000 to NOK 287 356 000 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 17 250000 from NOK 102 724 000 to NOK 85 474 000 76 Support for national and international environmental measures may be transferred, increased by: 33 600 000 from NOK 101,328,000 to NOK 134,928,000 1410 Knowledge of the climate and the environment 23 MAREANO, may be transferred, increased by: 70000000 from NOK 45 577 000 to NOK 115 577 000 50 Basic appropriations under the Norwegian Research Council for environmental research institutes shall be increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 200 961000 to NOK 230 961000 51 Research programmes under the Norwegian Research Council shall be increased by: 115 000 000 from NOK 334 753 000 to NOK 449 753 000 70 National tasks of environmental research institutes shall be increased by: 500000 from NOK 38 007 000 to NOK 38 507 000 1411 Species Databases 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under heading 70, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 7 122 000 to NOK 10 122 000 70 Subsidies to species and habitat types may be transferred, may be used under item 21, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 29 666 000 to NOK 26 666 000 1412 Meteorology purposes 50 The Meteorological Institute shall be increased by: 2 019 000 from NOK 339 635000 to NOK 341 654000 70 International cooperation projects are reduced by: 6,480,000 from NOK 146 127 000 to NOK 139 647 000 1420 Directorate for the Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3 544 000 from NOK 712 534 000 to NOK 716 078 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 1500000 from NOK 306 097 000 to NOK 307 597 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. State action on the aquatic environment is increased by: 20 100000 from NOK 242,770000 to NOK 262,870000 61 Contributions to climate action and adaptation may be transferred, reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 287 832 000 to NOK 257 832 000 70 Subsidies for aquatic environmental measures may be transferred, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 40 792 000 to NOK 40 292 000 75 Payments for wreckage and vehicle and recreational boat allowances, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 110 900 000 from NOK 586 176 000 to NOK 475 276 000 77 Various organisations and foundations n.e.c. , increased by: 4,300,000 from NOK 15 416 000 to NOK 19 716 000 78 Outdoor purposes, may be transmitted, increased by: 12 800000 from NOK 183,891,000 to NOK 196,691000 83 Grants for actions against alien species may be transferred, increased by: 13 300000 from NOK 4000000 to NOK 17 300000 1422 Environmentally friendly shipping 70 Grants to private individuals may be used under heading 21 shall be increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 26 188 000 to NOK 51 188 000 1425 Fisheries measures 70 Grants for fishing purposes may be transferred, reduced by: 2 171,000 from NOK 17 14 145000 to NOK 14 974 000 1428 Enova SF 50 Transfer to the Climate and Energy Fund shall be increased by: 4,700,000 from NOK 3,184,450,000 to NOK 7,884,450,000 1429 Riksantikvaren Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 156 000 from NOK 149 268 000 to NOK 149 424 000 70 Grants to automatically peaced and other archaeological cultural memories may be transferred, increased by: 15 600 000 from NOK 33 164 000 to NOK 48 764 000 1432 Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund 50 At the disposal of cultural memory measures, shall be reduced by: 70000 from NOK 126 362,000 to NOK 126 292,000 1471 Norwegian Polar Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 244 359 000 to NOK 239 359 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 23 800000 from NOK 83 238 000 to NOK 107 038 000 1473 Kings Bay AS 70 Grants shall be increased by: 18,000,000 from NOK 34,893 000 to NOK 52,893 000 1600 Ministry of Finance 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 560000 from NOK 84 600 000 to NOK 79000000 1602 Financial supervision Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4,200,000 from NOK 419 900 000 to NOK 424 100000 1605 Directorate for Administration and Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 143 871,000 from NOK 607 400000 to NOK 751 271000 1610 Customs duties Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 15 900 000 from NOK 1552 200000 to NOK 1568 100000 1618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 213 333,000 from NOK 6 716 700000 to NOK 6 503 367 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Major IT projects may be transferred, reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 247 100000 to NOK 242 100000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 15 500000 from NOK 110 100000 to NOK 94 600 000 70 Grants shall be increased by: 733 000 from NOK 550000 to NOK 6233000 1620 Statistical Central Bureau 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 11 800000 from NOK 259 900000 to NOK 248 100000 1632 Compensation for VAT 61 Grants to municipalities and county councils, estimates, are increased by: 730,000,000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 27 730000 72 Grants to private and non-profit institutions serving households, estimates, are reduced by: 780,000 from NOK 228000000 to NOK 150000000 1633 Net scheme, State-paid VAT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 200000000 from NOK 7 40000000 to NOK 7 600000000 1634 Compensation for loss of income caused by the outbreak of the virus 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 165 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 265000000 70 Grants to eligible enterprises, estimates, are reduced by: 19 970,000 from NOK 50000000 to NOK 30 030000000 71 Compensation scheme for employers in the action zone and in Svalbard [[New]] 167,000,000 72 Support to return to work on leave, estimate allocation, granted with [[New]] 4,000,000 1650 State debt, interest, etc. 1 Operating costs, granted by: [[New]] 8,000,000 89 Interest and commissions, etc. in the case of domestic debt, estimates are increased by: 50190 000 from NOK 10 015 800000 to NOK 10 517 700000 1700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 80 900 000 from NOK 830 361000 to NOK 911 261000 43 At the disposal of the Ministry of Defence, may be transferred, reduced by: 4500000 from NOK 9 467 000 to NOK 4 967 000 71 Transfers to others may be transferred, increased by: 1 950,000 from NOK 86 226 000 to NOK 88 176 000 73 Research and development, may be transferred, increased by: 20 600 000 from NOK 85 393 000 to NOK 105 993 000 1710 Defence and new buildings and new installations Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 30,700,000 from NOK 4 414 351,000 to NOK 4 383 651 000 47 New buildings and new installations, can be transferred, can be used under cap. 1761, entry 47 is reduced by 339,000,000 from NOK 2 994 219 000 to NOK 2 655 219 000 1716 Defence Research Institute 51 Grants to the Defence Research Institute shall be reduced by: 3 755000 from NOK 198 975000 to NOK 195 220 000 1720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 113 205000 from NOK 9 473 868 000 to NOK 9 360 663 000 1731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 110 513,000 from NOK 5 979 989 000 to NOK 6090 502 000 1732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 28 554 000 from NOK 4545 051 000 to NOK 4573 605 000 1733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 340 032 000 from NOK 5 992 775000 to NOK 6 332 807 000 1734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 68 086 000 from NOK 1439 422 000 to NOK 1507 508 000 1735 Intelligence 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 24 209 000 from NOK 2 188 783 000 to NOK 2 212 992 000 1760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1760, entry 45, increased by 117 959,000 from NOK 1638 693 000 to NOK 1756 652 000 44 Joint financed investment, nationally financed share, may be transferred, increased by: 7,056,000 from NOK 83 794000 to NOK 90 850000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1761, entry 45 is increased by 30,227,000 from NOK 10 179 932 000 to NOK 10 210 159 000 48 Jointly financed investments, jointly financed, may be transferred, reduced by: 247 700 000 from NOK 350000000 to NOK 102 300000 1761 New base-solution fighter aircraft Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1761, entry 45 is reduced by 4,750,000 from NOK 178,076 000 to NOK 173,326 000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1760, entry 45, increased by 45,000,000 from NOK 5 863 471,000 to NOK 5 908 471 000 1790 Coast Guard Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 37 821,000 from NOK 1,184,726 000 to NOK 1,222,547,000 1791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 29 142,000 from NOK 876 527 000 to NOK 905 669 000 1792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 306 222 000 from NOK 940 928,000 to NOK 634 706 000 1800 Ministry of Oil and Energy 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under items 50, 71 and 72, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 16 500000 to NOK 36 500000 70 Grants to international organisations, etc. , increased by: 2000000 from NOK 650000 to NOK 850000 72 Grants for oil and energy purposes, may be transferred, may be used under heading 21, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 450000 to NOK 1450000 1820 Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 595000000 to NOK 597000000 60 Grants for flood and step-by-step prevention may be carried over, may be used under headings 22 and 72, increased by: 65 000 000 from NOK 66000000 to NOK 131000000 1830 Research and industrial development 50 Transfer to the Norwegian Research Council shall be increased by: 135,000,000 from NOK 890000000 to NOK 1 025000000 72 Grants to Norwegian Energy Partners are increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 34000000 to NOK 54000000 1840 CO 2 management 70 Administration, Gassnova SF, may be transferred, may be used under heading 72, reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 110000000 to NOK 105000000 71 Grants to the Technology Centre for CO 2 capture in Mongstad shall be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 143000000 to NOK 193000000 2309 Random expense Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1,800,000 from NOK 4955000000 to NOK 3155000000 2410 State Loan Fund for Education 50 Appropriations for education grants, estimates, are increased by: 223 752,000 from NOK 8 343 311000 to NOK 8 567 063000 70 Training grants, estimates, are increased by: 76 983,000 from NOK 3552 532 000 to NOK 3629 515 000 71 Other scholarships, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 30 048 000 from NOK 725 460000 to NOK 695 412000 72 Interest subsidies, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 252,345,000 from NOK 1392 334 000 to NOK 1 139 989 000 73 Depreciation, estimate allocation, is increased by: 149 084 000 from NOK 787 385 000 to NOK 936 469 000 74 Losses on loans increased by: 143,000,000 from NOK 392 500000 to NOK 535 500000 90 Increases in loans and interest payable, estimates, are increased by: 347 918 000 from NOK 33 812 217,000 to NOK 34 160 135000 2412 The Bank of Homes 90 New loans, estimates, are increased by: 2 412,000,000 from NOK 16 184000000 to NOK 18 596000000 2421 Innovation Norway 50 Innovation – projects, funds, are increased by: 250,000,000 from NOK 4215000000 to NOK 4465000000 52 Loan scheme for package tour operators – loss provision, granted by: [[New]] 1,000,000 54 Loss provision — Loan facility for short sea shipping and fishing vessels, granted by: [[New]] 150000000 70 Basic costs, increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 169 450000 to NOK 173 450000 75 Green platform, may be used under headings 50, 71, 72 and 76, granted by [[New]] 102 500000 76 Environmental technologies, can be transmitted, increased by: 500,000 from NOK 750000 to NOK 1250000000 79 Allowances to be granted to ship conditioning schemes by: [[New]] 75,000,000 91 Loan scheme for package tour operators — loans granted by: [[New]] 2,000,000 2426 Siva SF 70 Grants shall be increased by: 40,000,000 from NOK 37 200000 to NOK 77 200000 71 Grants to test facilities shall be increased by: 38 500000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 138 500000 2445 State-owned buildings 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -5 322 749 000 2 Operating costs 2 168 028 000 3 Depreciation 1,464 300 000 4 Interest on the capital of the country 100 808,000 5 For investment purposes 1 132 272,000 Sum: -457 341,000 30 Building design, may be transferred, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 515000000 to NOK 521000000 31 The start of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 187000000 to NOK 197000000 33 The continuation of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 160,000,000 from NOK 799 745000 to NOK 959 745000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 40,000,000 from NOK 303,864 000 to NOK 343,864 000 2460 Export Credit Guarantee Institute 50 Grants for loss provision – general guarantee scheme, granted by [[New]] 10,000,000 51 Grants for the administration of a new State guarantee scheme for the re-insurance of credit insurance are granted by: [[New]] 6000000 52 Grants for loss provision for the new State guarantee scheme for the re-insurance of credit insurance shall be granted by: [[New]] 1,620,000 90 Payment under drawing authorisation – general guarantee scheme, granted by [[New]] 450,000,000 2470 General government pension fund 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue, forecasting -637 825 000 2 Operating expenditure, estimate appropriations 470 649,000 3 Depreciation 126 378 000 5 For investment purposes 67,000,000 6 For regulatory funds -42,000,000 Sum: -15 798 000 2530 Parental carcass 70 Birth culls, estimated appropriations, are increased by: 390,000 from NOK 19 23000000 to NOK 19 620000 71 One-off maternity and adoption benefits, estimates are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 825000 to NOK 840000 000 72 Parental pension holiday allowance, estimated appropriation, is increased by: 10000000 from NOK 485000000 to NOK 495000000 73 In the event of adoption, the estimates are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 49000000 to NOK 51000000 2541 Day money 70 Allowances, estimates, are increased by: 36 267 200000 from NOK 23 244 800000 to NOK 59 512000000 2542 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. 70 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. , estimates are increased by: 40,000,000 from NOK 925000 to NOK 965000000 2543 Temporary social security schemes for self-employed, freelance and apprentices 70 Social benefits for self-employed and freelancers, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 1 100,000,000 from NOK 4 700000000 to NOK 3 600000000 71 Remuneration for apprentices, allocation of estimates, is increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 271000000 2620 Social benefits to a lonely mother or father 70 Transitional assistance, estimates, is increased by: 62000000 from NOK 1678000000 to NOK 1740000000 72 Social assistance for child care of a lone mother or father in work, estimates are increased by: 1,260 000 from NOK 122 740000 to NOK 124000000 73 Supplementary and school-related social benefits, estimates are reduced by: 5820 000 from NOK 58 820000 to NOK 53000000 76 Contribution advance shall be reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 715000000 to NOK 705000000 2650 Sykepenger 70 Sickness allowance for employees, etc. , estimates are increased by: 380,000,000 from NOK 44 640000000 to NOK 45 020000000 71 Sickness benefits for self-employed persons, estimated appropriations, are increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 1860000000 to NOK 1960000000 72 Nursing, training, n.e.c. , estimates are reduced by: 1110,000,000 from NOK 12,950,000 to NOK 11,840,000 75 Health care holiday pay, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 2260000000 to NOK 2230000000 2651 Clearance of duties 70 Clearance of work, estimate appropriations, increased by: 2 453,000,000 from NOK 29 029000000 to NOK 31 482000000 71 Supplementary aid, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 168000000 to NOK 148000000 72 Medical statements shall be reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 395000000 to NOK 370000000 2655 Disability 70 Misappropriation, allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 1,569 500,000 from NOK 100 699 500000 to NOK 99 130 000 75 Men's compensation in the event of occupational injury, estimated appropriations, shall be reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 66000000 76 Occupational injury prevention gml. legislation, the allocation of estimates shall be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 38000000 to NOK 40000000 2661 Basic and auxiliary aid, aids, etc. 70 Basic aid, estimates, is reduced by: 6,300,000 from NOK 1616 300000 to NOK 1610000000 71 Auxiliary services, estimate appropriations, increased by 29 800000 from NOK 1570 200000 to NOK 160000 000 73 Utilities, etc. in the course of work and training, shall be reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 130000000 to NOK 120000000 74 Supplements to cars are reduced by: 54 700 000 from NOK 799 700000 to NOK 745000 75 Improvements in functionality, assistive devices, are increased by: 202 600 000 from NOK 3417 400000 to NOK 3620000000 76 Improvement of functionality, assistive devices such as services, is reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 33000000 to NOK 325000 77 Orthopaedic aids, reduced by: 570000 from NOK 1685 700000 to NOK 1680000000 78 Hearing aids, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 772000000 to NOK 775000000 79 Activity aids for persons over 26 years of age are increased by: 48,000,000 from NOK 52 064 000 to NOK 100 064 000 2670 Age 70 Basic pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 1 320,000,000 from NOK 78 75000000 to NOK 77 430000 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 2,260,000 from NOK 154 780000000 to NOK 152 520000000 72 Pensions on income, estimates, are reduced by: 240,000,000 from NOK 4 360000000 to NOK 4 120000000 73 Special supplements, pension supplements etc. , estimates are reduced by: 120,000,000 from NOK 6410000000 to NOK 6290000000 2680 Survivors 70 Basic pension, estimates, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 1 10000000 to NOK 1150000000 75 Social assistance for child care for survivors in work, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 900000 from NOK 390000 to NOK 3000000 2686 gravitational assistance 70 gravitational allowances, estimate appropriations, are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 220000000 to NOK 230000000 2711 Specialist health services, etc. 70 Specialist assistance, reduced by: 31 675,000 from NOK 2 276 700000 to NOK 2 245 025 000 71 Psychological assistance is increased by: 3,900,000 from NOK 336 100000 to NOK 340 000 72 Dental treatment is increased by: 24 500000 from NOK 200 500000 to NOK 2225000000 76 Private laboratories and X-ray institutes shall be increased by: 22 500000 from NOK 1147 500000 to NOK 1170 000 2751 Medicinal products n.e.c. 70 Medicinal products, increased by 39,000,000 from NOK 10 332 000 to NOK 10 371 000 72 Medical consumables are reduced by: 70000000 from NOK 2110000000 to NOK 2 040000000 2752 Reimbursement of self-payment 70 Self-proprietary share cap 1 is increased by: 88 893,000 from NOK 5 451 274 000 to NOK 5 540 167 000 71 Self-proprietary cap 2, reduced by: 19 600 000 from NOK 1039 600 000 to NOK 1 020 000 2755 Health services in municipalities etc. 62 Remuneration scheme physiotherapists, may be used under heading 71, increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 454000000 to NOK 458000000 70 General medical care is reduced by: 44 798 000 from NOK 5 434 911000 to NOK 5 390 113 000 71 Physiotherapy, may be used under heading 62, reduced by: 48 200000 from NOK 1238 200000 to NOK 190000 72 midwifery, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 68000000 73 Chiropractor therapy, reduced by 7000000 from NOK 199000000 to NOK 192000000 75 Logopedic and orthopaedic treatments are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 192000000 to NOK 190000000 2756 Other health services 70 Health services in other EEA countries are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 17000000 to NOK 18000000 71 Health services abroad etc. , increased by: 5000000 from NOK 405000000 to NOK 41000000 72 Health services to non-residents, etc. , increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 245000000 to NOK 260000000 2790 Other health measures 70 Contributions, reduced by 17,000,000 from NOK 247000000 to NOK 230000000 2800 Government pension funds abroad 50 Transfer to the Fund shall be reduced by: 58 050,000,000 from NOK 244 951000000 to NOK 186 901000000 3041 Size 3 Lease income is increased by: 120000 from NOK 1 100000 to NOK 2 300000 3222 State schools and distance learning services 2 Sales income, etc. , increased by: 9 300000 from NOK 8 884000 to NOK 18 184 000 3225 Basic training measures 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 5,583,000 from NOK 23 617 000 to NOK 18 034 000 3288 International cooperation actions 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 7 115,000 from NOK 6 236 000 to NOK 13 351000 3292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Norwegian receipt training, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 5,213,000 from NOK 28 055000 to NOK 22 842 000 3410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Legal fee, increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 260 596 000 to NOK 305 596 000 3440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat 3 Sales revenue is increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 77 756 000 to NOK 92 756 000 4 Fee – Watchkeeping company, reduced by: 2,400,000 from NOK 4 376 000 to NOK 1 976 000 6 Fee — Foreign affairs, increased by: 77 000 000 from NOK 296 273 000 to NOK 373 273 000 7 Fee – civil service, increased by: 56 375 000 from NOK 1 121 054 000 to NOK 1 177 429 000 3442 Police College 2 Miscellaneous income, increased by: 7000000 from NOK 17 090 000 to NOK 24 090 000 3490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Assistant return from Norway for rejected asylum seekers, ODA-approved expenditure, is increased by: 365 000 from NOK 769 000 to NOK 1 134 000 3 Travel expenses for refugees to and from abroad, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 12 348,000 from NOK 31 094 000 to NOK 43 442 000 4 Asylum recipients, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 61 284 000 from NOK 343,876,000 to NOK 282,592 000 5 Reimbursement income is reduced by: 1 973 000 from NOK 7 018 000 to NOK 5 045000 6 Protection for refugees outside Norway, etc., ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 4,289,000 from NOK 21 982,000 to NOK 17 693,000 8 International migration work and reintegration in the home country, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 79 567 000 from NOK 113 692 000 to NOK 34 125 000 3614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Fee income, loans, is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 28000000 90 Repayment of loans shall be increased by: 400,000 from NOK 10 40000000 to NOK 10 80000000 3634 Labour market measures 85 Enrollment of mispayments, labour market measures, is increased by: 5,800,000 from NOK 200000 to NOK 6000000 3642 Petroleum control 3 Charges for supervision shall be increased by: 500000 from NOK 73 450000 to NOK 78 550000 3740 Directorate for Health 5 Health services to non-residents, etc. , increased by: 1000000 from NOK 78 653 000 to NOK 79 653 000 3910 Directorate for Maritime Affairs 2 Maritime personnel licences shall be increased by: 4,700,000 from NOK 14 700000 to NOK 19 400000 3917 Directorate for Fisheries 13 Income from breeding concessions, granted by: [[New]] 5,121,480,000 3935 Patent-controlled 3 Fees for intellectual property rights shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 96 300000 to NOK 106 300000 3950 Management of state ownership 51 Return of the loss provision for equity deposits to the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani AS, is increased by: 130000 from NOK 7000000 to NOK 8 350 000 95 Return of equity deposits to Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkompani AS, increased by: 130000 from NOK 7000000 to NOK 8 350 000 96 Sale of shares increased by: 75,000,000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 10000000 4150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc. 85 The market organisation for cereals is increased by: 650000 from NOK 50000 to NOK 650000 4312 Avinor AS 90 Deductions on loans shall be reduced by: 444 400 000 from NOK 444 400000 to NOK 0 4320 State Road Service Add User-ID Succeeded Sales income, etc. , is reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 277000000 to NOK 247000000 2 Miscellaneous charges shall be reduced by: 75,000,000 from NOK 513 400000 to NOK 438 400000 4481 Sale of climate allowances Add User-ID Succeeded Sales income is reduced by: 1 128 038 000 from NOK 8 288 459 000 to NOK 7 160 421 000 4605 Directorate for Administration and Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Economic services are increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 52 632000 to NOK 152 632000 4620 Statistical Central Bureau 2 Contract revenue shall be reduced by: 35 300000 from NOK 265 800000 to NOK 230 500000 4700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 500000 from NOK 40 856 000 to NOK 41 356 000 4710 Defence and new buildings and new installations Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 85,000,000 from NOK 3 954 288 000 to NOK 3869 288 000 47 Sale of property, reduced by: 47 822,000 from NOK 270 475000 to NOK 222 653000 4720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 1 367 000 from NOK 404 358 000 to NOK 405 725000 4731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 5,587,000 from NOK 93 538 000 to NOK 99 125 000 4733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 33,794,000 from NOK 111 532000 to NOK 145 326000 4734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 12,823,000 from NOK 21 626 000 to NOK 34 449 000 4760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 73 092,000 from NOK 33 979 000 to NOK 107 071 000 45 Larger equipment acquisition and maintenance, revenue, granted by [[New]] 41,000,000 48 Jointly financed investments, income, are reduced by: 247 700 000 from NOK 350 036 000 to NOK 102 336 000 4761 New base-solution fighter aircraft 1 Revenue, granted by [[New]] 250000 45 Larger equipment acquisition and maintenance, revenue, granted by [[New]] 20,000,000 4790 Coast Guard Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 146,000,000 from NOK 1 158 000 to NOK 147 158 000 4791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 40,000,000 from NOK 774 340000 to NOK 814 340000 4792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 1 719 000 from NOK 38 919 000 to NOK 37 200000 4800 Ministry of Oil and Energy 2 Miscellaneous income, by [[New]] 2,200,000 4811 Equinor ASA 96 Shares, by [[New]] 9 100000 000 4815 Petoro AS 96 Return of share capital Petoro Iceland AS, granted by [[New]] 2000000 4820 Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Fee revenue shall be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 33000000 to NOK 35000000 3 Sale of equipment, etc. [[New]] , by: 100000 5310 State Loan Fund for Education 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 8,900,000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 21 900 000 29 Appointment fees shall be reduced by: 4,406,000 from NOK 7 835000 to NOK 3429000 89 Pure fees shall be reduced by: 7 719 000 from NOK 112 335000 to NOK 104 616000 90 Reduced loans and interest payable are reduced by: 139 651 000 from NOK 11 653 207 000 to NOK 11 513 556 000 93 Conversion of training loans into scholarships shall be increased by: 61 165 000 from NOK 7 211 553 000 to NOK 7 272 718 000 5312 The Bank of Homes 90 Deductions are reduced by: 86 000 000 from NOK 12 719 000 to NOK 12 633 000 5325 Innovation Norway 50 Return from a nationwide innovation scheme is increased by: 22 700 000 from NOK 5000000 to NOK 27 700 000 85 The repayment of depreciated loans from seed capital funds shall be granted by: [[New]] 2,800,000 91 Returned capital, seed funds, is increased by: 75 300000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 85 300000 5351 Transfer from Norway’s Bank 85 Transfer, increased by 5,806 300,000 from NOK 13 900000000 to NOK 19 706 300000 5440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue 99 900 000 000 2 Operating costs -27 500,000,000 3 Expenses of exploration and field development -2 100000 000 4 Depreciation -22 900 000 000 5 Interest on the capital of the country -2 600 000 000 Sum: 44 800,000,000 5460 Export Credit Guarantee Institute 73 Income under new State guarantee scheme for re-insurance of credit insurance, by [[New]] 195,000,000 5490 NVE Facility Add User-ID Succeeded Sale of equipment, etc. , is reduced by: 100000 from NOK 100000 to NOK 0 5491 Depreciation of the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 30 Depreciation is increased by: 5,351,000 from NOK 1585 327,000 to NOK 1590 678 000 5501 Taxes on wealth and income 70 Excise duty, taxes on wealth, etc. from personal taxpayers shall be increased by: 3,667,000,000 from NOK 80 486 000 to NOK 84 153 000 72 Common taxes, etc. from personal taxpayers, reduced by: 143,000,000 from NOK 118 944000000 to NOK 118 801000000 5511 Customs revenue 70 Inches shall be increased by: 2,800,000 from NOK 31 00000000 to NOK 3 102 800000 5521 Value added tax 70 Value added tax, reduced by: 515,000,000 from NOK 323 470000000 to NOK 322 955000000 5556 Fee for non-alcoholic beverages, etc. 70 Fee for non-alcoholic beverages, etc. , is reduced by: 365,000,000 from NOK 3198000000 to NOK 2833000000 5571 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs 70 Petroleum control – sector fee, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 119 150000 to NOK 114 050000 5574 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries 71 Charges on intangible assets are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 164 300000 to NOK 154 300000 74 Fisheries research fee shall be increased by: 52,700 000 from NOK 267 300000 to NOK 320 000 5576 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food 72 Hunting and felling fees shall be reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 90000000 to NOK 81000000 5577 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Transport 74 Sectoral charges Coastal works are reduced by: 230 000 000 from NOK 814 500000 to NOK 584 500000 5578 Sectoral Fees under the Ministry of Climate and Environment 72 Fish fees shall be reduced by: 2 171,000 from NOK 19 460000 to NOK 17 289 000 5605 Interest on the treasury's cash and other accounts receivable 80 The central bank's current account in Norway's Bank is increased by: 648 300000 from NOK 917 400000 to NOK 1565 700000 83 Of general receivables, increased by: 67,000,000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 92000000 5607 Interest of the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund 80 Interest is reduced by: 130 000 000 from NOK 1034000000 to NOK 904000000 5611 Shares in the Vygruppen AS 85 Dividends are reduced by: 185,000,000 from NOK 185000000 to NOK 0 5615 The Bank of Homes 80 Interest is reduced by: 543,000,000 from NOK 3,40000000 to NOK 2,857000000 5616 Kommunalbanken AS 85 Dividends are reduced by: 510,000,000 from NOK 51000000 to NOK 0 5617 Interest of the State Loan Fund for Education 80 Interest is reduced by: 820 113 000 from NOK 5 172 909 000 to NOK 4 352 796 000 5622 Shares in Avinor AS 85 Dividends are reduced by: 208,000,000 from NOK 208000000 to NOK 0 5625 Interest and dividends from Innovation Norway 81 The interest margin, the innovation loan scheme, is increased by: 7 400000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 27 400000 85 Dividends, the Low Risk Loan Facility, are increased by: 14 600 000 from NOK 75000000 to NOK 89 600 000 5631 Shares in AS Vinmonopolet 85 The State’s surplus share is increased by: 168 400000 from NOK 66 100000 to NOK 234 500000 5652 Landskog SF - interest and dividends 85 Dividends are increased by: 30 250000 from NOK 33 750000 to NOK 64 000 000 5656 Shares under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 85 Dividends are increased by: 200 100000 from NOK 20 209 700000 to NOK 20 409 800000 5680 Statnett SF 85 Dividends are increased by: 126,000,000 from NOK 135000 to NOK 1261000000 5685 Equinor ASA shares 85 Dividends are reduced by: 4,650,000 from NOK 20 350000000 to NOK 15 700000000 5700 Revenue of the public sector 71 Social security contributions are reduced by: 143,000,000 from NOK 156 470000000 to NOK 156 327000000 72 Employers’ fees shall be reduced by: 8,372,000,000 from NOK 202 355000000 to NOK 193 983000000 5701 Miscellaneous income 73 Reimbursement by contributors shall be reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 230000000 to NOK 210000000 86 Recovery of errors, reduced by: 234 000 000 from NOK 120000000 to NOK 966000000 88 Assistive Technology Centres, etc. , increased by: 2500000 from NOK 77 500000 to NOK 80000000 5704 State guarantee for claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy 70 Dividends are reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 210000000 to NOK 185000000 5705 Reimbursement of daily allowances 70 Reimbursement of daily allowances, State guarantee in the event of bankruptcy, is increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 27000000 71 Reimbursement of daily allowances for frontier workers, etc. resided in Norway, reduced by 200000 from NOK 300000 to NOK 100000 5800 Government pension funds abroad 50 Transfer from the Fund shall be increased by: 234,545,458,000 from NOK 241 084 213 000 to NOK 475 629 671 000 5999 Statutory funds 90 Loans raised by: 55 358 601,000 from NOK 10 112 857,000 to NOK 65 471 458 000 ‘... Proposal No. 198 sounds like: ‘The government requests the extension of the temporary full pay compensation scheme for a minimum of 20 days in the case of leave out of the year’.» [[up to 6 G]] Proposal No. 204 sounds: ‘I In its Decision of 18 December 2019 on taxes on income and wealth, etc. for the 2020 year of revenue, the following shall be amended: the fourth indent of the first paragraph of Section 3-1 is replaced by the following: 21.2 pst. for the part of the income in excess of NOK 999 550. II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately.» Proposal No. 205 sounds: ‘The size consents to the setting of the following allowances with effect from 1 May 2020: – Billing representatives: SEK 790 398 per year – Government members: SEK 1 128 058 per year – Prime Minister: SEK 1 388 547 per year’ Proposal No. 207 sounds: ‘The government asks it to set up a state investment company with the aim of ensuring public ownership in medical production.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e26863	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 196, 201, 202 and 214 from Red. Proposal No. 196 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to extend the improvements in the daily money regulation out of the financial year.’ Proposal No. 201 sounds: ‘The government requests the return of the holiday supplement to the day-to-day payment scheme, which begins with the income year 2020.’;» Proposal No. 202 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that income from the full pay compensation scheme for 20 days in the case of leave gives rise to the earnings of holiday allowances paid in 2021.’ [[up to 6 G]] Proposal No. 214 sounds: ‘The government requests the removal of the 25 000-kronar limit in lost income in order to qualify for support through the Voluntary and Sport Compensation Scheme. This in order to include small organisations or organisations with low revenues in the scheme.’;» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e26897	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 199, 203, 209 and 211, from Red. Proposal No. 199 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary changes to ensure that the redundancy payment scheme works in line with the National Social Security Act § 1-1 [[Subject matter]] Proposal No. 203 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in connection with the State budget for 2021 with proposals for permanent increases in social benefits and social benefits rates from Social Security.’ Proposal No. 209 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that municipalities keep the total amount of child benefit out of the income base in the calculation of social assistance and to provide compensation in the State budget for 2021.’ Proposal No. 211 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the soldiers of the Home Corps are paid the holiday money they have earned from 2005 onwards.’ The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e26931	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 200 and 206 from Red. Proposal No. 200 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that persons who do not comply with the requirements of other income insurance schemes receive social assistance regardless of the economic needs test provided for in Section 18 of the Social Services Act.’ Proposal No. 206 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the context of the State budget for 2021 to file a case on the establishment of a six-hour day fund for the implementation of pilot projects with shorter working hours in the municipal sector as a measure for increased employment and better employment.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e26956	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 208 and 213 from Red. Proposal No. 208 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the price of dental treatment does not increase as a result of additional costs of protection against infection.’ Proposal No. 213 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the deposit facility for washing and handing out bodily clothing in the Army of North Norway is restored.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e26980	There is a vote on proposal No. 197 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to extend the system of increasing the daily allowance to 80 pst. of the daily allowance base up to 3 G, then 62,4 pst. on the basis of the daily allowance of more than 3 G and up to 6 G, to all recipients of the daily allowance. The amendment shall enter into force immediately.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e26997	There is a vote on proposal No. 210 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I Decision of the EEA Joint Committee 31 March 2020 amending Decision of the EEA Joint Committee 21 March 2020 amending Decision of the EEA Joint Committee 13 December 2019 on value added tax is amended as follows: [[chapter. 5521, 70]] Section 4 is replaced by the following: Section 4. Reduced rate by 6 pst. VAT is paid by 6 pst. turnover and withdrawal of services relating to: (a) passenger transport, etc. as referred to in Sections 5 to 3 of the VAT Act, b) the carriage of vehicles on vessels referred to in the VAT Act § 5-4; (c) the rental of hotel rooms, etc. as referred to in Sections 5 to 5 of the VAT Act; (d) the right to attend cinematographic positions as referred to in Sections 5 to 6 of the VAT Act; e) broadcasting services as referred to in the VAT Act § 5-7; f) access to exhibitions in museums etc. as referred to in the VAT Act § 5-9; (g) access to amusement parks, etc. as referred to in Sections 5 to 10 of the VAT Act; h) the right to attend sporting events, etc. as referred to in the VAT Act § 5-11. II The amendments under I shall enter into force on 1 April 2020.» The Green Party and the Centre have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e27043	There is a vote on proposal No. 212, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reorganise the clean-up of the defence sector under its own authority.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e27064	Case No. 6–21 concerns the second processing of laws and applies to legislative acts 141 to 156. There are no comments. Thus, the law of the Storting has been passed on the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-19.ana.ud168e27299	Before the meeting is closed, the President will draw the attention of representatives to the fact that the negotiations of the Grand Duchy will be resumed on Wednesday 30 September. As this is the last ordinary big meeting before the summer break in what has been an extraordinary spring session, the President – before the meeting is cancelled – will take the opportunity to thank all the co-representatives, members of the government, the staff of Storting, the press department and all those who otherwise have their daily work here in Stortinget, for good cooperation through a very demanding and unpredictable time. Many have had a different working day in the last few months, and the President will be grateful for the great flexibility and willingness of all involved. Not least the President would like you to have a really good summer! Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? It doesn't seem like the meeting's been cancelled.
