ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e25	The representative of Une Bastholm, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e39	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e44	I have the pleasure after the decision yesterday on behalf of the big-time representatives Karin Andersen, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Arne Nävra, Solfrid Lerbreck and myself to propose to ensure that people 0–49 years of age are not settled in hospital in violation of their own wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e49	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e65	‘Everything is going to be fine.’ It said to read in large and in small colorful letters under a rainbow, on a pavement and in thousands of windows across the country. Every day, we get a little bit smarter at the pandemic that's turned our society upside down. Every day we are one step closer to a vaccine and one step closer to what is going to be our new everyday life, after the crisis. I think we all know that it's a little daunting right now -- seven months almost in an exceptional state, with more uncertainty and less freedom than we ever thought we should experience. We quickly got control of the infection. And we could use our economic muscles to dampen the setback. The retrievement came faster than we saw for ourselves. But we're still reminded of how fragile the situation is. Preventing new outbreaks of infection is the most important job in the future, probably well into the next year. No one can do that job alone. We have to do it together. Each of us has to keep a distance, we have to wash our hands and be at home if we're sick, to protect the most vulnerable among us, to take care of the workplaces, to make things all right again – even if we know it's coming true. In the last few months, I've met people and businesses from all over Norway to hear their stories and their thoughts about the future. There's one word left: uncertainty. But it's often with a reassuring undertone of optimism and willingness to intervene – reassuring because we have to have private business on the team if we're to ride this storm off without losing track. The best thing we can do is to make sure that it can happen – and show you the way. With the budget for 2021, the government is strengthening the long-term efforts to strengthen the sustainability and competitiveness of the Norwegian economy. We started that job in 2013. In order to secure jobs and promote migration, we have invested more in knowledge, in research, in infrastructure and in growth-promoting tax incentives. The budget for 2021 is the next step in the strategy we put forward before summer, when the acute phase of the pandemic was behind us: We're going to take Norway out of the corona crisis. We're going to create more and include more. We're going to give security to people and businesses and help those who need it. We need to ensure good infectious disease protection and good health care treatment. We're going to meet the long-term challenges. The priorities in the budget shall bring Norway towards six objectives, all of which are about to come through this crisis, without losing sight of the long-term prospects. The first goal is to get people back to work. In March, the number of layoffs increased dramatically. In most cases, more than every 10 persons in the labour force were registered as completely unemployed at Nav. The picture has improved since then. But still more than 100,000 people are completely unemployed in Norway. There's too many of them. The most important thing for maintaining a society with small differences and good welfare arrangements is that as much as possible is at work. That's why we have to avoid getting a little bit stuck on a high level. We need to pay particular attention to young people who are on their way to work. And we have to avoid that those who initially had a weak connection with the labour market are going to run out permanently. Mobilising new jobs in the private sector has been an important part of the economic policy of the government for seven years. Before the crisis, the employment rate was rising. We have to get back to that trail. Since March, we have put in place strong measures to provide financial security for all those who have suddenly been deprived of the income base, to ensure that municipalities and health services have sufficient resources to continue caring for us, and to help viable businesses through this demanding period. The measures have worked. The activity in the Norwegian economy has come back after the dramatic decline in ours. But the recovery is fragile, the crisis is not over. We must take account of the fact that many enterprises — and especially industries such as tourism and culture — will continue to be affected by measures to prevent infection that restrict activity and that the order books to export companies will probably be diluted due to weak demand from the countries with which we are dealing. With our trading partners, the economic downturn has been even deeper, and the recovery has been weaker. In the budget for 2021, we add that the oil money consumption is going to be 313 billion. kr. It's equal to 3 pst. of the fund value and means that we can already be back next year on the long-term guide for the sustainable use of oil revenues. But it's at the same time over 60 billion. kr more than we used in 2019. The budget for next year will be an expansion of economic policy. Everything from road and rail construction, investment in defence, transfers to municipalities, counties and health services, new construction projects and various support schemes creates activity and work across the country. In addition, we will strengthen the commitment to labour market measures for those without a job. The Coronapandemic is going to change our habits. We've become more digital. Much indicates that we are going to travel less and be more at home offices. Lasting changes are changes that business needs to adapt to. We need to help business through the crisis – without weakening innovation and without destroying adaptability. It's a demanding balance. Businesses go bankrupt – in good times and in difficult times. We politicians have to be wise enough to admit that we don't know who tomorrow's winners are. The market has to decide which enterprises are to be included. Norway has natural resources, technology and competences that give us great opportunities. The second objective of the government's strategy is that we need to ensure more legs to stand on. We must continue to renew Norway. We need more jobs, in more industries, across the country. And the growth must come in private business. Over seven years in government, we have done a lot to improve the framework conditions for businesses. Competitiveness has been greatly improved, including: because businesses are using new technologies, and because we have lowered taxes towards the level of countries with which we compete. We have prioritised lower corporate taxes, lower marginal taxes on labour and lower taxes on wealth because it gives jobs and job opportunities. Now we cut the taxes even more, with broad reliefs in income taxes, such as lower tier taxes, higher minimum deductions on both wages and salaries, and on pensions and further reductions in the tax on working capital. It can give Norwegian owners muscles to invest in Norwegian workplaces. And we're increasing the tax advantage for those who buy shares in the company they're employed in. We want more employees to become partners in the companies. We also propose to change the hydro tax and provide the industry with significant liquidity. It will facilitate investment and necessary upgrades in an industry that creates activity in local communities across the country. In addition, we want to increase the credit card limit to NOK 60,000. It benefits young people, who can now keep a little bit more of the money they earn. From 1 July next year, we will also introduce withholding taxes on some payments to related companies in low tax countries. The aim is to counteract profit movements, to avoid taxation of income generated in Norway in another lower taxed country. Tax and levy are clearly the largest source of income in the State budget. The protection of the Norwegian tax base is therefore essential in order to keep taxes low for our businesses and jobs. With this budget, a normal family will pay 14 000 kroner less in taxes next year than if the red-green tax level from 2013 had been continued – 14 000 kroner for a normal family. In total, the tax and tax levels have been reduced by nearly 30 billion. NOK in our period of government. Through strong commitment to research and development, the government is creating ground for change and growth. In 2021, we're increasing R & D appropriations by more than 2 billion. kr, for more than 45 br. kr. Among other things, the money needs to be made available: to step up the long-term research and higher education plan and to participate in Horizon Europe and the EU space programme. Norwegian companies and researchers claim well in the competition for money from EU programmes. Participation that contributes to new jobs here and to solving many major societal tasks. We are also proposing funds for infrastructure and market development for hydrogen, new investment capital for Investinor and continuing the temporary ship guarantee scheme and the export financing scheme. And we will extend the Innovation Loan Framework under Innovation Norway to 2 billion. kr. With these measures, we are increasing the chance that the ideas that are being born today will become jobs tomorrow. Safe roads and a well-developed rail network simplify everyday life and make business more efficient — and facilitate growth throughout Norway. In 2021 we propose to grant money for, among other things. E8 in the north, E39 in the west, rv. 4 in the Inland and E18 in the Gulf. The budget also represents a historic commitment on the railways. For the first time it's added up to grant 30 billion. kr to the railway. It's more than a double since 2013. The government is giving very high priority to transport. It was a sector that screamed for renewal. The railway was under decay, and the road was built piecewise and divided, with a long planning time. We have both increased the appropriations and reformed the whole way we think about transportation, for example. through Nye Veier AS and through the railway reform. We have broken up monopolies and increased competition in order to give people a better travel offer – and to get more road and path for tax money. An increasing proportion of transport projects are about promoting climate-friendly solutions. Both railway activity and urban investment help more people to choose green everyday and public transport. Now we propose to strengthen the follow-up to the urban growth and reward agreements by almost 20 pst. Renewing Norway is largely about making our society greener. Tomorrow is going to require that of us. That is why the third objective of the strategy is to create a greener future. We are strengthening the ambitious climate policy, because we see it working. Norwegian climate emissions are falling – for the fourth consecutive year. Our climate policy is based on the polluter-pays principle. We use the allowance and fee system to make sure that. It makes it attractive to choose the options that our children and grandchildren would have liked us to use. It motivates companies to develop new, climate-friendly technologies, and it contributes to the priority of best climate action. That's how we use the market in the service of the environment. Our climate policy is also focused on green technologies and markets for new zero-emission solutions. Norway has the world's greenest car park. We are well on track to achieve the goal that almost all new passenger cars sold in Norway in 2025 will be electric cars. Almost every other passenger car is already an electric car. So politics works. We're also proposing 2.7 billion. kr for the work on the capture, transport and storage of CO 2. The bet is fanned, inter alia, by: The Langskip project – the largest climate project in Norwegian industry ever. In the context of climate, there are no «us» and «them». There is only "we". Climate change is a major threat to the most basic human needs: clean water, clean air, enough food and a safe place to live. As one of the first countries in the world, we have strengthened the climate targets for 2030 under the Paris Agreement. The pandemic has shown us that we can make a difference, but also that success requires local action, a national strategy and international cooperation. The same is true of climate policy. Knowledge and competence are the greatest and most important value we have as a nation. Our greatest potential lies in how we invest in it in the future. The fourth objective of our strategy is precisely to build skills. We're going to keep working so that more people get the skills they need in tomorrow's work and business, as we've been doing for seven years. We humans learn all our lives. In early childhood, safety, care and interaction with parents, nursery workers and health centres are essential for development and learning. The government places great emphasis on early interventions and high quality in everything from parental support and health centres to kindergarten and school. When we say ‘early effort’, it should apply all the way — from kindergarten and throughout school. In the budget, we give priority to promoting competences in kindergartens and strengthening special education. Children who are struggling shall receive better assistance and support. We will continue the escalation of the teacher-specialist system to 2,300 in the autumn of 2021. So we're on our way to the government's goal of 3,000 teacher specialists. Nearly eight out of ten students complete high school. It's a record lot. But that's not enough. Our goal is that nine out of ten should complete, and in the next year we hope to be yet another step closer to that goal. In spring, the government launched the Education promise in 2020, a large-scale commitment to skills measures and greater capacity in education at all levels. That's going to continue in 2021. We want to increase the capacity of universities and colleges so that about 5,000 more students can take higher education. In the distribution, we give priority to increasing the capacity of trades where we know that the future skills needs are, among other things. in the fields of medicine, nursing, child protection, technological subjects with emphasis on ICT and teacher training. We will continue to provide more people with the opportunity to complete secondary education in 2021, both graduates without diplomas and unemployed and outsourced workers. We also propose that funds be allocated to 2,100 more places in higher vocational education and to provide the county councils with more money, so that students who do not receive an apprenticeship can expand school provision. In addition, we will continue the extraordinary increase in the apprenticeship allowance in spring 2021 and the increase in the grant to the scheme Professional letter at work. This will improve Norway’s ability to meet the challenges of the coronary apathy and support it throughout life during the skills reform Learn. No one should go out to date because of lack of competence. Crises bring great trials. Often they require change. So there are also crises with opportunities. It also applies to this one. We will seize those opportunities, come out strengthened, better prepared for tomorrow. And what's tomorrow? Well, it's the little family that's about to be three and is looking for their first dwelling. It's the 18-year-old who's right now wondering what the rush hour is like, and what she's going to do after it. It's the 14-year-old who thinks homework is a lot, and who is happy to grow up and decide for himself. It's the 10-year-old who dreams of becoming a football pro. It's the six-year-old who smiles without a lighter on his first class picture. And that's all of those that are not yet born. That's what this is about -- what society we're going to leave to them, and how we can make sure that as much as possible the chance to contribute and participate, no matter where they've grown up, and no matter who their parents are. The fifth objective of the government's strategy is to include more. A few weeks ago, I met 25-year-old Thomas. He dropped out of high school and was sitting unmotivated at home for three long years before he got help from Resource Tromsø to find the joy and interest in the cooking profession. Now Thomas apprentice is with good scoring and mastery feeling in everyday life. "I just want to feel that I am good at something, and that I can create a future for myself," he told me. We have to create more such stories. When the labour market is difficult, it is particularly difficult for the many who lack formal competence or professional experience, have reduced working capacity or holes in the CV. In 2018, the government launched the inclusion campaign, which is a common societal mission to get more people to work. Year after year we have strengthened this effort, and in the budget for next year we are further stepping it up, among other things. with measures aimed at young people. We will also increase the allocation of individual job support, so that more people with mental or drug problems can fit into their working life, as well as training, mentoring and salary subsidies to help employers employ more people with disabilities or gaps in the CV. This fall, author Zeshan Shakar published a book with the striking title "Yellow Book". It's about Mani and his journey from growth in Haugenstua via higher education at BI to a job as a consultant in the Ministry of Growth. We get a glimpse into the minds of a well-functioning and well-trained young man, who still has to maneuver and try to find his place in a life of great contrast between the environment he comes from and the environment he's gradually become a part of. The story of Mani is the story of a society where everyone can succeed, regardless of the background, but also about the challenges and distances that social and cultural differences continue to create between us. Including more is about ensuring that such differences do not prevent further participation. In 2018, the government launched the Integration Strategy through knowledge, the main objective of which is for more immigrants to come to work and participate in society. We are now implementing the largest integration reform since today's Prime Minister was the municipal minister in 2003 and put in place the introduction programme. Good integration policies are important for individuals and for us as societies, and they are good economic policies. It is particularly important to provide more language training they need to actively participate in Norwegian working and social life, and to get more immigrant women out in the labour market. In 2021 we will, among other things, continuing and strengthening Job opportunities, strengthening work towards negative social control and prioritising measures for diversity in the labour market. A good crop lasts life out. Good family policies provide the basis for safe childhood, better quality of life and increased participation in society. We've strengthened family protection. We are betting on courses and measures for first-time parents. And we're increasing the effort against violence and assault. Last year we increased child welfare for the first time in 20 years. From September this year we further increased it for children up to six years, and until next year we will again increase it for them up to six years, as promised in the government platform. It means most to those who have the least. Children who grow up in low-income families are better developed when the family is given greater financial security. Therefore, we also increase the one-off benefit for parents without the right to parental leave. Leisure cards are a good way to avoid Mom and Dad’s wallet deciding whether to participate in organized activities. We propose to extend the trial project to several municipalities. We will also strengthen the national grant scheme for children from socially and economically disadvantaged families, so that they can participate in holiday and leisure activities. Outdoors can lead to people losing the opportunity to create a good life for themselves. Good growth conditions and good schooling and knowledge are important to reduce inequality and to create opportunities for all. To build strong communities, we need to reduce poverty, implement the integration promise and create a society where people can live a free and independent life. The last six months have shown us how important it is that we trust each other, how much that means that we have strong communities. Every day we witness events in the world that remind us that it is not a matter of course that it is. We have to keep the important foundation for our society to function so well. The sixth objective is therefore to maintain the security and trust of our society and to maintain a strong international commitment. It is also about maintaining a society that provides care for those who need it, helping people on their feet and providing secure communities. The skilled and dedicated people who work in healthcare deserve all the applause they have received this year. But the health sector needs more than applause. It needs money to maintain the necessary corona preparedness, to deal with increased costs of infectious diseases, to provide treatment to those who have to wait, and at the same time to provide good health care to all patient groups. We're proposing to set off 11 billion. DKK for this, including SEK 3.8 billion. kr for covid-19 vaccines and SEK 1.1 billion kr for the emergency storage of medicinal products. With infection prevention measures and preparedness, it will be difficult to make full use of the capacity of hospitals in 2021, but with this budget, we will make it possible for waiting times to slow down again next year. We add up to an activity growth in hospitals of 2.3 pst. The government also strengthens its efforts to create the patient’s health service and proposes over 60 million. kr for personalised medicine. This will improve the ability of healthcare to provide accurate diagnosis and medical care tailored to the individual patient. We continue to step up efforts in the field of drugs and mental health and the capacity of care services, and we will expand the effort of state-funded care services with six new municipalities. Many older people have been socially isolated as a result of infectious diseases. The government is proposing $60 million. to voluntary and non-profit institutions serving activities and social communities for the elderly. Municipalities and county councils depend on a good and predictable economy in order to offer us important welfare services where we live. In recent years, the local economy has been given a real boost. The tax intake has been higher than expected, while the cost of pensions and demography has been lower. Municipalities and county councils are making a decisive effort to get through the coronary crisis well. The government has always been clear that municipalities will be compensated for additional and minor income related to the pandemic. In the budget for 2021, we're adding up to a growth in the free income of about 2 billion. kr and a special supplement of SEK 1.9 billion. kr, so that the level of income in the future is not affected by a temporary reduction in the tax revenue in this year. We have also set up a working group to identify the economic impact of the coronary pandemic on the municipal sector. When that group presents its position later in October, we will have a better basis for assessing the impact on municipalities and counties. We will then present further proposals for funding to municipalities and counties for both 2020 and 2021. In March, we strengthened the police with 400 temporary posts to ensure sufficient capacity to handle tasks related to enhanced border control, without jeopardising the ability to ensure safety, law and order in Norway. Today we propose to make these posts permanent. That means we're going past the target set for two policemen per thousand inhabitants, and we're getting the strongest police crew in modern times. In 2021, we want over 2,000 more police officers than we had in 2013. The police operating budget has increased by 4 billion. kr since we joined. Increased major activisation characterises the security situation in the world. The threat picture is more complex than before, and it also changes rapidly. It means something to our security as well. Throughout the government period, we have strengthened both the defence capacity and preparedness in Norway. It's been absolutely necessary. And the bet must continue. It must also work to improve the efficiency of the defence sector. We are proposing to increase the defence budget by 3.5 billion. NOK 2021. We're modernizing the defense with big investments, like new fighter planes, submarines, maritime patrol planes and helicopters. By doing so, we are following up both the current long-term plan and the step-up proposed in a new long-term plan. We keep what we promise. The level of activity of the Defence shall be high in the future as well. Norwegian departments shall train and practise with allied forces in Norway. And we're going to continue a strong international commitment to competent forces in operations abroad through, among other things. UN and NATO. We will also be affected by how other matches in the international arena play out in the future. Therefore, we must work continuously to maintain good and mutual relations and strong cross-border cooperation. We are living at a time when the counterclaims for free trade and binding international cooperation are growing stronger. Liberal democracy is under pressure in several places. It is our duty to stand up to such counterpowers. It's our duty to counter polarization. Our answer should be an outstretched hand. Our answer shall be to share experience and knowledge. Our answer should be to keep working so that we can participate as much as possible in the development of wealth. Norway shall continue a strong international commitment. We're going to continue to meet the goal of shutting down 1 pst. of GNI for assistance each year. For 2021, that means a donation of 38.1 billion. kr. The pandemic is particularly severe in poor countries with weak health systems and has shown us the importance of both aid and investment in health. Norwegian contributions to vaccination and molestation have saved at least one million lives. And the efforts to build up public health have strengthened the country's ability to cope with virus outbreaks. Norway’s global health commitment and leadership continue. We are among the countries that lead the so-called ACT-A collaboration for global efforts to provide test equipment, medicines and vaccines against the coronary virus. In the last few months, many of us have heard from people we've met, how lucky we are because we live in Norway now. But why is that so? What characterizes us as a nation? What is it that constitutes the steady base mountain, which I think we all know we're on? "Everything is going to be fine" stood it in thousands of windows. For me, these infantry and rainbow colors were the very expression of why we're coming together. We're in this together. Across political divisions, we agree on some very fundamental principles of our society, principles that have credibility and trust because they have proved to tolerate both unrest and the tooth of time, because they are based on the recognition that some issues are greater than party politics. In the last six months, we have gained benefits from building a public debate with respect for the opponent, trust in each other and cross-political agreement on some fundamental prerequisites for the nation of Norway in 2020: the welfare society, which means that no one falls outside, the tripartite cooperation, which contributes to the greatest possible job, and the rule of action, which ensures a long-term and sustainable economic policy – to name someone. We're going to pass on nature and the environment at least as well as we took over it. We're going to manage the oil wealth so that our descendants get at least as much joy from it as we do. We will take international responsibility for those who need it the most, for trade, for cooperation and for peace. In the same way, we have to make sure that the foundations of our society remain as steady as they are now. For this year we've really come to know what that means. With the budget for 2021, the government is taking important steps to bring Norway out of the coronary crisis and at the same time ensure that we meet the long-term challenges facing it. Everything's gonna be fine. I hope for a good cooperation with the Stortinget on the budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e279	A comment round is now opened, limited to one entry from each group of lots with a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. After each post from the opposition parties, the Minister of Finance will be given an opportunity to comment for up to 2 minutes. Thereafter, the representative of the opposition party shall be given the opportunity to comment on the final report for up to 2 minutes. Furthermore, a comment from the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister will be opened in up to 3 minutes to the end. The President requests that the whole comment round be taken from the two interlocutors on the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e290	The State budget will be provided at an appropriate time for the country. Both pandemic and oil price falls are some of the things that have affected the Norwegian economy in the last few years, and the government cannot be held responsible for unrealized events. But the government should be responsible for what they do, and what they don't do, on their guard, and their guards have now been on duty for almost eight years. The most important task right now is to get more people to work. Instead, we see that after eight years of Erna Solberg's legacy is twice as many young destitutes and soon twice as many billionaires. It's a scandal that the big money has been spent on increasing the differences between people. There are eight years when the government has made it easier to spend money on having money rather than spending money on going to work. If you commute from Bryne to Stavanger to work, Erna Solberg has increased your tax by well over NOK 5000. If you have a child in the nursery, there has been more than NOK 3,300 to pay for that place. So the increase in child welfare from next year that we've heard about is already eating up of politically charged increased spending on the same families of children. The government has made it cheaper to be billionaire and more expensive to be sick. They increase the properties of 8,000 Northmen in the middle of a coronary ape. The Labour Party believes that it is time for workers to keep more of their own wages and that we have a stronger common well-being for all. For eight years we have seen that the richest people in the country have been getting richer and richer. Recently it was fixed again, this time in a report that the government itself has ordered, that the property tax is a good tax, that it makes it profitable to assign people. But once again, government over 1 billion. kr in tax cuts for people with large equity assets, while they still refuse to spend 1 billion. to increase pension payments to the pension list, as proposed by the Labour Party. And from 1 January, they're going to cut the social benefits of those who've been unemployed because of the coronary crisis. This gets no activity up and down. What it does is, it weakens our sprawl layer, our well-being and our ability to deal with new crises. Something else that has been more than double is our trade deficit – in just ten years. In the coming years, we need hundreds of thousands of new jobs to get the whole people to work. The export of goods and services needs to be raised in order to finance our well-being. In this budget, we should have an investment decision for two carbon capture installations. Instead, the government has proposed one in the state budget, and the Progress Party has said that there will be none. Now one of the future industries of our country is at risk. The Labour Party would rather have a government budget that would secure jobs, strengthen welfare, cut climate emissions, and be able to create jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e305	The representative Tajik is concerned about inequality. So am I. That's why we give priority to the big money to give children and young people the opportunity. One of the most important things we do to reduce inequality is to ensure that more young people complete high school, to implement an integration policy so that more people with immigrant backgrounds can get into work, and to help us get more jobs. It might be tempting to ask the representative Tajik if the representative has ever visited a district hotel with a private owner who asked if they could not be so kind as to get higher taxes on wealth. Higher taxes on wealth do not contribute to more jobs. We're stepping down the tax on working capital, and we're doing that precisely because in the crisis we're in now, it's a very bad answer to increase taxes. Then we have to make sure that we strengthen the private enterprises so that they can secure jobs and invest in new jobs. I am pleased – I must say – that the representative Tajik says that ordinary people should keep more of their own income. But let me just remind you what I also said in the speech, namely that a normal family today pays 14 000 kroner less in taxes than what you would do with the red-green 2013 tax level. So if over the course of these seven years there has been a change in the Labour Party's policy, and now you're to lower the tax for them with the lowest incomes, something has happened positively over these seven years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e314	I note that the Minister of Finance is concerned about increasing differences. We have to look at the outcome of the government's policy. Differences have increased, they're larger than one believed. It may be tempting to ask the Minister of Finance how many jobs these cuts in the wealth tax have actually created. We've been asking for eight years, and the government hasn't been able to document a new job. On the contrary, what we have seen documented is that wealth tax cuts and tax cuts to the government have gone to those who already have the most, it has increased private consumption, it has no growth or jobs. Right has an unlikely old-fashioned understanding of what it means to promote growth or to create work. It's not primarily investing in axes that promote growth, it's investing in human beings. Money in axes will increase personal wealth, but social justice increases the value of all. And then we have to stop paying for women to be out of work – the way Right does. We have to stop increasing the maximum prices in kindergartens, so it'll be more expensive with well-being – as the government does. The right is also cut in the crew of the kindergartens, so that one could risk our kids being followed up worse. It helps to weaken the well-being of everyone. It's the wrong use of money when you choose to cut the tax of those who already have the most, while at the same time making it more expensive to be sick in the middle of a coronary ape. It's the wrong use of money when you choose to sponsor VAT on expensive electric cars. Why should the community be involved in financing luxury consumption? These money needs to be spent on people, we use it on welfare, we use it on the municipalities, which are deeply concerned that they won't have enough money to invest in the welfare of people where they live. They needed more care. The government boasts that they give more to hospitals, but they also have a few who are still in the budget. The reduction for hospitals alone is nearly 800 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e323	We have experienced the deepest setbacks in the Norwegian economy in the post-war period. We've been together, and everyone has contributed to the hard work. Fortunately, in the last few months, the activity has recovered, but many people are aware of the uncertainty. The government provides a budget that has as its field of activity to create more and include more – to address the challenges that Norway faces with the pandemic, but also the challenges that were there before and will be there afterwards. The measures in the year’s budget provide support and activity in districts, green conversion and growth in business, security and support to those who need it, and will build competences for the future. I think the Minister of Finance is pointing out a good way out of the crisis: getting people back to work, helping businesses get back into business, avoiding unnecessary bankruptcies, safe jobs, making sure that we have more legs to stand on, investing in research and development, building roads and bridges, putting thousands of work hands into action, continuing to create a green future, building skills, ensuring that those at risk of not completing high school – which is found in another type of statistics later in life – get through, and that those who are outside the labour market get into working life. That's what's doing with the real differences in Norway. We will also ensure that those who are now unemployed can continue to build their skills, so that they meet rusted when they come back to work one day. We're going to include more, we're going to make sure that the inclusion virtue and the integration virtue continues, as we've had a record bet on. And then we're going to make sure not least to maintain the security and trust of Norwegian society. Norway has spent billions of dollars, and there I would like to thank all the parties in Stortinget for a good cooperation in dealing with this crisis. That's why it's also important that we now start looking at the way out of it. That's what you do with this budget. Many businesses went from full to zero overnight, but they won't go from zero to full again so fast. This means that we must continue to have a fiscal policy that creates a good framework for business. This is actually about who takes care of the Norwegian holdings, the Norwegian owners and Norwegian ownership. I am therefore pleased that the government continues to lower the tax on working capital and takes care of the Norwegian owners, who are now going to bet on Norway and create Norwegian jobs in competition in an uncertain international situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e340	This budget is a good reminder of why the Progress Party left the government. It seems that the Left and Christian People's Party have been given even more leeway after the Progress Party left the government. The country is in crisis. Thousands are on leave or have lost their jobs, and many are concerned about the future. The government is adding to this budget to spend more than 313 billion. oil crowns. Nevertheless, we see that an extra bill is sent to sick people, which is simply unsocial. It hits most of the ones that have the least. The changes in self-employment in health will affect one million Nordics. Many businesses are already struggling. Here the government adds that the tax burden will increase further. Not least the drivers notice that the Progress Party is out of government. That's almost 1 billion. NOK in increased fees. Buying diesel cars, petrol cars and hybrid cars is becoming more expensive. Most of the growth in the transport budget goes to the railway, at the expense of the road. It's nice that the government follows culture and sport. But we find absolutely nothing for maritime nutrition — an industry in crisis. On the contrary, we see that the net pay system is cut, the situation of seafarers is deteriorating, in a situation where an industry that employs thousands of people throughout the country is at risk of losing a lot of jobs. It's simply incomprehensible. There are two areas that are being screened. It is put on in part in health, and there is very little or nothing for the maritime industry, but two areas are protected, as usual, despite the fact that we are in a crisis situation: the number of quota refugees is kept up, and the aid budget is protected as always. This is the wrong priority. Now we have to give priority to our own country and our own inhabitants. As far as border trade is concerned, there is a small cut – a drop in the sea – that probably will not do anything about the leakage we see in Sweden. We want to stop the sponsorship of Sweden that we've been doing until now. This is going to be tough negotiations. There is a good deal we agree on here, but it is a lot to tackle — both to correct and not least to add — in order to ensure that businesses and people in Norway get through the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e357	I look forward to good discussions with the Progress Party on the budget for next year. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed on seven state budgets in a row. We have found good solutions for both businesses and jobs throughout Norway. We have agreed on strong commitment to transport and strengthening important welfare services, and I hope that we can find good solutions this time as well. I just want to make a few comments about the excesses in the health sector. Today, there are two self-interest groups — one for medical visits, medications, x-rays and one for rehabilitation and physiotherapy. Those with the highest health costs will have lower proportions with the proposal we have put forward. 190 000 people will receive NOK 1450 less in proportion. It's social. So that's how part of us have to pay a little bit more, but a maximum of 700 kroner. We will also have a separate shielding system in place to protect the most vulnerable, including those who are most vulnerable. as established by Oslo. Then I want to say, yes, we're passing on the Granavolden platform's formulations of 3,000 quota refugees and 1 pst. by GNI in aid, but we are also continuing matters that were very important for the Progress Party. The reduction of property taxes was important for the Progress Party. We're going on with that. Investing in state-funded care for the elderly was important for the Progress Party. Of course, we will continue to do the same. For us, it's important that we follow up what we've agreed on. I am sure that there will be new demands in the negotiations that are coming, and that there will certainly be tough negotiations, but I hope that we will be able to find together, as we have done over seven years. It's important for the jobs of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e368	The Progress Party wants to find solutions, but we are going to make clear demands on the table, which is also adopted by our government. It is about us now putting Norwegian interests first. It is about reducing the number of quota refugees and aid, because we believe that we must now give priority to Norwegian interests. And we believe that border trade charges must be reduced. There we talk a lot about inclusion and getting people with holes in the CV at work. There are a few things you can do that will actually facilitate it. We see that thousands of new jobs have already arrived in the retail trade and in neighbouring industries, and we have the opportunity to increase it if we just stop sponsoring the Swedes. Therefore, I hope the government is ready for a proper cut in taxes, which benefit ordinary people, and not least provide increased income for Norway and more jobs. Then it becomes important for us to secure the elderly, the sick and the pensioners. There is also a lot to fix on the transport budget, which we see suffer from the fact that the Progress Party is out. But in the case of excesses, it has been an important matter for the Progress Party for all years. In fact, we believe it is important to ensure that people have low self-esteem, so that most people get reasonable health care. Here you add up to an increase for one million Northmen. Many people can pay it without problems, but it will also hit people with bad advice, and who already have trouble getting the economy around. I look forward to good negotiations, tough negotiations. The most important thing for us is to secure jobs, secure the Norwegian people through this crisis and ensure that we have a strong business life when we get out of it, which stands for value creation, jobs and employment, so that we can maintain strong growth throughout the country and secure Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e377	This is a little new tones from the Progress Party, because when Siv Jensen was Minister of Finance, she made a new Norwegian record of increasing the fees, and she was also indebted to Norway's tax queen when the fees had increased by over 6.5 billion. kr on her watch. So they increased the taxes on non-alcoholic beverages, on chocolate, on air passenger charges, on VAT, and they made proposals to introduce plastic bag tax. There is no finance minister ever that has been as creative on the fee side as Siv Jensen. But that's the results of the Progress Party policy we see a lot of it again here too. Yesterday, I had a debate with Prime Minister Erna Solberg about the results of the railway reform, which she has been so proud of, and Erna Solberg used an expression that I do not repeat so often, that the government was entirely 'nazi' in a certain area, in the pay policy, and let's go into the pay policy. Because what we saw then was that the directors' wages in the Norwegian railway have exploded. Then we see this budget today: how does it turn out for them in the director's office? Take the railway manager, who has approx. Five million. kr in income. Anyone with over 1 million. kr in income, will receive on average NOK 2 900 in tax cuts, while the washing staff on the train, who clean the train, who have been cut in the pension and have more and more demanding conditions, will get zero. What kind of policy is this, that those who already have the most money and have been the big payrolls, are the ones who are going to get the big tax cuts? There is poor right-wing policy – very poor right-wing and differential policies – and that is unhealthy. For in Norway we have had a policy where we have promised each other, given tax cuts to those who have the least, not to those who have the most, and where we have strengthened the arrangements for ordinary people. Then we see the travel industry, which is now in deep, deep crisis. What's going on there? Well, you have to increase the fee. Today the fee is 6 pst. – so the VAT on travel life and the transport industry is 6 pst. From 1 January it shall be 12 pst. It is a targeted attack on Norwegian workplaces. That's about. 170,000 jobs in tourism-related industries. It's extremely dramatic. And then we look at Norwegian seafarers, where you cut into the net pay system for Norwegian seafarers. Why cut the net pay scheme for Norwegian seafarers in a situation where unemployment is high and the Norwegian maritime sector is struggling? It is a targeted attack on workers that keeps the wheels running along the coast. We depend on these people, and not on the attack that's now taking place. Then we see, with regard to district policy, that the government is once again warning that a new round of merger should be held, after the failure of the reform they have implemented. Erna Solberg was unable to defend it yesterday, because there is no way to defend it. Costs have increased, taxes have increased, red tape has increased. It has been very bad, but the government is notifying us of new grips. And at the top of it all, where are you going to tighten into the municipalities? Well, for those who have least, resource-intensive services, that is, for those who are multi-disabled, for children who have special problems, which are especially demanding for municipalities to take care of. That's where the government has to cut, and it's really petty.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e393	In the course of yesterday's debate, the President should have stated that the word 'nazi' will probably be referred to as an inappropriate word and is not in parliamentary vocabulary. That is why I would like to address it today and say that it is not a word I want to say is in parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e398	What we are now hearing is that the representative of Battle Violence Vedum has a slightly simple way of dealing with the facts. The representative was engaged in the post yesterday and also today by the manager’s salary to the head of the Vy. The new head of the Vy, who was hired in the spring of 2020, got his salary cut by 20 pst. Compared to when the Senterpartie headed the Ministry of Transport. So if you're first very concerned with management wages -- I am, too, because we're leaders, we have to go ahead -- it was like the Senter party had their bucket pants on, while we made sure that salary was cut in the spring of 2020. Otherwise Battle violence affects Vedum a theme that I think we can agree on, namely the importance of maintaining a strong travel life. We are now sitting and having good conversations with the social partners to ensure a good support system for travel businesses. And travel businesses mean a lot throughout Norway — in large and small municipalities. In this budget, we are also proposing to reduce the tax on working capital, and what is that? Well, it's the machines, the goods in the warehouse, it's the farm building, it's the district hotel. I hope that the Central Party will join with the bourgeois parties in stepping down the tax on working capital. For the answer, as the Labour Party and SV say, it is not in this situation to increase the tax on those who invest their own money in Norwegian jobs. There must be some unfairness in the fact that non-residents who own Norwegian jobs do not pay property taxes, while Norwegians who own Norwegian jobs do. So that's where I hope the Center Party and the government can agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e407	I agree with the President that it was inappropriate language, what came yesterday, I just referred to that language. So I guess the prime minister won't use it anymore. But then I'm going to go back to what was the journey life. What's going on now? When you increase the turnover tax from 6 pst. to 12 pst. from 1 January 2021, it goes directly on the bottom line – here and now. It's very dramatic. When one sees the situation, for example. in all the hotels you see along the Norwegian coast, as you see in Oslo, as you see around the country: they don't have any margins at all. And that's what you're doing right now, in the middle of the crisis -- very unwise. Then one sees ontøe and the aviation, they're struggling violently. At the same time, one increases VAT from 6 pst. until 12 p.m., also cuts the appropriations to purchase new flights. It's going to hit the air transport along the coast. So that's what I think is amazing: why attack the arrangements for Norwegian seafarers now, in the midst of a crisis? We are a maritime nation, and then we have used some arrangements to ensure that we also have Norwegian employees on Norwegian ships. We have had a net pay system that has worked well and has ensured Norwegian employment. Unemployment is high, and the measures taken by the government there are a targeted attack on employment on Norwegian ships. So I'm going to end with a discussion about property taxes, because this government is doing a tax treatment that is very unwise. You remove the initial writings for Norwegian companies. We set up an arrangement in the spring where one would get better start-up write-offs, just to make it more profitable to invest in Norwegian industry, in Norwegian business around the country. It's a targeted and good arrangement, as the government now cuts, that will create activity, that will create jobs, that the government removes. And then the council has to answer why it has to be cut 300 million. kr to the most vulnerable, multi-disabled and others, in Norwegian municipalities, to which the government is now adding.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e422	It was very nice in Jan Tore Sanner's talk about inclusion and sharing, but there is one thing I wonder: When does the Right think that the inequality in Norway becomes too big? Is there such a limit at all? We already know that the inequality in Norway is in line with that in the United Kingdom and the United States, if we look at wealth. Do we? Is that what the government wants? Do we want a society like they have there? A high degree of inequality weakens trust and community. There are now 362 billionaires in Norway, and there are increasing numbers, while bus drivers strike for a living and have time to go on do during a working day. And next year, most people can get less to walk with. Nevertheless, the Right does everything they can to further reinforce differences in Norway. The government's going to add up to $2.6 billion. In Norway’s richest — again — the 100 000 unemployed are less likely to live off. This is a policy for the few at the top and not for the many. Over eight years we've been cut short, retired, sick and poor. The government has taken aid from sick children – the spectacle support and dental regulation. They have taken physiotherapy from serious injuries, and they have taken redundancy benefits from the sick and child supplement for disabled dependants. And while the government is careful that the richest ones will soon barely pay taxes in Norway, these cuts will remain standing. The government is showing greater concern for the billionaires of the country than for the unemployed and those who are ill. The country is in crisis now. Workers are in crisis, the climate is in crisis. We need a plan, and we need action to get out of that crisis. Nevertheless, the new climate gaps in this budget show that we are miles away from achieving the 2030 climate target; in fact, we are reaching it in 2050. Nevertheless, the big contaminants, the oil companies, go free – even so free that they get huge tax cuts, while we risk missing a huge industrial bet within the sea wind, because the government won't bet on it. The Community must collect the bill for these increased greenhouse gas emissions. Everything's going to be fine, says Jan Tore Sanner, but good for who? This budget does not take climate-stripping youth seriously; this budget does not take the unemployed seriously, but this budget takes the billionaires of the country seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e435	Let me start with something positive: we're busy with the same things. We're both busy with the climate, we're busy with jobs, and we're busy with how we can reduce inequality. But the SV and the government parties obviously have a slightly different way of doing it. I want to start with the climate. I then included a plan to show what the climate emissions forecast in 2007 was in 2011. In 2011, the projections for climate emissions were quite high. For every year we've been in government, we see that the estimates of where we want to be in 2030 are going down. It's positive. We're going to enjoy that. That shows that the policy is working. It shows that companies invest in new technologies that reduce climate change emissions. We're both busy with the climate. I believe that our policy works – by charging CO 2 taxes to enable people to make climate-friendly choices, by putting more emphasis on public transport. We have doubled the bet on public transport and rail since 2013. We do it because we're going to improve people's everyday lives, and so we're going to help us achieve the climate goals we've set ourselves. In this budget, we have the largest industrial climate project ever to capture, transport and store CO 2. We'll definitely get back to the inequality discussion, etc. further in the debate. I think the most important thing to reduce inequality is to make sure that people have a job. It is to ensure that children and young people are well educated. It is to ensure that we include more, and that we also have a good integration policy, and that is in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e452	Jan Tore Sanner says the government is concerned that the inequality is going down, but it's just hard to believe that they mean it, when the inequality has gone up dramatically in recent years. It's gone up a long time, but now it's speeding up, and they're doing everything possible in a budget to reinforce that development, when tailored tax cuts are given to the richest of the country. It's going to increase the inequality in Norway. At the same time, we see a trend in tax cuts to pay for your own needs, rather than the welfare state. Through the budget by budget by budget, our well-being is weakened. In this budget, the so-called ABE reform – 13 billion – provides new welfare support. Now we're at kr. There are new cuts to the municipalities, which are already in an extremely demanding situation – 380 million. They will now receive less with this budget. And the welfare systems that come into place for children and young people are being tested for needs, which we have seen is not working with kindergartens. The solution from the right-hand government is that people should get a little bit of money into tax cuts, and then: be so good, buy the welfare services you need yourself, because the welfare state is not strengthened by this budget. So in the climate field, it's like what counts to the seventh and last, if we can cut the emissions enough, if we achieve the climate targets. The fact that emissions are going down would really be missing where we are now, in 2020. We need that for a long time, but the only thing that matters is whether we reach the objectives, whether we reach the objectives of the Paris Agreement. That is what determines whether we are able to prevent the disastrous consequences of climate change. We're happy about carbon capture, but we're five years late. For wind and sea wind there is nothing new in this, and we say no to a great industrial opportunity. In sum, it's just not enough in the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e463	Let me follow up on the last speaker: we're going to follow up on what's in the climate. With this budget we cut emissions, we take care of nature, we put on knowledge, and we create more jobs. We've had emissions cuts in the last four years. We have it this year, and we want it in 2021. With the agreement we have with the EU to cut emissions by 55 pst. By 2030, we're going to achieve that goal and put forward a plan for it. The reduction of emissions and the implementation of offensive climate policies are increasingly linked to the creation of new jobs. That's why it's so important that we now put in place the big project for the capture and storage of CO 2, both with storage in the Northern Lights project and with Norcem. Let's put the 3rd side. kr to continue with the Klemetsrud plant in Oslo. That's how many people have pointed out that we see a great deal of commitment to public transport and rail. There's an increase of 6.5 billion. kr only in the budget for the following year. In the big cities, we strengthen our efforts and improve our collective offer by 1 billion. kr, i.e. Fornebubanen in Oslo, Stadtbanen in Bergen, Bussvejen in Nord-Jären and metrobus in Trondheim. That's 20 pst. increase in urban growth agreements and the reward schemes for the major cities. It's even 300 million. SEK to a support scheme to reduce prices in the major cities. Here, there is a commitment to research and a continuation of the green shipping effort where Norway is at the forefront, and green renewal of business by 1 billion. kr over three years under the green platform. Here we have a hydrogen bet, continues on the circular economy, where we're based on the 100 million. NOK that was granted in ours. And we have a strengthening of Nysnø also this year, which we've had every year in the last few years. We're increasing the turnover requirement for biofuels for the next year to 24,5 pst and by 9 pst. advanced biofuels. It also provides the basis for Norwegian production gradually. We carry out a green tax shift with an increase in the CO 2 tax, but corresponding to a decrease in the tax on income and tax on Norwegian ownership of enterprises. So that this should be a budget that doesn't keep the pressure on climate change coming down, is simply wrong. We are strengthening the work for 2021, and we are going to present a concrete plan on how this will lead to emissions falling each year, in line with the agreements we have concluded, by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e482	It is unlikely that the words 'adapting your budget' are more important than this year. We are in a unique situation, and the most important thing we do in the coming year is about good infectious disease protection and good health care, so that we can take care of the most vulnerable among us. I thought the Minister of Finance said well when he said that the crisis is not over. It also characterises the budget that is now being presented. That budget is a budget that provides a very strong financial policy to stimulate activity across the country, where one comes with both labour market measures, such as when there are 7 000 more action sites, or more study places to ensure that one can increase the competence of those who want to do it through this crisis here, and investment, as in both road and rail projects. That's good, because it means that the activity in our country is kept up, and it's one of the most important things for our country to also have a viable way out of this crisis. When we do that, we have to do it in a way that also makes sure that we take forward investments. In that it also means at home that we have to invest in the very least among us. This is a government budget that is characterized by the fact that the Christian People's Party is part of this government. If not the Christian People's Party was part of the government, history shows us quite clearly that there had not been any large increases in child-rearing. The increase, which has been gradual, and which is now also the case for the one-time benefit, shows that a desire to prioritise the families of children and get close to some of the holes that have been in the way we provide for the smallest of us. It's important, and it's also important in the situation that our country is in. I also think there are good priorities in this budget because we also take care of those who are at the other end of the life cycle. The coronary crisis we've been in has shown how vulnerable elderly people have been more lonely and are one of the easiest to experience when we've been involved in social isolation. Here are the good measures that go right into exactly that, and there is one that adds up to 1,000 more sick places. It's important. Then, of course, what is a crisis in Norway is a disaster in the world. Not all countries have the same capacity as Norway, whether it's about the great trust that exists between people and between citizens and authorities, or that has the vibrant welfare community we have. Then it is also important that we deliver on the percentage of aid, and that Norway, when more and more people are on the move in the world, prepare and accept 3 000 quota refugees, as the budget puts it. It's important, and not least that we're also keeping pace, and that we're going to get a viable way out of this crisis. It is about continuing the green tax shift, about putting up green investments and also about climate work that shows results. Four years of falling greenhouse gas emissions point in the right direction, and it is important that it continues to work. What is a crisis in Norway should not be a major disaster in the world, so this is a good starting point for the negotiations in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e497	I acknowledge that the government has had a demanding task this year in its work on the state budget. We're in a temporary state of emergency because of the corona, while now we have to through a permanent and completely necessary green transformation of society. Nevertheless, I had high expectations of this budget. This is the first budget presented by the government of Erna Solberg without the Progress Party being at the steering wheel of the Ministry of Finance. Here the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left could really show that they want to give Norway a green direction and solve the coronary crisis in a way that also solves the climate and nature crisis. There is a broad desire among the population for better climate policy. It is not true that people are afraid of climate policy and climate action. They hunger for action that works, and to be allowed to contribute themselves. The youth, which the Minister of Finance himself was in, is often concerned with homework and football and maybe rush times, but they are also very concerned about the climate. The generation of teenagers now is more concerned with climate, especially, but also with the environment, than both my generation was when we were teenagers, and the Minister of Finance generation. The environment is the most important thing for the voters, even though we are in the middle of a pandemic. Eight out of ten Nordics say that they themselves are willing to change their daily lives if it can contribute to emissions. From a climate point of view, there are points of light in this budget, of course, but overall, it is sad, because the gap between what we need to do and what is done is far too big. 2 billion. kr for carbon capture and storage – finally, after seven years – is better than nothing. It is also good with more to rail and to urban agreements, or for climate investment, but it is also set by over 10 billion. kr more for motorways, which increase car traffic, in a situation where only 10 pst. of the cars on Norwegian roads is zero emissions. The heavy trends are still going in the wrong direction. The projections in the national budget reveal that today's policy will only cut 21 pst. by greenhouse gases towards 2030, while the government has promised 55 pst. And the government has committed itself to the EU, which has today adopted a target of 60 pst. Cut, cut, Investment in fossil energy is increasing in 2020, while investment in all other industries is falling in the same year. The tax advantages of oil are not affected. Pollution will not be significantly more expensive either. The price of petrol and diesel is kept unchanged. So even though the Progress Party is out of government, the government continues the trend they started in the previous budget, the Advance Party policy, by reducing the rate of petrol to compensate for increased CO 2 tax, so that the pump price should not be increased. So it won't be much cheaper to live environmentally friendly either. On the contrary, a traffic insurance charge is imposed on an electric car which makes it 2 000 kroner more expensive to own an electric car this year. So far, this government has cut emissions so slowly that the pace must be quadrupled towards 2030 in order to reach the Paris Agreement. So the government figures show that they still do not even have the means to achieve half of their own goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e519	I agree with the representative of Bastholm that green conversion is important both as an action to get out of the corona crisis and to achieve the long-term objectives. That is why in the strategy we presented to the Stortinget in June, the green future – green transition – was one of the main objectives. Among other things, we have got in place what we call a green platform, which is going to be 1 billion. kr, which shall contribute to the development of new projects in the field of hydrogen, marine wind and other areas likely to reduce climate emissions. In this budget, we are presenting the largest industrial climate project ever, namely CCS, CO 2 capture and storage, and so we have a doubling of the public transport investment on the railways since 2013. I showed a plan to the representative, Kaski. It may not be so easy for people to watch the TV, but I think Bastholm sees it. It shows that for every year with civil government, emissions have gradually declined, at least in the last four years, and we see projections up to 2030 show that they are now moving in the right direction. I hope that the policy we are pursuing helps to promote climate-friendly choices among the majority of people, because I agree with the representative that it wants people, and that companies invest in new technologies that can bring climate change down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e529	We no longer live in a time when we can be happy that the emissions are going down. They have to go a lot more down. If we look at how much government has managed to cut on average every year since Erna Solberg came into government, it's a little over 1 pst. That is, you have to celebrate that pace in order to reach your goal by 2030, just on that government itself promises that they will. I would like to hear a Minister of Finance who is pleased to be able to reach the goal you have set, because that goal is based on physiological changes in our atmosphere that are not the policy behind and that threaten the future of children and young people today. I want to hear a finance minister who says, "It's good that they go down, but I admit we're pretty close enough, and we need a lot more action." And why aren't those measures already in this budget? I wonder, because it's the Minister of Finance's own national budget that shows that the government doesn't even achieve half the goal you've set yourself. All the measures presented here today, which are bred by the fact that we want to cut emissions, are good, but the numbers speak for themselves, that it only gets us halfway. It's like starting at a marathon and still with the starting number to get to the goal after over 40 kilometers, and then be satisfied after jogging a few kilometers. That's not where we are. We need to look a lot more into what the EU is doing. One third of the EU Corona package is now used for climate action, renewable energy and energy storage. One million new charging points shall be built for an electric car. In France, Air France is no longer allowed to offer flights on routes where trains are a good alternative and in Germany the service stations do not receive corona support if they do not also offer charging stations. In Norway, we have a government that does not dare to impose equivalent environmental requirements on business and which does not dare to pursue a consistent climate and nature policy. That is why emissions do not go down any further. It's not the fine points in the programme and in the state budgets, but it's the points that make the emissions go up, like highways, like you don't want to make it more expensive to fly – despite the fact that both people and business are ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e543	In some countries they say that the daemon gives Christmas gifts to nice children and cools to bad children. In Norway, we have a government that gives tax gifts to the shareholders and cuts to the unemployed. We are still in the worst crisis since the 1930s, but what the government has been delivering today looks more like a demise than a credible budget to get Norway out of that crisis. Nearly 200 000 are unemployed, twice as many as before the crisis. They'll be cut off the day money from New Year's. But for the billionaires most, Erna Solberg and Jan Tore Sanner have been really good curling parents and left them safely through the crisis. Property barons have received billions without a single demand for a payoff or a cut-off in the rent of firms in difficulty, while for those who are hardest hit by the crisis, this government has not been a safe captain. In fact, the draft budget reminds me a little of Preben Lohrengren in the first time – while the alarm is ringing too full, they care most about champagne party. While tens of thousands of unemployed people will be thrown out of the daily allowance scheme in the next few months, shareholders will be cut off from the wealth tax by the government, which in the report they themselves ordered shows that increased taxes on wealth will increase employment. And from 1 June, the government cuts the maximum period of leave from 52 to 26 weeks. This is worse than not to see the forest for just trees – here does not seem true to the unemployed and their families because he is blinded by a few, but in return very large, fortunes. When I call this a removal request, it's because in the election next year, it's not the ones with the most bank notes that decide – with the ballot, we can throw the government. Many are now tired of a policy that discriminates against people based on what they have in the account, or where in the country they live. After the election, Erna Solberg will be unemployed. The government is trying to smooth out the differential policy, but the richest only need to use a fraction of the stock discount they get from the government to pay the increased villa tax. So the whole of the tax bill is going to give them more than ten times the tax cut of over 1 million. kr in income, other than those with low incomes. The government has today delivered an election budget for Right-wing Rich Sponsors. But what Norway needs is a crisis programme that ensures income, work and well-being for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e556	Fortunately, we live in a democracy. That means it's not the party leader in Red who decides who wins the election. That's what most people do. The budget we have presented today is about security – it's about work, it's about welfare. There is nothing new that there is disagreement between the Red Party and the Government Parties in respect of taxes. It's not surprising. When we think it's still right to lower taxes, it's because it's private business and the businesses along our coast that are hit by the corona pandemic. Then it's not the answer to increase the tax burden on businesses, it's the time to give more room for private businesses, so we can get growth and more jobs. We need more jobs in more industries, in more industries all over the country. That's what this budget is about, we can just make sure that even more people can come back to work. There are still too many unemployed people, but after all, there are two out of three who have come back from permitting and to work in the months we have behind us. The measures we are putting forward will help to ensure that even more people have a safe job to do. This is not true when it is presented as a major cut in welfare schemes. With regard to the various day payment arrangements, we go back to the level we were at before the crisis struck. That's because we're going into a situation that looks different than it did in ours. The unemployment rate and the number of lay-offs are falling, and the activity is rising. Next year, we're going to help make even more people have a safe job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e567	First, I fully agree with the Sanner Council that we have a democracy. My plan is to mobilise the majority to help throw the government through a record choice for, among other things. Red in a year. When we look at the measurements, they also indicate that this can happen. What we miss in the budget is at least two things. The first is a powerful policy to get more people into work, that we spend a little more of the enormous economic muscles of the Norwegian state on speeding up new industries, on securing state investment, on maintenance maintenance and ensuring that people actually get jobs to go to. Here it is far too little from the government of what is presented in the budget, we believe. The other thing we miss is seeing the unemployed. It is said that there is not a large cut in the daily allowance scheme, but I know after talking to the trustees, among others. at Raufoss Industripark, what we got through with increases in the daily allowance scheme in the crisis package in March this year, has given several thousand more dollars a month in the daily allowance for outsourced industrial workers. When this is cut from 1 January, which is in the government's proposal, many people will have difficulty getting the ends to meet. This applies not least to people who are licensed from the hotel and restaurant industries, who have a low salary initially. When they get further cut in the daily allowance, because the government rather prioritizes the wealth tax code for the wealthiest, there are very many who work in the hotel and restaurant industry and are licensed as of today, who do not see any lighting in sight right over the New Year, and who will get much less to walk with. It's unfair, it's unsocial, and it's the wrong use of the money. We would rather continue to increase the daily allowance by 2021 and also ensure that those who lost the job in the current year get paid holiday money on the daily allowance, so they have something to pay bills with when July arrives. Then the electricity has to be paid, the rent, the mortgage. They need money for it, and they don't get it with the government's plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e578	Then the President will give the Minister of Finance an opportunity to make a final comment of up to 3 minutes. Now comes the closing comment for the whole debate. [[The representative of the Bears Moxnes is here uncertain whether he will stay standing.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e587	But, President, if the representative of Moxnes wants to stand on the platform next door, he is very welcome to it!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e592	In fact, the President is still running the floor in the Chamber! Please, Councillor Sanner. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e601	Thank you, President! We have months behind us that have been very special. We have never experienced that we have had to shut society down completely. We haven't experienced before that we've been hit by a pandemic. I am pleased that the parties on the Stortinget have been united in this crisis. I would like to thank the Stortinget for the good cooperation we have had to deal with the crisis. It is not that some parties have sat with the whole and full truth about what actions work, but just that we have found collective solutions, I believe has been valuable. Now the political everyday life is a little bit more back. It is also an important step to take, that the political debate is more back to the party political debate on how we can achieve our climate ambitions, how we can secure jobs, and how we can secure our welfare society. It's a step forward and it shows that we're more back to a normal situation. We are still in a crisis, and therefore our budget is marked by measures that will not only help us to get through the crisis safely, but also meet the long-term challenges. That's why we're focusing on good infectious diseases, good health care, but also on how we can help more people get back to work, how we can create more jobs in more industries, in more industries, across the country. Because it's the jobs that also contribute to our well-being. That is why we are aiming for a greener future, for action to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and for people to make climate-friendly choices, and we are counting on competence and inclusion in the next year's budget. I look forward to a good cooperation with Stortinget. Gradually, the parties will present their alternatives and make their policies visible, and then I look forward to negotiations on the budget for 2021. My hope is that today's government parties and the Progress Party will find good solutions for Norway and for people. We've done that for seven years, and I believe that we're going to make it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e616	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the government's draft government budget and on the national budget for 2021 be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-07.ana.ud523e632	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
