ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e88	The President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during this meeting by means of necessary infective measures. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. As the representatives were also made aware today at the entrance to the hall at the start of the meeting, it is not necessary to sit in its own place, but to have a suitable distance – preferably two metres – at each other. The same is true when we come to the debate. You can draw on the list of speakers by raising your hand. So you don't have to draw from your place, as you usually do. To draw a line, use the V-sign. The President will come back to how this is to be done in voting. Furthermore, the President, in this very context, might suggest that some of the representatives follow the debate from their own office, and that we thus avoid sitting together here for too long. Representatives of the Board of Hoksrud, Day Terje Andersen, Lene Westgaard-Halle and Ingjerd Schou, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The formerly temporarily exempted alternate of Oslo, Mats A. Kirkebirkeland, now takes the seat. There is a communication from the Group of the Left that the licence granted to Carl-Erik Grimstad in the period from 18 to 27 March has been withdrawn. – This message is taken into account. From the meeting of the alternate of Akershus, Kjartan Berland, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget from 19 to 23 March under the authority of the representative Bente Stein Mathisen, and from the meeting of the alternate of Oslo, Camilla Strandskog, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget from 19 to 24 March under the leave of the representative Michael Tetzschner – both for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus: Tonje Anderson Olsen 19-23. March For Oslo: Yassine Arakia 19-24. March
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e151	Tonje Anderson Olsen and Yassine Arakia are present and will take the seat. The representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand shall apply for welfare leave from 19 to 24 March and for parental leave from 25 March to 12 June. Furthermore, there is an application for welfare leave from the following representatives: by Mr Kari Kjønaas Kjos, 19-22. March by the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen 19-29. March by Mr André Johnsen, 19–25. March by Mr Else-May Norderhus, on 23 March and until further notice from the representative of Tore Hagebakken on 19 March until further notice by Mr Siv Jensen, 19-25. March by Mr Jan Bøhler, on 19 March and until further notice, by Mr Petter Eide on 19 March and until further notice by Mr Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, 19-24. March by Mr Arild Grande 19-21. March by Mr Svein Roald Hansen, on 19 March and until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oppland, Stine Renate Håheim, and from the first alternate of Oslo, Olivia Corso Salles, there is an application for exemption from meeting under the representatives Tore Hagebakken and Petter Eide's leave of absence, respectively, for welfare reasons. From the first alternate of Oslo, Mazyar Keshvari, there is an application for exemption from meeting under the representative Siv Jensen's leave, due to illness, and from other alternate of Oslo, Carl I. Hagen, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus: Knut Tønnes Steenersen For Hedmark: Tone Merete Sønderud and Johan Aas For More and Romesdal: Tove-Lise Torve For Uppland: Aud Hove and Hilde Kristin Holtesmo For Oslo: Geir Hågen Karlsen, Zaineb Al-Samarai, Solveig Skagvoll Foss and Gulsum Koc For Nord-Trøndelag: Jorid Juliusus Nordmelan For Østfold: Siv Henriette Jacobsen
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e308	Knut Tønnes Steenersen, Tone Merete Sønsterud, Johan Aas, Aud Hove, Hilde Kristin Holtesmo, Geir Hågen Karlsen, Zaineb Al-Samarai, Solveig Skagvoll Foss, Gulsum Koc, Jorid Juliusus Nordmelan and Siv Henriette Jacobsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e319	The President has realized that there is a desire to wind up this big meeting quite quickly. For the sake of quality assurance of proposals, the President will nevertheless take a break and reschedule the meeting at 5 p.m. 14 for the conclusion of the debate in Case No. 12 and 13 and voting. The Presidency has today set out the preliminary meeting programme for the Storting for the rest of this week and at the beginning of the next week. There will be a meeting in Stortinget tomorrow, Friday, at 4 p.m. 12 noon and Saturday 12:00. The meeting tomorrow, Friday, will be short, with the transmission of propositions as well as the record. The preliminary meeting is scheduled for the next week at 10 a.m. on Tuesday 24 March. There will be a vote on cases No. 1–9 initially, and the President asks the representatives to be present for a few more minutes. Case No. 1 to 9 is treated as a whole. The cases relate to the second processing of legal acts and to the legislative decisions 46–54.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e425	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e433	We then go to voting in case No. 1-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e442	Case No. 1–9 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts 46 to 54. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e464	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e471	In this proposition, the government proposes changes to the foreign law to make it clear that the rules on the control of travellers, etc. also includes Norwegian citizens. The background to the case is that, in Document 7:2 for 2019-2020, the Information, Surveillance and Security Service Control Committee of the Stortinge, known as the EOS Selection, issued a special message from the Swedish Government’s Information, Surveillance and Security Service Control Committee on the illegal collection and storage of air passenger information by the PST, criticised the PST for the use of foreign law and provided in the Foreign Regulation on passenger lists to obtain information on travel abroad for Norwegian citizens. [[EOS Selection]] The selection concludes that the collection of passenger information on travel abroad for Norwegian citizens is not covered by foreign law. The issue we are going to discuss and adopt today is, therefore, about setting up a necessary place in the law on foreign affairs so that the necessary information can be obtained for Norwegian citizens. In the revised legal text, the term ‘travelers’ is used instead of ‘foreigners’, so that the need for information on Norwegian citizens is maintained. The coverage of ‘travelers’ is used in several places under foreign law, including: Section 6 provides for «control of travellers coming from or travelling to Svalbard». Since the cover "travelers" is used in several forms, it is suggested that this clarification is also entered into them in order to avoid any doubt as to how the laws should be understood. There is a single committee behind this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e486	I am pleased that a unanimous committee has joined the proposals for amendments promoted in the proposal. The amendments are a clarification of the applicable law and do not involve material changes. It is important that the sources of information collection are clear. There shall be no doubt that the PST is authorised to obtain passenger information as part of its work. The proposals have a background to the EOS Committee's specific notification on the acquisition and processing of flight passenger data by PST. The sample has criticised several aspects of PST’s collection and processing of passenger information. I can emphasize that I take, of course, the criticism the selection has made, seriously. The EOS Committee has argued that the collection of data on travel abroad by Norwegian citizens is not covered by the Foreign Affairs Act. However, the Foreign Affairs Act regulates not only matters relating to foreigners but also border controls. The provisions on border controls apply to both Norwegian citizens and non-residents. The provisions on the collection of passenger lists are part of this control and thus include both Norwegian and non-residents. The criticism of the EOS Committee has shown that the legislation should be clearer at this point. The Ministry has therefore made proposals for amendments which make it clear that the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act on travellers also include Norwegian citizens. In the light of the criticism, this should have been clarified earlier. The EOS Committee has also criticised the fact that the PST has acquired passenger lists routinely. Therefore, the proposition also mentions access to routine procurement. It may be considered necessary, in the circumstances, to obtain routine passenger lists for all flights to and from specified areas or countries, e.g.: where it is based on concrete threat assessments related to precisely these areas. So it's not a requirement for the PST or the police to request passenger lists for each flight. I am pleased that the Stortinget is dealing with the present proposal today, and I look forward to the debate on the separate report of the EOS Committee, which will be discussed at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e497	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e514	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the divided speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e521	I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation and willingness to deal with the proposition in record time. The government has in Prop. 44 S for 2019-2020 submitted proposals for decisions on two issues: one on the tariff and discount system for the project, etc. 13 Ryfast in Rogaland and another on toll collection in phase 1 of the transport package for the Kristiansand region. In the first, the Ministry of Transport is asking for authorisation to lay down detailed rules on the tariff and discount system for RVs. 13 The Ryfylke connection, Ryfast, in line with the terms of this proposition. The proposal contains changes in tariffs in relation to the previously adopted Grand total – Prop. 109 S for 2011-2012 and Innst. 363 S for 2011-2012. The reason for the change is that the assumption that the project would replace two publicly funded ferry services is no longer present. The Lauvik-Oanes section will be driven further in private direction. In order to reduce leakage from Ryfast to the ferry link, Stavanger Municipality and Rogaland County have taken the initiative to significantly lower fares by opening Ryfast. This has been met by the Ministry of Transport and asks for authorisation to lay down detailed rules on the system of fares and discounts for RVs. 13th@item: inlistbox This case reminds us that the corona virus also has consequences for the transport sector. It has been working to open the project on 30 March. As a result of the current situation, it will not be possible. The State Road Service must suspend the safety approval of the Hundwag Tunnel due to reduced capacity. This means that the project cannot be opened as intended. Consequently, the start of the toll payment will also be delayed. As a measure of getting infected by the virus, I have replaced the train with an electric car in the last week. When I see how few cars I meet on my way from Vestby to Oslo, I get a little worried on behalf of the toll companies in general. In this particular case, we have to take into account that the low-tariff test project in the Ryfast connection will not give a representative picture of the effects of the tariff reduction if the situation of the coronavirus continues. In Part 2 of the case, the Government promotes proposals to extend toll collection in Phase 1 of the transport package for the Kristiansand region until the end of 2020. Local agreement to this effect is assumed by decision. The reason is that it would not be appropriate to stop toll collection in Kristiansand for a few months now, and then start the collection again. The funds that will be collected will be used to finance phase 2 of the package that the Ministry intends to present in the summer of 2020. The whole committee is behind Part 1 of the vote, while the Progress Party has reserved in Part 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e538	I don't think there's any doubt about what the Progress Party and I mean about tolls. Therefore, I would like to briefly explain the point of view of the Advance Party, which has also been explained in the vote. We're glad you're getting reduced tolls. When you want to remove them, you're happy to actually reduce them. As regards Part 2, the Kristiansands region Phase 1, we believe that toll collection should not be continued when there is no project. We believe that you have to stop, and therefore you are going to vote against Part 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e545	I want to start by thanking the committee. There are not so many weeks since the matter came to Stortinget, so today it is processed. It has happened in a very short time, and I would like to thank you very much for that. I am also pleased that there are clear pluralities: full unity in the first part of the case and all, apart from the Progress Party, in the second part of the case. The development of Ryfast includes, inter alia: construction of two-course underwater tunnels: the Hundwag Tunnel, between Stavanger and Hundvåg, at 5.7 kilometres, and the Ryfylke Tunnel, formerly the Solbakk Tunnel, between Hundvåg and Solbakk in the municipality of Strand, at 14.3 kilometres. The Ryfast Toll Requirement is intended to start when the entire project is opened for traffic. And as the case-speaker did well for here, it's not happening now because of the situation attached to the corona. Once we have control of the project and have completed the security work, it will. The proposal presented on the Ryfast project in this proposition comes on the basis of an initiative from Stavanger Municipality and Rogaland County. The proposal will lead to a lower tariff level than recommended by the State Road Service in line with established practice at the start of the collection process. It also deviates from what the Size has created for the project in the past. The Government therefore considers that the proposal would provide for a specific derogation from the ordinary guidelines for the setting of tariffs for tariff and discount systems. As we can see from the proposition, there is a risk associated with this, which in the first place must be seen in the light of the fact that one does not know how the traffic will develop for the project. In concrete terms, the government suggests that an average tariff of NOK 112 in the Ryfylke tunnel and NOK 21 in the Hundwag tunnel will be seen at the start of the toll collection. The government assumes that the average tariff may be increased to DKK 252 for the Ryfylke tunnel and NOK 32 for the Hundwag tunnel without resubmitting the matter to the Stortinget. If there is a need to increase the rates further, the Storting will have the matter brought before you again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e560	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox The majority will take a short break until the Financial Committee can start its debate on matters. 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e577	Then we start the big meeting again after the break. At the request of the Financial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 12 and 13 will be treated together. Since it is not stated in the agenda, the President will draw attention to the fact that in case No. 13 includes changes to the Social Services Act. These matters have not been beyond the regulatory time laid down in Section 46 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the cases will now be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e609	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the divided speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e616	I would like to thank all the parties for their cooperation through what has been a rather unusual time and quite unusual days. Our country is in an extreme and demanding situation, and then it also calls on us to do what we can to stick together on the things that we can stand together for. I feel that in the work the committee has had, we have managed to gather on just the most important things. Last night, on the road home, I experienced a man standing in the middle of the situation right now, a taxi driver who told me that he had been afraid to work the last few days. He was afraid to get infected and afraid to get sick. Now he had reached the point that if he did not go back to work, he did not have income to pay the rent say. Then he started running the taxi again, even if he was afraid. Unfortunately, the story he tells me, I think there are quite a number of people who have known about – the turbulence and fear of what the everyday life is like, for health, for the family, for the income. The working party would like to be able to secure it. I would like to draw three things out of the work we've done in the last few days. The only thing is that there is now a cross-political consensus that the first line to deal with this crisis – in health services, in municipalities, in Nav – must get the means they need. They're facing an extreme situation, and then they don't have to be on the money. Everything they do to save life and health and prevent infection is so important to our society that they need to know that they have us all in their backs. Children who go home to a home that is not safe shall know the same thing: that the community stands up for them. When our country now experiences that kindergartens, schools and SFOs are connected, and that children are quarantined for longer periods, it is also a responsibility for the community to follow up those children, make sure that there are adult people present who seek out them and ensure their everyday life and security – whether through child protection, through crisis centres, through schools or through the established institutions we have. But this must also be done by the government through its means. The second thing I want to do is I'm going to use a lot more forcefully to scare the companies and industries that feel like they're on the verge of bankruptcy. We are concerned with instruments such as loan arrangements and guarantee schemes. We understand that the government will bring more tomorrow, and we also look forward to dealing with this. The most important and powerful tool for industry and enterprises is the reduction of the employer’s fee over the next two months. It accounts for billions of dollars and has a significant impact on the economy of businesses. The reduction of employer fees for a short period of time is very effective, and it is an important response to the companies that are currently striving to pay their bills. They are important to our country, and the fact that they have added is also so important that we will use that tool aimed at those companies that also contribute to them having a job to go to in the future. The third and last thing I want to draw out is an area where the Labour Party wanted to go a little bit further, and it's about setting limits on the exchange of those companies that are today going to take on more powerful tools, loans and state guarantees, i.e., large amounts of community money. It is important for us that when the money in the community is used to scare the company, they should not go for personal gain, they should make the company survive. The fact that it's an extraordinary time doesn't mean that one should have extraordinary exchange, and we can't have a system where an end to a deficit is something the community asks for, while excesses only go in private pockets. We cannot socialize loss and privatize gain. Then a trust in the system weakens. With these opening remarks, I thank you again for the good cooperation, and I hope that we will continue along the way – even when the next propositions are to be addressed, we can have reliable cooperation between the parties. I think that's exactly that, how a crisis is handled in the initial phase, also defines how we get through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e635	I guess no one is in any doubt about the challenging situation that is facing us now, that is meeting us day by day. I have to say that in the work on the various measures, I find it most demanding that what we were sure was quite right yesterday, perhaps needs a different frame-up today. This is moving all the time, and in the eagerness to do what we can to help individuals, businesses and not least the public sector in their work, it is demanding to do the right things at the right time. It has been demanding in these negotiations as well. But I think we have worked well together, and we have achieved a good result when the parties have negotiated what is in the settings today. We have clarified the arrangements for traders, specified what should apply, and what should not apply to them in order to obtain the measures proposed. When we're dealing with these measures, there may also be things that go wrong. On Monday, it was decided that apprentices who lost their apprenticeship place had to get help. But there are also apprentices who are on leave, who might have to go back to the apprenticeship place. We've now done them with the changes we're making in the setting. There's a lot of such clarifications that are the demanding things to take at the right time, but they're in place. Then we are glad that it is announced by the government that a package will come to the cultural field. There are many associations, teams and small businesses that are not capitalist, and that almost gamble to arrange things for the benefit of all of us. Suddenly, the entire income base falls away because there is a presence of people who are the basis. Once the government has outlined 300 million. SEK to culture and 600 million. kr for sport and volunteering, it will be a good package to start work for these groups. I said that it is demanding to take the different measures. I got an enquiry from a good friend who is silversmith. On the 10th or 11th of this month he received a cancellation of NOK 700000 from a major travel agent. It wasn't a closed door, it wasn't a stop for all time, but it's an income base that we have to capture, and we have to help these small, very important businesses out in the districts through. That is why we are pleased that the Minister of Finance has already said that there will be more action tomorrow, and it is announced that there will be more action next week as well. We are in a time of a series of measures, and then we have to make sure that we deal with the review of them and the conditions around them at the right time. The most important thing we have done in this round is, of course, that we are now lowering the employer's fee by 4 percentage points, which amounts to 10 billion. kr. So those who keep people working, those who keep the wheels going, who make sure the companies can move on, get help to do that. So it's important that it comes together, in addition to permissive help, and that we have also spent a sum of money to hit Nord-Troms and Finnmark, who do not have the employer's fee. It's important. So I just have to make it clear that we from the Right are by no means willing to see a dividend party, but we are not ready to make any concrete decisions about it today. There are many demanding statements, and we also have to remember that there are people who depend on dividends to meet their obligations to keep businesses going. It's a tough thing to say about dividends, but there's plenty of opportunity for it in the context of the new packages and the new measures that come from the government. Then we get back to the terms of dividends.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e650	I want to start by thanking you for good cooperation once again. We did not manage to get completely into the goal where everyone stood together about everything, but it was not far from this time either. I want to start by saying that I am very happy that all those who are out there now and working and on to deal with this situation can be sure that there is no money to be put on. This applies to both those in hospitals, and those who work in Nav and now face the biggest challenge Nav has ever faced, with tens of thousands of applications for daily allowances only in the last few days. We're aware that the situation they're in is very demanding. This also applies to municipalities, which are supposed to keep the wheels running, with their health services, with important services for many people who are dependent on public assistance. We've already made sure to improve the security of income for many of those who are outsourced. It makes a lot of sense to me when I talk to people who are now in a situation they may have thought they would never get in, where they are now afraid to get out, afraid to lose what they thought was a safe job, and fear that they will be able to pay for the obligations they have in the future. The fact that we are now securing both apprentices and students is an important signal to send out. Then it's the businesses. I have to say that it makes a strong impression on me to hear many of the stories that are out there now: those who run old, family-run hotels that are run through generations, who have been on ups and downs, but who in this crisis are now approaching the edge of the stump – or those who own small shops, and who now see customers disappear, sales disappear, money goes missing. You're afraid of what the future will bring. Then Stortinget has only one job to do, and that's to do what we can to save the most possible jobs that are in this situation. I am very pleased that we have reached an agreement to reduce the employer’s fee by 4 percentage points. That means a lot. That means a relief for the companies of 10 billion. kr in two months. I am very happy that we also think about our northern part of the country, Nord-Troms and Finnmark, where you do not have this employer's fee, and that we get 250 million in place. kr, where compensation is to be made. I look forward to the government coming back with a proposal on how it can be set up. There are many who depend on ferries in this country. We know that there's a huge cost for a lot of companies and too many individuals. That is why I am also pleased that the government will come back with a proposal to ensure reduced tariffs for those who are dependent on national roads. I have to add that I hope that the government can come back quite quickly with that proposal. The Progress Party is concerned that we should get ready to get into a situation where we have to decide whether to keep very important businesses in Norwegian hands. If this persists over time and the capital situation in the enterprises worsens, one may have to face the situation of having to take a decision on it. The party of progress is no swearing because the state has to own more in business, we've always been opponents of it, but this is an extraordinary situation, and therefore we're willing already to say that if this crisis gets so serious, we're prepared to join in taking that kind of grip. But then the goal is for the state to sell out as soon as the situation is normalized. There's a lot of talk about dividends. We are critical to making rules that can create obstacles and difficulties for companies that are dependent on taking dividends for example. moving money to a company and contributing to capital there, or because one has to pay taxes and pay for other liabilities, but we fully agree with all those who oppose the fact that this is going to enrich business owners. And I don't think anyone's in such a position right now. I record that the Kværner manager has been out and said that he will go down 10 pst. In pay, there's nothing going on, and I think we'll see a lot like that in the time that's coming, because there's not money in the companies now to distribute, but to keep – to try to save those who can be saved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e671	Together as a nation, we are strong, and now it is time to lift together and lift all of Norway. When the crisis strikes us, you can really see who constitutes the core wall of society – the health worker who works, the driver who makes sure that supplies come to the shops, those who work in slaughterhouses and dairies and make sure that there are food, those who produce the food, the police, the cleaners who make sure that it is clean and proper around us, those who work in child protection and others who have important social-critical functions, and not least those who work in Nav, who are going to make sure that many people now have income security, and that businesses can also be helped through the weeks and months we are in. I think it is very gratifying that we at Stortinget once again agree on the main pole points. We're doing a lot of powerful moves here today. The purchase price for the employer's fee is about 10 billion. kr – very expensive, but a direct help to companies with employees who now wonder if they can get the wheels around or if they can't do it. When you take away costs of about 10 billion. Of course, it is a powerful contribution to the economy of businesses. We're going to be a big deal for all of Norway, so it's important that we, all of the parties, go together to give 250 million. kr to Nord-Troms and Finnmark, so that they also get part of the effort as this is. To the discussion about our short-range network: the majority of people present are, until now, without the support of the government parties. I hope that the government parties in the vote will also agree with us, because I think the government parties also see that it is important when they think that we are securing a short-range network in the future. That is why it is important that we now have a majority who are quite clear that the loss of income on the FOT routes should be compensated. But I feel that the basic attitude is the same in all parties, that you see it is a goal, and that the infrastructure should also be there when this crisis is over. It's a powerful grip. We've done several important things. We are now giving income insurance to our municipalities. We give security of income to the hospitals. We give a guarantee to those who work in Nav, that we can finance it. We see that Norway is more than just the mainland. We see that Svalbard is an important part of the national community, and we say that there we are going to come back again, so that they also get a safe and more stable development. The government has failed to reorganize the tax rate now, because it is now more important than reorganization to actually do the job; to put the reorganization process on ice. It's wise – you're practical, you see how you can actually solve problems, and you don't let it go. Then there is an important point where there is different grading of the wish for instruments: I think everyone sees that it is important to ensure national ownership of the enterprises, but the majority of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Advance Party want the State to pay particular attention to putting the ownership department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in a position to act quickly if important national companies are involved. We know that such things can happen tremendously quickly. That's why it was important that we not only have comments, but also get a clear decision on an order that the government has to follow up, and that the Ministry of Industry be prepared to act if necessary. Finally, we have now worked 24-hourly here at Stortinget. You feel the responsibility, you feel the mole mood that's here. But you also feel the privilege of being elected to Norway, where we can doubt and believe across party boundaries. It is a great strength for our people's government and our country that we can also doubt and believe against government governments, even if we are opposition parties, and that we don't put traps where it's about putting legs on each other. This last week has really shown the strength of our community. That is the strength that we must show in the weeks to come. When a new proposition comes from the government tomorrow, I hope we take with us the spirit that together we are strong. Each of us is weak, but the community we have here, and the community we have in Norway, is a strong community where we build each other, and then we're going to be able to get through this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e690	I also want to start by thanking the first Vice-Chairman of the committee, Hadia Tajik, for letting us through this, while the committee chairman has been on the phone at different times. It has been an extreme situation to work with these propositions, but it has been incredibly meaningful and important to get into port with it. In the agreement – and in the agreement – that we are discussing today, and in the proposals that we are adopting, we state the muscles of the state that are being used to ensure that the burdens of this virtue that we are all facing now must be fairly distributed. We know – and we see more and more examples of this – that the coronary apathy affects and strikes unsocially in the Norwegian community, both the disease itself and the consequences of it and the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. It is therefore essential that the size of the decisions we now take, both today and in the future, in future crisis packages and measures, ensure that everyone now has a safe income and has a guarantee at the bottom. Students who have worked part-time, apprentices who lose their apprenticeship place, those who are conscripts and experience that they are no longer called to a job, must have a floor plank and a safe income, and there we have come very far today. In addition, we also know that there are now municipalities, health care agencies, Nav standing in the first line to deal with the pandemic that we're facing. We need to be sure that they are not now uncertain as to whether they will recover their costs and not be uncertain as to how they will manage the lost income and the increased costs even months in advance. That is why I am extremely pleased that we are today deciding – and that everyone stands united – that the municipalities and hospitals and Nav, among other things, must be guaranteed the means to meet this crisis, and that it is a guarantee that the tax failure experienced by the municipalities should be compensated. In business there is also a crisis, and through these negotiations we have been given new figures every day on how many have signed up as unemployed and how many have been permitted. It has added pressure to the Financial Committee to present even more measures aimed at business, such as: reduction in the employer’s fee. It's an enormously powerful grip, huge sums that the Storting is going to adopt today, to give dragon help to our business. However, we also make concrete comments on the importance of the use of muscle by the state to ensure important businesses in Norway, and we today decide that the state should be able to buy up to prevent the closure of key companies and infrastructure in Norway. In the middle of all this, we should not forget our kids, the kids who are now at home and perhaps not in homes that are safe and good for them to be in, and who no longer have the opportunity to be in school and kindergarten, where they are seen. The fact that we are today deciding that the state should help municipalities to follow up these kids by keeping child protection going, the crisis centres open and the relief homes open is incredibly important for these kids. Finally, there are some areas of what we are adopting today, which have received less attention, but which are important for them. We both agree that social assistance should now be used as a means of securing income for those who fall between two chairs and that it should be unbureaucratic by allowing municipalities to ignore demands for savings. We make decisions on housing support, which means that people should not lose it or get it curtailed as a result of other changes being made, and we also make important clarifications and adjustments on care money, which we also adopted earlier this week. In sum, I think it's become a more social package. There will be a need for further action, but we need to get back to that. This also applies to cultural life, which unfortunately has not received sufficient compensation this time, neither when it comes to all events, the whole value chain or the whole period of time. But I look forward to coming back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e707	I would also like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee: for me as a new member of the Committee and just out of the quarantine, it has been a positive experience. I would also like to thank the government for being so close to the negotiations we have here, because we are in a crisis situation where we are measured together – both magnification and government – on how we deal with this crisis in the future. Then we have to look at the context of both the initiatives of the government that have taken place earlier and those that come later, as well as the negotiations and decisions that we are making on the Storting. It was a big and important decision we made on Monday, and we are doing the same today. We're part of an international crisis, which is global to a large extent. At the moment, perhaps Europe is being tested the hardest. It's our entire democratic system being tested, so that we now act in such a way that we show that our people's government, with the systems we have, is able to deal with a crisis, a pandemic, at this level, with a brake and a clog in our economy as we now see, is important for Norway, but it's also an important signal out in the world. Our main task is to take care of those directly affected by the instrument to limit the pandemic we're facing. We should like to thank all those who are making an effort in health now. This concerns municipalities and counties, where this will develop over time. There are a lot of initiatives we have to deal with municipalities and counties, especially with what is perhaps the most tested area, the whole Nav system, which we are so dependent on, and which in this case is added 200 million. NOK extra, so that they can do their work. We should remember that the critical parts of our social system are also exposed, because they have both sick and many who are in quarantine, so it's an extremely difficult situation they're in. We also need to take care of those who are now on leave, who lose their job, who lose their income. Much was done on Monday, including for freelancers and small and medium-sized enterprises. Now we close some of the holes that were left, especially for students, who depend on part-time positions, and we now ask the government to come back with a solution for within the Loan Fund. Furthermore, we need to be more specific to apprentices, so that we also meet those who are outlawed, and not just those who lose their apprenticeship space. I would also like to highlight those who require further follow-up from the government – not those who are required to shut down, such as hairdressers and others – but those who are still in work, but who almost have no income – taxi drivers are perhaps the most nearby ones to mention. Also there we have to find practical solutions, we have to be able to follow up. It is also in this case. Then, like others, I will also bring up those that are particularly vulnerable. When schools and kindergartens are closed, we have vulnerable children who are suddenly in a difficult situation at home, and there are others who are in a situation for which we need a support device. We have written that it is essential that child protection and crisis centres should be maintained with proper operation also in this situation, and that we be able to follow it up more closely in the future. Large-scale measures are important to business, for example: reducing the employer’s fee by 4 percentage points in the first two months. I would also like to highlight the package of the Ministry of Culture and the Minister of Culture, Abid Q. Raja, at 900 million. kr as a very good start for culture and sport. Now you can cover the loss of tickets, but it is clear that this will have to be followed up significantly in the future. Finally, I would like to highlight the initiative we are taking towards Svalbard, which is in a very special situation, which is difficult, and for which it will require much of the government to find the right measures. 250 million. kr to Nord-Troms and Finnmark – very good. Finally, the government parties also have strong comments on the fact that we are not going to have a dividend bond. We now support the business community to get through what is an extremely difficult situation, and we agree that it should not degenerate. We also have great expectations for the government about new measures in the field of air transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e735	Let me start by saying that I am very happy that we have once again managed to form a broad majority of very many important and necessary measures. This sends an important signal that political Norway is united on major, important stakes in a time of crisis. We see that the number of people infected is increasing daily. The same thing also makes the number of people in quarantine, and unfortunately we also see that the number of people who are dead because of the virus is increasing. In one week, more than 100,000 applications have been made to Nav for daily allowances due to leave. More than 16,000 cases of sick leave are related to the virus, according to Nav’s statistics. Many today are afraid of both being infected, of their economy, and of whether they have a job to do in the future. This is a fear that is very easy to understand. We'll get through this. We have the order of state finances and we have the money to put in. We have high confidence in society and a strong spirit of virtue. We are pleased to see how many people are now looking for opportunities to help others, whether it is buying or taking a phone to people who are lonely and alone, or health professionals who are now waiting to join us. It's amazingly encouraging to see that this is happening in just a time of crisis. We also read in the media about the creative use of technological aids to keep in touch at a time when we have to stick together, even if we have to stay away. This is Norway at its best, and together we shall also get through this crisis. I think the Prime Minister said it well in the speech she gave last night: this is not the time for ‘I’ – this is the time for ‘we’. When the whole community stops, it has great consequences for many. We'll get back to normal, but it'll take time. In this period, it is important that we do what we can to reduce the consequences, both for individuals and for society. That is why we are closely following the situation. Although we have to act quickly, it is important that the decisions we take are best quality assured and properly structured. It is also important that we do not introduce schemes that are so difficult to manage that it sets out, for example. important stations such as Nav incapacitated to deliver on the order. Therefore, we believe it is important for the government to do that job and to take orders and not least secure funds for the service rather than pin detailed arrangements directly into the Stortinget. We welcome the fact that the government will return to Stortinget with the answer to these orders as soon as practicable. It is important to remember that those most vulnerable in society often get even worse in a crisis situation. Many families with children live in straits and conditions are not arranged for a useful everyday life and not least for home education. Children and young people who already live in unsafe homes may experience a worsening of their everyday lives when they are isolated at home. We hear from several municipalities that relief homes are being closed down, or that one has to reduce the offer, that the offer of serious mental illness and drug addicts is being reduced, and that the crisis centre offer is at risk of closure or a strong reduction. In the time we are now in, it is more important than ever that the statutory rights and obligations in relation to these offers are maintained as far as possible. I would like to stress the importance of ensuring that services to children in vulnerable positions, such as children with nursery facilities as measures in the field of child protection, are also ensured under the pandemic. I would also like to stress the importance of securing and strengthening helplines, BUFs, crisis centres and other relief measures, and the implementation of public information on these offers. I am pleased with the consensus in this area as well. Many students cannot work as a result of the situation, many of which fall outside the scope of the permitting legislation. In order to remedy this situation urgently, it is necessary to use the Loan Fund. That is why I am pleased that today we are asking the government to come up with a temporary arrangement through the Loan Fund for students who experience income loss as a result of the coronary epidemic. Also, apprentices are vulnerable and also need help in these times, both those who are outsourcing, and those who lose their apprenticeship space. We also see that the business situation is deteriorating from day to day. This is serious for our economy. That is why I am pleased that we have made a temporary arrangement with a reduction in the employer's fee and with special measures for Nord-Troms and Finnmark. We have many things that we agree on today, and then there are some things that we disagree on, but with the attitude and the attitude we have now, I think we're going to join in and contribute to getting the country right in a time of crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e754	This is the second round of crisis measures we are dealing with here in Stortinget. There are many good measures here, and that's good. We in the MDG have been committed to ensuring a fair crisis package for the most vulnerable in Norway, for the low-paid, for those who lose their jobs, for freelancers, apprentices, students, cultural workers and the breadth of small businesses and self-employed. In particular, I would like to highlight three individual issues in which we believe that the measures to date have not gone far. First, one of the sectors most affected is the cultural and event industries. There are several reasons why this group needs a separate compensation scheme. It's an industry that is particularly hard and long-lasting, because their very concept is to gather many people in one place. It is an industry that has in practice been banned by industry, and it is an industry where the margins are very small. We are pleased that yesterday the government delivered such a package we have worked for. However, we believe that the cost estimate provided by the government is too low in relation to the real losses incurred. The compensation scheme must cover real losses without a time limit. Another field in which the measures have been too weak to date is the conditions for students who are on leave from their part-time jobs. If you get support from the Loan Fund, you don't have access to cash. That means that many students are now standing without the income hedge that others leave now get. Not all students are 18-19-year-olds who can go home to their parents. Some have children and family, some have nowhere to go. I myself have friends who are now in a very difficult situation, and the Stortinget has no concrete answer yet that gives them predictability in life. We are concerned that students can receive a daily allowance even if they also receive support from the Loan Fund. The third single issue for which the Greens are now working is a proposal for exemption from VAT which will contribute to further tax relief for the cultural sector. At the same time, we are pleased that the committee is taking good care of several areas today. The proposal for a reduced employer’s fee is offensive and good. Clearer signals of financial support to the municipalities are positive. An important discussion in the last few days has been about bonuses and dividends from banks and companies. The absence of excessive private gains is crucial for social solidarity and the spirit of hard work in this crisis. The economic space we now have must be used to save jobs and those who have to leave home. Here we believe it is necessary that the Stortinget make very clear decisions. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about the aviation industry. We in the Greens are concerned that the Storting should not fall for the temptation to provide rescue packages to individual companies. There are many industries and companies that are now in a difficult situation, and there's no reason for us to throw billions after a business model based on cheap shopping trips to New York. At the same time, basic infrastructure and the short-haul network must be maintained. It is especially important now that we have to be able to carry critical personnel and sick people. We therefore support several urgent measures to help the aviation industry in the current crisis, such as: the proposal to suspend airport charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e775	The country is in a serious situation where it is important to take the necessary measures and that all contribute. Not least it should apply here on the house. Everyone here wants broad consensus. It was said at the press conference at the latest just before we went to the debate in the Chamber that it is important that we stand as united as we are now. Let me be clear: that collection could have been wider had it been chosen to include Red and MDG in the negotiations, the real negotiations, on part 2 of the crisis package. Our experience is that part 1 of the package was improved by the fact that all parties were involved in the actual negotiations on Sunday. Red captures recordings from hit groups that other parties haven't done to the same extent, like the apprentices that we got, and the totally unemployed. It is a pity and aggravating and unfortunate thing for those affected by the crisis that not all parties can contribute in the same way. It is very good in what the majority will adopt today, and much as a result of the agreement we entered into on Monday, as necessary resources for municipalities, health services and hubs, but there are also important shortcomings. At the end of Monday's negotiations, the question was that the unemployed too would receive an increase in the daily allowance, and we were given clear promises that it would be clarified in the Stortingen decision on Thursday, which is today. It hasn't happened. We want the daily allowance to be increased for all the unemployed – as we stand alone – in order to ensure an equal level of coverage for all those receiving the daily allowance, whether they are on leave or unemployed as a result of bankruptcies or redundancies. Had Red been involved around the table, we would of course fight for this group to be maintained in today's setting. It's important, because regardless of whether you're on leave or you've been fired, you end up on the same daily allowance, you have the same costs and live in the same crisis as everyone else. Unfortunately, we now get an a and b team of people on daily pay, so I hope that the Stortinget still supports Red's proposal in voting, even though it was not a priority in the negotiations, which was last night and last night. We also want to put the foot down for dividends to the banks. So the six largest banks have announced the payout of 18 billion. kr in dividends to its shareholders at the coming general meetings. They have now received an increased capital buffer from the government. Financial supervision warns against increasing payments to shareholders rather than helping those who are currently struggling. Therefore, I hope that the Storting will think about it and give a clear message not to allow billions to be transferred to the banks by not having any guarantee that the money will be taken out for dividends at the same time. The government has also notified social assistance without conditions to self-employed and freelancers. That's what we said this weekend that we can agree to, but it's important to take care of other groups that also fall outside. Therefore, we promote an alternative proposal that includes others without a permanent employer, i.e. callees, temporary staff and lessees who lose a job without being a secured income base also receive the same entitlement. There may be people who haven't worked long enough or had high enough income to be covered by Monday's decision. In addition, the government has introduced withdrawal periods for redundancy payments earlier. Red also suggests that people who have been denied the extension of redundancy benefits without having been cleared up for work or disability benefit must now be entitled to economic social assistance without having to leave the farm or land. It should be a matter of course, and I hope that the parties will take an assessment of that proposal before it goes to final voting, to ensure equal treatment and justice for those who are now hit hard by the crisis we are now in, both the people who are in withdrawal from the AAP, and all the thousands of people who lose the job without a permit, who get fired, where the company goes bankrupt. And those people deserve to get a boost in the day-to-day money, which the Storting luckily will give to those who are on the perm and then end up on the day-to-day money. We don't want an a- and b-layer of people living on day money. They should be given equal treatment, and I have good faith that the Storting will see with a little thought that it is a fair and reasonable claim. I'll bring it up to Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e791	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e796	The whole of Norway is characterised by the serious situation we are now facing. Every day has become different for all of us. Many are uncertain and concerned about health, the family and the economy. The government is also in an unknown situation. We have to make decisions that require difficult balances. Limiting infection is job number one, not just for the government, but for the whole world community. It's good to see how the Norwegian spirit of virtue wakes up to life when we need it the most. Thanks to everyone who contributes. Thanks also to the Stortingen for constructive cooperation on measures that will relieve the financial burden that businesses, self-employed and workers now bear on their shoulders. Because this is bigger than party politics. This is about what kind of society we're going to have that day-to-day life is normal again – about jobs, about a diverse and viable business, and about the very support of our society: trust and well-being. The measures taken to reduce the outbreak are necessary, but they are severely economical. In many branches, the activity has stopped completely, abruptly and brutally. Those who have their income from these industries need security for the economy in the future. That is why I am pleased that we have already reached an agreement across the partitioning lines on a number of targeted measures that will be able to enter into force quickly and work quickly. The loss of income we are now seeing can be somewhat counteracted, but viable businesses must get through this crisis, so that jobs are not lost. The cost to society will be high, and businesses and workers cannot bear the burden alone. The loss must be distributed between the enterprises, the owners of the enterprises, the employees and the community through the public sector. It'll be a spice layer. However, enterprises with little or no income now have to pay fixed costs. The account will be emptied soon. Changes in the rules of leave, deferred tax and reduced employer’s tax for a limited period are being adopted today. The two loan and guarantee schemes announced on Sunday by the government are also important to ensure sufficient liquidity for the companies. The bill on these will be presented to the Stortinget tomorrow. Lower rates of VAT for travel and temporary relief for airlines will help these industries, which are particularly hard hit. This week we've seen dramatic numbers of layoffs and sick messages. Employees who are temporarily released from their jobs or become unemployed lose income. I am pleased that all the parties on the Stortinget have gathered on measures to reduce this loss of income. We have also managed to secure the economy for those who have to be at home and babysitting. For self-employed and freelancers, we have put in place schemes that guarantee them the right to sickness and care benefits and compensation for lost income. Both the health services and the municipalities are being tested in the future, and that's in the first line we see our heroes. Then it is also important that we support and stand up for them. It has therefore been important to put in place increased appropriations for municipalities and measures to strengthen the health sector. Cultural and sporting events have been largely cancelled. The tapes are big. Now we have a compensation scheme in place – and more is coming. We're going to follow up where it's needed. Together, this becomes a powerful package that hopefully will make everyday life easier and the future less uncertain for many. Now is the time to show leadership and responsibility. The inhabitants of the towns and cities are taking part in social services. They've shown us their trust. Now it's up to us, government and greatness, to show us trust worthy. We have to do everything we can to make Norway get through this in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e823	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e828	I want to thank the government for their cooperation over the last few days. So at one point, we're separating layers, and it's about how to ensure that the money given by the state in the form of guarantees or loans does not go to ‘personal enrichment’. The government has then chosen not to participate in setting a limit for exchange, and they have also refused to enter into an agreement with business organisations on how to use a crisis package. I would like to ask how the Minister of Finance has intended to oblige companies that accept crisis loans or guarantees, i.e. to make sure that the money does not go to some sort of private gain, either in the form of an exchange or in the form of an increase in the remuneration for group management.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e835	Let me also start by thanking you for good dialogue and good cooperation in this situation. It is important that what we are now facing and dealing with is greater than party policy. That is why I am pleased that we have already gathered on many measures, and we are going to continue to have good dialogue with the parties on the Stortinget. I also invite you to cooperate on the upcoming propositions and will listen to the recordings that come from Stortinget. Then I have been clear that when the state now sets up favourable arrangements, we also expect moderation. But there is probably a certain party political distinction in this particular matter – when the representative of the Workers' Party uses words like ‘personal enrichment’. I expect those who are now responsible both in banks and in companies to also show moderation and take social responsibility. I don't think it's natural that we go in and regulate this from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e842	Then I assume that the Council of State is expecting moderation. How will that expectation be passed on to those companies that will be able to accept emergency loans or other guarantees?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e847	The fact that the representative asks me that question today is also an important part of this communication that we are all clear that the time we are now in requires an effort from everyone. Those who are in the first line of health care in the municipalities and in Nav are our heroes. Those who keep the wheels on and on need our support, and all the business leaders and owners we also need to show our support. Then we expect everyone to take social responsibility not least that those who receive support and guarantee schemes show moderation and take social responsibility in the time we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e852	I just want to make sure that I understand it perfectly correctly: then that expectation will be conveyed orally; it won't be written is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e857	Tomorrow, we will put forward a proposal that addresses the issues and issues raised by the representative. It would be natural for us to come back to the issues in that proposition and when it's going to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e862	It is a value in Norway that we can stand together and have good cooperation – both within parties, but also across parties and with the government. I would also like to thank the Council of States for being willing to be in good dialogue and to respond to questions in relatively short deadlines. Through the dialogue, we have also identified new, powerful measures – not least in terms of reducing and reducing the employer’s contribution. As it also emerges: for Nord-Troms and Finnmark, where the rates today are zero, other measures need to be found to ensure that compensation is also provided there. The question then is, in what time perspective do you see this? And further dialogue with the Stortinget needs to clarify what kind of action is going on, so that we can get the most effective action possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e870	Let me also thank the representative Gülsvik and the Central Party for their good cooperation. It is important that we now work closely together. Then we'll eventually come back to normal, and then I expect that party politics will also come back. But I think it is important, both for those who are now in the first line, for businesses and for the workers, that we, as politicians, now take leadership responsibility, and that we clearly communicate that we are working together to create security in the demanding situation. The size today, by a large majority, decides to reduce the employer’s contribution by 4 percentage points for a limited period of time, i.e. for two months. Then it's natural that Nord-Troms and Finnmark, which have a zero rate, are also compensated through an order of 250 million. kr. I'm open to input on how this can be done. We haven't finished thinking about how that solution should be, but we have announced that there will be a new proposition on Friday 27 March. It might be a time to land a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e877	On Monday, all parties agreed on an important promise, which will help, in particular, those low-paid people who are now losing their jobs, namely that we increase the coverage of those who are being permitted when they receive a daily allowance. I want you to get 80 pst. of what they've earned, up to 3G, and then the usual rate up to 6G. It will give a lot more money to those who are now losing their job, compared to what was initially there. But then there was a group that was forgotten in Monday's meeting, and it's those who are totally unemployed – who haven't been out of work, but who lose the job now because of bankruptcy, or that they get fired by dismissal, and who don't walk the road through the leave for day money. They get the same daily allowance as they permite. Red suggests that they receive the same promise as the rest of the day’s money. I would like to ask what the Minister of Finance thinks about the non-discrimination of people living on day-to-day pay, in the crisis we are in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e884	I must admit that I have had limited time to get into Red's proposal. The financial committee's attitude was ready half an hour ago, so I've dealt primarily with what is a majority decision. I think we have to assume that in the period that we're in now, there could be some holes in the system. We have to try to see how we can find schemes that make us close them. There will certainly also be some people who point out injustices. We are now trying to see the whole picture in both the proposals made by the government and those adopted by the Stortinget. That's the background for us to also make a proposition on March 27th. It's to see the whole of the proposals. Now a lot is adopted in a very short time. We also have limited capacity in departments and directorates because of the situation we are in, but we are trying to both analyse and make proposals where necessary and appropriate. But let me stress again: all these measures must be temporary and linked to the situation in which we stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e893	It is nice to see that the Minister of Finance is still standing on his feet. I expect that there have been demanding weeks and little sleep, so he just needs to know that we are supporting the back. It's not always I've said that I support the Vice-Chairman in the Right, Jan Tore Sanner, but now it is. Now we're going to support each other and help, so good luck. It is a matter we have discussed quite a lot in the days that have been. All parties are concerned about aviation and how important it is to Norway and that it is a critical infrastructure for society. Among other things, I received stated that for Onkøe, the deciduous largest customer was the Norwegian Health Service, i.e. people going to the hospital for health care. There will be a majority today to ensure the loss of income on the FOT routes. There are no government parties. I'm going to say 'until now', because now it's a majority, so I just want to encourage Mr. Sanner, together with his colleagues, to take a little extra round and evaluate it, as long as there's a majority. I feel that together we have a very strong desire to secure and secure Norwegian aviation, and I expect that there will also be more action in the future, which we will support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e902	Everyone is obviously concerned that we should also have a good infrastructure in the air. It's an important part of Norwegian society. With great distances, we also depend on that part of the infrastructure. Now the government and the different departments are working with different solutions in the critical situation we are in now, and we have a desire to see the whole of the proposals and measures that are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e907	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e914	I want to commend the finance committee that has worked day and night. It's good that the main impression here is broad consensus. That there is not consensus on all points, I also believe that there is natural and something we can live with in this room, but the most important thing – to support the first line, those who work in health care, those who work in health care homes, those who make sure that the wheels go around – is that we agree. So now this question is sometimes highlighted, and we get it in the days that come: Is the opposition lifted? Is that no longer the case in the Storting? To that I would say that the opposition lives well. We're now doing the most important thing first, and we're ensuring that we get to vote for good decisions that make the whole country, all groups. We are all recipients of input from people – women and men, businesses and working life, hospitals and hospitals – reporting needs. Today we have one thing where we disagree, this with dividends. I hear the finance minister say that he expects those who receive support from the state not to take large dividends. I think there's a clear political difference here. We all expect that, but with experience from previous financial crises, more has been done than to expect, it has been put down on paper that it is actually required that there is a counter-performance for those receiving support. If the Right moves there when you're going to process the next package, I think it's positive. I would also like to say that many people ask how long this will last, and who we should now trust in in order to be able to change the measures that have been taken. We're listening to the public health authorities, it's the Workers' Party, but I also want to say that the government has a responsibility to make assessments of the whole of how these measures work, and the consequences of them. It is quite clear that we – a little ahead of time – must have a full review of how the play to this situation was from the Norwegian side: Were we prepared? Did we make the right decisions? It's a time for everything, and it's not now. And there is a time before and after Thursday last week, when drastic action was taken, where the Workers' Party has thought it important to support – as I said – the first line, and we are in close dialogue with the government. However, there is still a need for a political assessment when you listen to the professional authorities, in order to balance the consequences in society against the effects of the measures we take. We listen to the public health authorities, which are among the best in the world, I have great confidence in them, and then I assume that government and greatness also take a self-responsive responsibility for demanding elections that will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e929	I would also like to thank you for a very good cooperation and a willingness to stand together in a rapidly changing national crisis situation. Only since Monday have we seen growing problems for businesses and businesses, with great consequences for jobs, for families and for society as a whole. Owners of small and large enterprises, professional organisations and individuals contact us about the challenges they face, and that makes a strong impression. And without those recordings, we wouldn't have been able to adapt the measures to the reality that's out there either. It is dramatic when Nav reports 113 500 applications for daily allowances in one week. About 150 000 people are registered completely unemployed – 84 000 more in one week – and the number of sick messages shoots in the weather. This requires ongoing targeted measures that can work rapidly. We have a powerful toolbox of monetary policy and other instruments, which is now being used to secure jobs, so that otherwise healthy and viable businesses fail. In addition to what we agreed on on Monday, we now agree on further important measures in the field of taxation, which deal with the recovery of deficits this year against taxed profits over the previous two years and with deferred tax for business owners. In addition, when we can provide additional relief on the fee side by reducing the employer’s fee by 4 percentage points in one semester, i.e. for two months now, we ensure that a liquidity of about 10 billion is guaranteed. kr may remain in the enterprises and be used to keep operations going, because for most enterprises this is primarily a liquidity crisis, not a health crisis. Then it is hoped that Nav will quickly put in place the necessary systems and technical solutions, so that decisions and payments on enhanced benefits can be implemented quickly. The economy and capacity on the personnel side become crucial, not only in hospitals, but also in municipalities and in the administration. We'll make sure of that. The whole people now stand together to help each other and to stand up for the hard work. We make sure that the state contributes and does what is necessary, but, as many have said, it becomes a great social virtue. The good spirit of banks and other actors with strong economic muscles is also being challenged. We don't have to adopt it, but accuracy, accuracy and moderation are important values in business. Let it also shape the current arrangements, in a time of crisis, when large government contributions are made available to businesses and to financial actors. There is a request that I trust will be followed up out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e942	I thank you for the debate in Stortinget. Because of the Red article, I would like to say – for the record – that all parties have participated at all committee meetings. All the information that has come to the Financial Committee has been shared with all the parties in the Financial Committee and with the Stortinget. I personally and the Working Party have no requests we have not answered, either from Red or from MDG, about the process or the negotiations. I take note that while the country is in crisis, Red will nevertheless give priority to talking about himself. Our door in the Workers' Party has been open for contact all along and will be in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e949	The story is now taking a break in the debate. The meeting will be set again at 2.30 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e969	The President will inform you that it is not ready to go to voting, and that it is working on a bomb to complete the vote. It will be called in as soon as it is ready, and the meeting is now paused again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e990	Before the Storting goes to voting, the President will state the following: All settings published on the setup. In addition, the Financial Committee’s position on the corona measures issued this morning is available in the paper version. As far as voting is concerned, the President will propose that the voting procedure be governed by Paragraph 60(a) of the Rules of Procedure: ‘The President invites representatives who are in favour or opposed to a proposal to stand up. The President may also hold a counter-vote.’.» In this way, the representatives do not need to use the voting buttons, and therefore do not have to be dependent on sitting in their fixed positions. The President will once again request that the representatives be properly separated from each other. The President is going to take this vote quite slowly. The vote will then be taken on the rest of the items on agenda No. 61. Case No. 1–9 was finalised at the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1071	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1081	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1107	Furthermore, the following were set: The majority agrees that the toll company is allowed to extend the collection of tolls in the Transport Package for the Kristiansand region phase 1 to the end of 2020 if it has local political consent to this by decision. The conditions are derived from this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1114	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1133	A total of 20 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 9 and 10, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 11, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party the proposals No 12-17, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 18, from Hulda Holtvedt on behalf of the Green and Red Environment Party the proposals No 19 and 20, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1157	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from Red. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking safe persons over 70 years of age to be entitled to sickness benefit.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government asks the government to extend the maximum period of leave from 26 to 52 weeks. Days of leave and daily allowances used before the Korona crisis must not be deducted from the employee’s rights during the crisis.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1179	There is a vote on proposal No. 18 from the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests that students receive a daily allowance, or otherwise ensure that students receive compensation equivalent to a daily allowance, as a daily allowance is calculated for other employees. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The change shall enter into force immediately and payments shall take place as soon as a technical solution is in place.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1187	That's when the Greens and Reds are going to rise. There's someone who's stood up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1199	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 15, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to implement the necessary measures to ensure that banks and other credit institutions grant periods of amortization on their loans to all those in need.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the banks that have now received reduced capital buffer requirements not to pay dividends until further notice’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1222	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the temporary grant of an extra grant to all students corresponding to the additional grant which is normally intended for students and students who cannot work alongside the education because of disability.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1237	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13, 14, 16 and 17, from the Socialist Left Party and Red. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the government to ensure that the public debt collectors stop the enforcement, freeze interest on late payment and suspend and implement other similar measures while the crisis is under way.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that private debt collection agencies stop enforcement, freeze interest on late payment and impose requirements and implement other equivalent measures while the crisis is under way.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure equal coverage for all persons who receive the daily allowance whether they are on leave or are unemployed.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to enter into an agreement with the business organisations for a business crisis package setting out an absolute requirement for zero dividends until further notice for companies receiving a State guarantee for loans, offering government bond financing or liquidity relief for government loan schemes during the duration of the loan.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1271	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the temporary exemption of air carriers from all airport charges for the period from 1 January 2020 until further notice and that the Government makes proposals for the necessary compensation of Avinor in the revised national budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to clarify that the compensation scheme covers all establishments, including subcontractors, which, due to their imposition, are losing revenue and asks the government to ensure that, if the exceptional situation associated with the coronary virus persists, real losses are covered by cultural operators in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1295	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-8, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget, to ensure national and spread ownership through loan and support schemes.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to extend the growth guarantee scheme by covering a sufficiently large proportion of banks’ liquidity risk to small and medium-sized enterprises’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure guarantee schemes for extended credit for businesses in the travel sector.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the temporary freezing of all loans in Innovation Norway. That is to say, companies should be able to obtain a discharge in respect of their loans without incurring interest and costs.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Government to ensure that the Innovation Norway lending and grant framework is strengthened and that through risk loans and enhanced grant schemes they can contribute more to ensuring the need for better liquidity for businesses in the current situation. This should be done as far as possible with banks/financial institutions.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals where companies receiving State guarantees for loans, offers of government debt financing or liquidity relief on government loan schemes undertake to set a maximum remuneration limit for group management and other senior employees in 2020 and 2021, for example through a zero growth requirement.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals setting a limit on the payment of dividends for companies receiving State guarantees on loans, offers of government debt financing or liquidity reliefs on government loan schemes during the duration of the loan.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide adequate compensation for cultural institutions with more than 50 psts. public support, which has been affected by cancellations due to the corona virus and the advice of the health authority.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1734	It's over A and B.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1744	That's right. It's right over C. IX. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it. There is reason to believe that the Socialist Left Party will rise. Does that mean that there is unanimity on C IX? Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1756	It shall be counted against C XI and XII. Right, Left, and Christian People's Party have announced that it will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1770	It shall be counted over C I to VIII, X and XIII to XVI.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1787	Three proposals have been put forward for this matter. That is the proposal No. 1-3 from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red. There is a vote on proposal No. One from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 18 December 2009 No. 131 on social services in labour and welfare management is amended as follows: [[Social Services Act]] Paragraph 51(a) is added as follows: § 51 a Regulations on exemptions in the case of general dangerous contagious disease, etc. The provisions of this paragraph shall apply in the event of an outbreak or a risk of an outbreak of a general dangerous disease. The Ministry may provide for temporary provisions on financial benefits to self-employed persons, freelancers and others without a permanent employer who lose income because contracts and contracts cannot be carried out as a result of the situations referred to in the first subparagraph. In such cases, it shall be possible for benefits to be granted without regard to economic needs tests as provided for in Section 18. II The law shall enter into force immediately.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1820	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from Red. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests, as a temporary provision, that persons who have been refused the extension of redundancy payments without having been clarified be provided with financial social assistance without regard to economic needs tests under the provisions of Section 18 of the Social Services Act.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «As a temporary provision, the government asks that persons without a permanent employer who temporarily lose all or part of the income base as a result of the corona pandemic may be granted financial support without regard to economic needs tests under the provisions of Section 18 of the Social Services Act.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e1997	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e2039	Red has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e2049	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e2059	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-19.ana.ud13e2099	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
