ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e38	From the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Per Espen Stoknes, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e58	Per Espen Stoknes is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Solfrid Lerbreck, has asked for the floor to withdraw a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e65	I would just like to say that my co-rapporteurs and I are drawing a representative proposal for 11 L for 2019-2020. It is because the government party addressed this issue in connection with another matter that we dealt with before Christmas, Innst. 80 L for 2019-2020. We therefore considered it appropriate to consider our proposals for the same theme that the government itself addressed, even though the theme was not mentioned in the proposition in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e70	The communication of the representative, Solfrid Lerbrück, will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e86	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative of Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e95	In the last few weeks, we have seen a popular uprising along the coast towards a sharp rise in ferry prices. We're talking about extra ferry charges of 10, 20 and 30 pst, and some places of 40 pst. I grew up myself with Tau-ferja to Stavanger. That's what's now been to Ryfast. We who come from the coastal and fjord communities know that ferries are not just food; ferries are also a necessity. As a result, Dad could commute to Stavanger and work in Dusavika, so we could get to the hospital when we needed it, as well as of course it could also be a nice excursion to the city. Now we almost daily see an example of what extra ferry prices mean for the everyday economy of ordinary families. The Sun’s butter item can tell about daily commuters who have to spend NOK 11 000 more per year on daily commuting. And we can read at Nrk.no that parents who want to follow their kids on football training from Dønna to Lake Sandness have risked paying 500 kroner each time. Similar stories can be heard about patients, holidaymakers and local businesses, which are now getting a bigger bill. I would like to remind you that this happens at the same time as the government has reduced the deduction of commuters, and at the same time, the government has proposed zero in growth in county councils' free incomes over the last two years. It's not that constructive when politicians owe each other. What is constructive is to fix the problems that exist in everyday life for people. There's a problem here, and it creates quite strong reactions for many along the coast. The Labour Party has proposed more to the counties every year for the last seven years. This would give the country a better economy, and it would allow lower holiday prices for more people. So I almost have to ask why the Prime Minister well to conduct a policy that makes it more expensive for people in the districts to get to and from work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e106	I fully agree with the representative Hadia Tajik on the need to understand people's everyday lives, and not least that we represent counties where there is a significant number of people who depend on ferries every day to get to work, to make everyday life work work, realize that they also have the right to get their daily lives together. Therefore, the government is concerned that we should have a good ferry offer. We are committed to ensuring good transport arrangements throughout the country. Then it is that ferry tariffs for county ferries are a responsibility for the county municipality, and it is the county municipalities that have fixed and made changes in the ferry tariffs. I am now registering, among other things, the reaction of the municipality of Nordland to its increase in ferry tariffs has led to the withdrawal of its ferry tax increase by the county of Nordland. I am concerned that the policy must actually take responsibility for the responsibility it bears. The government has some responsibilities. Among other things, we have called for more green shifts, which is why we have great ambitions for more green and new tenders to reduce emissions. We also carried out a review of the additional costs associated with it. Although it is voluntary for each county municipality to participate in it, it is a wish from us. This has led to a five percent increase. That's why we added 100 million in 2018. kr more to the counties of ferries, just to do so, and we changed the cost key in 2018, which contributed more money to the ferries, to ensure that you could cover those costs. But there are some choices that state politicians make themselves, and the county economy has been robust and good for all these years. There is also a significant surplus in the counties that have now set up ferry tariffs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e115	In the case of cuts in commuting, the government must take responsibility for it itself. When it comes to the county's revenue, the government has to take responsibility for it itself. For example, they make the changes in the income system proposed by the government that counties like Nordland are left with nearly half a billion dollars less between 2017 and 2023. The government must take responsibility for that. The operating surplus that the Prime Minister refers to the fact that the county has and should take off is something KS recommends that the county should have as a minimum of equity for investments and provisions. Taking it off from the ferry prices can hardly be called investment and reserves; it is still a well-known operating cost. So I almost have to ask again: what time does the Prime Minister intend to take responsibility for what she is actually responsible for? At least the boundaries of the county councils would be much larger with the Labour Party in government. We have seen that in all our alternative budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e122	The free income of county councils has been maintained at a high level, although the number of high school students has decreased. So the demographic changes have meant that in the last few years, the income of county councils had to be reduced in order for them to be at the same level. Then we have chosen not to do that, precisely because we see that it takes time to adapt, and that you have to take that into account. If you take the municipality of Nordland: the municipality of Nordland has a cost-adjusted income level, if you compare the expenditure with the others, which is 19 p.m. higher than the national average for other counties. They have an operating result of 15.8 pst. So there is room for them to take responsibility for their own ferry services and ferry systems. I hear a lot of suggestions now that we should take responsibility and set limits around this. I trust that our Right-wing politicians will make good judgements around the county municipalities. I hope that red-green politicians, and now, despite all the red-green politicians in these states, have confidence from their party leadership that they can make good choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e131	There will be follow-up questions – first Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e136	I'm quite sure that state politicians are doing what is possible with the tight economy they have, but I'm noticing that when the toll riot started, in my home state, the government got on the track late. As long as ordinary people were concerned with their lives, it was basically just vocabulary and displacement of responsibility. But then all of a sudden it was about the government's life. There was an electoral campaign, and there was an uprising between the Progress Party and the Left, when the Prime Minister flew home from a Nordic meeting in Iceland to get to the finish line with the toll negotiations with his government partners. The fact that the government proposed to put money on the table to get the tolls down. Then I have to ask, why don't we see a corresponding commitment to the situation of people along the coast? Is it because it's not a choice this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e141	We have a strong commitment for people along the coast. That's why we, among other things. added an extra 100 million. kr, which is part of the income system, for the ferry offer. We have helped to ensure that the county municipalities have a better economy, a solid economy, and, as I said, the operating profit in the county municipality of Nordland was 5.8 p.m. They have 19 pst. higher compensation in revenue than the expenditure-adjusted level, i.e. when compared with expenditure in other counties. Then I think it's easy for some parties to make policies by blaming the state. I think the responsibility must be where they are responsible, that is to say, for the state policies. If we believe that the state politicians are unable to deal with this, what are the state politicians able to handle? The additional costs that we contribute with, among others: with regard to the objective we have in climate policy, I have said that we should look even more closely. In the context of the revised national budget, we have been given a mission from our parties at Stortinget to come back and see if the distribution key is good enough for it, so that we take responsibility for the incentives we give.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e148	Ingenilla Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e153	We know that in the election campaign the Prime Minister hastened home from Iceland because of toll riots. It was a crisis in the country and in the government. Later, we got air-conditioning noise outside Stortinget, which put the climate on the agenda – also a necessity. Now we have a ferry riot, because the tickets are unreasonablely expensive to the people of the coast. The ferries are the bogs of the coast. The Prime Minister has not rushed from farms to the first and most expensive ferries. We who are born on the coast and are used to roar high in the headwind to be heard, wonder if there is a ferry from the coast that needs to be done for the Prime Minister to act in this matter and take the trouble seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e159	My question back to the Workers' Party – or who it must be: Do they mean that we should deprive county councils of responsibility for setting prices because they are unable to handle this? As Prime Minister, may I take over control because red-green politicians cannot deliver, despite having, as in Northern Ireland, 5.8 p.m. in operating result? Is it the case that the Workers' Party is now running an electoral campaign in its own inability to provide good services, where they have been given responsibility by the voters? I'm very concerned that we're going to have a good ferry offer, and we're going to look at solutions, arrangements and areas around this, but the starting point is that we've increased the free revenues more than the demographic expenditure also in the year's budget for county municipalities. The operating results have been good, they are varied. Møre and Romsdal counties are those who have the worst and who have had the worst state economy in recent years, measured against others, but Nordland counties are among those who have the best economy. So they get compensation for the changes that happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e166	Ingenilla Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e171	We have had climate change and we all know that the transport sector must be active in the green shift. Elf ferries, electric buses and high speed electric boats are being built – by county municipalities. But if we are to achieve the goal, it must strengthen government governance. Troms and Finnmark County are working on a prototype of hydrogen. We know that prototypes are much more expensive. The county economy may influence it itself to some extent, but it is the responsibility of the State to ensure that the county municipalities have sufficient resources to achieve the objectives set out in this room. How will the government support this so that we get increased county municipal efforts related to environmentally friendly public transport without the passengers having to pay the bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e178	I mean, I actually answered what is being asked about now, in my previous answers to Hadia Tajik. I agree that what is the climate challenges, for which we have a national debt, is among the things that the state should contribute to taking extra costs. That is also why we have had a review from the DNV GL of nine of the projects that have been implemented. It showed that of the ferry projects, 5 pst. of these increases related to climate issues. That is why we have been involved in changing the distribution key for criteria in the income system. We've said that we want to keep track of these expenses. We've added 100 million. kr more for its allocation. And yes, this is among the things we come back to in the revised national budget. The counties that have done the most are the counties of the West. Hordaland was one of the early states. Under the leadership of Tom-Christer Nilsen when he was the county rapporteur, they set themselves an ambitious plan for replacement, and it's based on the trials and projects we've now calculated what the cost inequality is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e185	Ingenilla Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e190	You don't have to travel far outside Oslo until you register a lot of frustration. We have mentioned ferry prices, but we also have razed roads, tunnels that do not follow the tunnel regulations and a huge maintenance run on the county roads. In Finnmark we don't actually have a single road project, just a tunnel started, and in 2017 it was so little to do for the contractors in Finnmark that they had to quit people. Then the question is, when will the government fulfill its promises of the journey promise of time, as it is called, throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e195	The government has raised the transport budget by 80 pst. It is one of the largest and most powerful efforts that have been in some sector in Norway for a very long time, in order to address developments and challenges. We have also helped to make more money for the county municipalities. It is quite right that when the red-green government transferred the county roads to the counties, they were transferred with a large maintenance seat. We have therefore also increased the appropriations and justified increases in the income system of the counties precisely with the need to rust up the county roads. But it will take time to get to port with all that. But we do road projects in all parts of the country. In the first part of this government period, we've made sure to have high pressure in North Norway, not least related to E6, and we're going to continue to have high pressure related to the development of infrastructure. We believe that this is extremely important in order to develop and expand good labour market regions and make everyday life better for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e204	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e209	This is a bit of a messy debate. What has happened is that in 2015 the Stortinget decided that one should have a transition to zero and low emission ferries. At the same time, a government asked to come back with their own arrangements for the extra cost this would entail. So TØI, the Transport Economics Institute, and Menon have calculated what that extra cost will be. They've said he'll be between 800 million. kr and 1,2 br. kr. This also acknowledges the government. In the Green Shipping Action Plan, which came in June 2019, they say that in a future revision of the cost keys they will increase their height. But it's only 100 million. kr, i.e. one twelfth of the additional costs that counties must have. If not, they have to take the entire bill themselves, and that's exactly what we see happening. That's what's behind the uprising. When will the government calculate the costs that TØI has said the extra cost is?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e218	Overall, the conversion and contribution of Enova, the Research Council and others to implement the conversion of ferry operations in Norway we are now seeing has been used for a total of 1.6 billion. kr. There are therefore significant grants for construction, projects and their development in order to contribute to lower emissions by county and state municipalities. In the case of tenders and the costs of tenders and the allocation of expenditure related to what is now a zero-emission offer rather than a dieselferge, there is 5 pst. of the increased quantity of the tender. That's also the reason for the 100 million. The crowns. It is quite right that we should look at this as we get experience from it, but then it is important to remember that this replacement is not the reason why the county council has now set up prices, because there have hardly been any changes in the bids related to climate. That's why new Western countries and Moors and Romesdal have some challenges just as part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e227	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e233	I'm afraid the experience that the government is waiting to host is seriously affecting the coastal population. Now people tell me they can't afford to get to work. It takes a lot to get a leisure experience in the center. It is a fairly expensive experience that one now spends the full cost of the green shift on the coastal population. This is not communicated to Stortinget in any way. The only thing that Biggest knows is that it's been added 100 million. NOK to compensate for this, where it would be between 800 million. NOK 1200 and SEK 1200 million. kr. I understand it so that a reference to Enova and access schemes through them, but the additional cost, as the government itself says in the Green Shipping Action Plan, intervenes in a transitional phase. When this happens, the Storting will see an increase in government contributions, e.g. in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e242	The costs of ferry operations and others will be returned in the context of the revised national budget, in line with what the government parties have also wanted us to come back to. These are issues on which the Stortinget has been informed, and we have had discussions on the issues, for example: related to green shipping. When the representative thinks he is going to clear up the debate, I think that red-green politicians in this room should distinguish between what is climate and environmental – the zero-carbon ferry challenge – and what is the cause of other expenditure. The municipality of Nordland cannot take the green shift as a basis for the challenges. We have calculated what the real costs – zero emission costs – are, as DNV GL did for the nine ferry services that were then given. We're assuming that we've initially covered in with the 100 million. The heads, but that's something that we'll follow further. We are committed to taking the bill for climate policy, but not for all other red-green ideas and solutions in the county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e251	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e256	The Prime Minister chooses to put a – I'll be careful to use too many words – a bit of arrogance towards those who asked questions before today, a little encouraging tone, but what is the main point is that the ticket prices for ferries and speedboats are too high. That's a fact, and I think we have to do something about it. Norway is a long-distance country. We have fjords, islands, living communities, businesses and huge value creation along our entire coast, and we are totally dependent on the ferries and speedboats joining the country. When we go away from the lecture, from explanations, what I want to say is a little bit of arrogance, this is about the everyday life of the company that's going to get things going together. It's about the commuter who has experienced that it's been tightened up in the commuting allowance, it's about family life, and it's about everyday life for people. And the coastal population has been hit pretty hard. The government has decided to increase VAT on the ferry ticket by 50 pst. It is an active choice that Prime Minister Erna Solberg has made, which has made it more expensive to use speedboat, ferry and bus. It's increased by 50 pst. You have chosen it actively, and it affects those who have to travel far, to cut the commuting allowance. Many commuters get NOK 5000 to NOK 6000 more in tax because of the way the government has tightened the commuting allowance. The government chose to actively target the coastal population in the way the changed income keys in 2015, which has affected coastal regions by the withdrawal of income. The government also chose in 2015, when we discussed our desire to have low-emission ferries, which the Central Party has burned for, to actively vote down the Center Party's proposal that the State should take the bill. You wouldn't do that. In sum, it has made the offer worse and prices have increased. Then my question is to the Prime Minister – away from teaching and to an answer: What will the Prime Minister do to bring down the ticket prices and ensure a good offer along our coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e269	Disclosure of facts is neither instructive nor arrogant. That kind of stamping of others – to stamp others that way – is used when the arguments start to get thin for their own cause. I think the representative should end up with that. The right and the whole government are equally concerned that we're going to have low prices, and that everyday life is going to go together for people. But I've heard the Center Party before, I – a centre party that promised free highways before they came into government in 2005. We never saw anything more. It's important to say that there's some financial framework around this that we have to take over. In fact, one of the frameworks is that county municipalities have a relatively good economy, and have had it over several years. Then some decisions have been made that it has become more expensive for the ferries, among other things. using AutoPASS and its related system and there is a challenge in some county municipalities. Then some of the county councils still have a high surplus on their budgets and a good operating surplus. That is probably also why they have now seen that it was not right to increase ferry prices as much as they themselves had suggested. A policy that does not mean that each of us takes responsibility for what we are responsible for also seems to me to be a way of pulverizing responsibilities in our democracy. And then my question is back to the Center Party: are they saying that we should take responsibility for the county ferries, determine the regulation attached to this, because red-green politicians cannot take this responsibility? I believe that civil parties and politicians are able to take this responsibility and find good solutions around the county municipalities, without making everyday life more difficult for people. Then we're going to take responsibility for what we're responsible for, and I've said that repeatedly: we're going to follow closely the new environmental and emission requirements that come along, and make sure that we achieve our goal of 50 pst. in fact, domestic shipping shall be zero-emission solutions — and, broadly speaking, the whole of ferry traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e282	The Prime Minister jumps – if it can be called elegant, I do not know, but at least she jumps over many of the concrete steps she has full responsibility for as Prime Minister, for example. We have had such a sharp increase in VAT. Of course, when the government actively increases its VAT rate, it gives the price of tickets. It'll give you more expensive tickets. VAT has increased by 50 pst. – 4 percentage points. It's an active operation that Prime Minister Erna Solberg has taken. Prime Minister Erna Solberg has actively taken action to cut the commuting allowance, tighten it up, which has made it more expensive and more difficult for people. She has actively changed the income key in 2015, which meant that the districts and ferries lost most, and then she has chosen not to finance the costs of introducing low-emission ferries. The last, most quality-assured figures are that it has an extra cost of 468 million per year. kr. Then my question is: will there be real money in the revised national budget, or will there just be something symbolic to show that you can pretend to be doing something? Will you take the bill, or is it the coastal population that will take the bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e289	I assume that the representative is aware that we have compensated the county councils for the increase in VAT, and that public transport and the other modes of transport were compensated when they introduced the VAT changes. When you use that argument against us, it's one of the things that we did just so that we wouldn't get a worse offer attached to it. This is the case in the income system in Norway. Changes in expenditure of the type that the municipalities do not have, but which are government orders and others, we change at the bottom before we change growth. We do that in all areas where there are task changes and cost changes that have been taken into account. It's like, yes, we made the changes in the income systems in 2015 to make it fairer to distribute. However, the county still has the county council of 19 p.m. greater compensation, i.e. more revenue than the calculation of what their cost structure and the large distances would actually provide, so there's still an overcompensation in relation to what you're going to deliver in other counties. And then the representative forgets that in 2018 we made new changes in the income system that just benefited Nordland and More and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e296	There will be follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e301	Let's do Nordland, for example. Nordland lost $282 million. kr of the change in 2015. Sogn and Fjordane lost $278 million. kr. Hordaland, the home state of the Prime Minister, lost a little less, but they also lost – if I don't remember wrong, about 40 million. kr. It has been compensated a little bit back now, but in some cases they lose large, large sums. If I don't remember wrong, Nordland loses 279 million. kr after the change, so it is important that you dare to stand up for what you have actually done. They have taken an active step because they believed that the districts and ferries were getting too much money, and then the government took an active step in 2015. This government also took an active step in 2015 when it voted against a proposal to take the bill to get low- and zero-emission ferries around our coast. It was only the Central Party and the Workers' Party that voted for the state to take that bill. Is it time for the Prime Minister to start taking the bill, or does she think it's okay for the coastal population to take the costs of the green conversion of our shipping?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e306	The representative jumps smoothly over what we did in 2018, which made changes to the ferry keys so that Nordland and More and Romsdal got more money anyway, and we added 100 million. kr in compensation. We're constantly going through these schemes to make sure that we actually pay for and compensate for the extra costs that come when you switch to zero-emission solutions. But back to the challenge for the Northern County Municipality: it is not the zero-emission solutions that are the challenge for the Northern County Municipality. They have almost not started this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e313	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e319	It seems that the Prime Minister thinks that all her government has done is perfect. The fact that there is now so much unrest along the coast is everyone's fault other than the government, although the state politicians from the Right have also voted in favour of the same decisions along the coast, because they see the same framework. The consequences of this policy are that supply is getting worse. Some offers will be closed. Prices go up, and there's a lot, a lot of uncertainty. After hearing the Prime Minister in Stortinget today, we see that there is no desire to take any new concrete action to bring down prices, to help commuters, to help communities and families who are totally dependent on the ferry and the speedboat going every day. Is it that the Prime Minister is actually going to take some action, or is it the way it's given the impression now, that everything is perfect even if prices go up along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e324	I don't think it's perfect that prices go up, as they have done in District Norway, but I think it's nice that the Center Party can't take responsibility for its own actions. Why did people vote for the Central Party in Northern Ireland if it is not to mean that they have voted for the Central Party in Northern Ireland and that they can take responsibility for the actions of the politicians in Northern Ireland? Now they've seen that it wasn't necessary, and they've obviously had room to put down the ferry prices. One of the things I've always believed that the Right Party and the Center Party agreed on was the decentralization of power. Decentralisation of power also means taking responsibility for the decisions taken at the different levels and areas. What I'm experiencing now is that the Center Party is trying to powder this power by saying that where the Center Party has power, they haven't really done anything, they're not the ones responsible for the decisions they're making. It's the government that's responsible for all the centralization that the Central Party's local politicians actually do, because they see that they have to make some changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e331	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e336	Yes, let's go a little further on responsibility and the facts. It is a fact that this government has changed the income keys of the counties in two ways – to the detriment of the coastal communities, to the detriment of the counties with large distances, long distances. It is not that the change one made in 2015 was compensated for by the change in 2018, on the contrary. Net, Nordland continues to lose 280 million annually. kr with the new income keys. Sogn and Fjordane lose 278 million. kr annually, and Hordaland loses 58 million. kr annually. There are facts about government changes in the income keys. So the prime minister says that Nordland has a higher cost than the national average. Yeah, Nordland doesn't look exactly like the national average. It's a state of many challenges, great distances and many islands that need ferries. The Prime Minister may ask other parties to be held responsible, but that must also be the responsibility of the government and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e343	I take very much responsibility for the income system and the principle at the bottom of it. When I was a municipal minister, I said that it was one of the most beautiful things we had, that we were going to create a neutral income system that wasn't politically driven by what you wanted, and what you wanted to pay money for, but that was actually going to compensate for real cost differences. That's what you do. You go through and look at the real differences in expenditure in areas where county municipalities and regions have a responsibility. And then you take the distance constraints. So we can always discuss these distribution keys, but given all of the distribution keys that are based on the distance constraints in Northern Ireland, you have 19 pst. higher coverage, because we have our own North Norway grant that comes to the top of an income system that just absorbs these changes and changes that occur, and they have an operating surplus of 5.8 pst. I understand that there are challenges at a time when there is population decline, that there are challenges when the economy gets a little tighter, but it's going to be a result we see in many countries in the future. The county council has, as I said, made changes, because they probably had financial space to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e350	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e355	One important reason why the economy has become worse for coastal regions is that the government has changed the income keys to the detriment of coastal regions – with the losses I just mentioned in almost 300 million. kr for more of the counties. This is the basis for the difficult situation in some of the coastal areas now in, among others. in the case of ferries. The state has also incurred an uncovered extra cost of almost 500 million. kr through the measure of zero-emission journeys. The Central Party and the Workers' Party proposed that the State should bear that additional cost. The Right Party and the Advance Party did not want it, and 100 million. kr is far from enough. It is a responsibility that the government must also be able to take if it is such that responsibility in politics should have some meaning. The government cannot rhetorically hide behind the priority given to the states here – the government must also recognise the grips they have taken that make the situation more difficult for coastal communities. Tolls and urban growth agreements are important for this government, and urban growth agreements are also initially a municipal responsibility. Why is the government so little concerned with ferries and the difficult situation we have in the ferries today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e362	We're very busy with ferries. That is why we have helped to ensure that national ferries have a better offer, that they go more often, that we have a good pricing system for it. We have made sure that the car pays through the AutoPASS system, and that passengers who travel collectively or who travel without driving a car or sitting on do not pay. That's our responsibility. That's among the things we do. In the case of the income system, the objective comparative criteria are: The government has redeployed between counties — yes. Other county municipalities should also have secondary school students, ensure that their dental services are good, make sure that the bus can go and that the roads are developed. That's why we have criteria systems. But until the last two years, the economy of county councils has grown in total. In the last two years, free income has actually grown because there is a lower level of demographic expenditure for county municipalities. It's important to remember that when you don't want to make changes in income, that means that the Centre Party takes from other counties to distribute to these counties, which initially have higher expenditure coverage than others.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e371	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e376	The proposal of the Centre Party on the income framework for municipalities and counties has also led to an increase in the framework. We're not just based on redistribution, we're also based on increasing the framework of the municipalities and the counties because they're doing so many important tasks for this society. The Prime Minister here mentions the state road ferries, and the state has invested in them. Yeah, I'm sure they do. It's going to be 15 pst. of ferry traffic in Norway. 85 pst. It is the counties who are responsible for it. And the most responsible states are the states that have lost most in the conversion of the income keys that this government has proposed. They also lose sight of the fact that the State is not willing to take full responsibility for introducing zero-emission journeys. Then you can talk about compensation schemes — there are schemes that often have to contribute to the fall being this way instead of that in terms of changes in the income keys. [[the representative drives the arm downwards and downwards respectively]] I want to repeat the question, because urban growth agreements are also initially a municipal responsibility. Public transport is also primarily the responsibility of county municipalities. This government and the Right are very concerned about it. Why can't one also be a little bit more concerned with the county ferries?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e387	Self-payment in urban growth agreements is very high. We've set out to initially 50-50, which is a big commitment to public transport in cities to ensure that we can achieve our climate goals, make sure that our zero growth target can work, so that fewer people take their own car and travel collectively in the larger cities and contribute to the improvement of urban air. The big self-payment actually happens to those who go in and out and use the cities. We are concerned with urban growth agreements, because we feel that it has been important for the whole of the Norwegian economy that we have to get cities that can work, that the air should get better. It's a pretty big egotism in terms of the tolls paid in these areas. Then I want to say that we are going to take responsibility for the costs associated with the climate issues and the zero emission bit. It's spent 1.6 billion. kr on this programme from the Research Council and Enova so far. We have increased the operating budget by 100 million. kr. The analysis made in the first nine tenders is that there is a 5 pst. increase due to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e397	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e402	Last Friday, VG could reveal that child protection in Norway is becoming increasingly dominated by international capital. The romantic story of the right-hand side of the story that commercial actors in well-being are primarily small-scale Norwegian entrepreneurs and local fires, is becoming more distant for every discovery that comes. Care and protection of our most vulnerable children has become a market where the largest child protection actors in recent years have bought up a number of smaller companies. Several of the companies also prove to be part of large funds in tax havens. So the international capital has stretched a dense suction pipe all the way from Luxembourg, Jersey, Guernsey and right into the Norwegian state treasury. Money to go to vulnerable children in Norway ends up in the accounts of international financial elites. There is, of course, a large part of the self-image of the right, with the responsible management of taxpayers' money. The Prime Minister often talks about sustainability and efficiency. At the same time, the government has never cared about trying to figure out how much of the taxpayers’ money disappears from the Norwegian state fund and Norwegian welfare and is profiting from rich owners domestically and abroad. There is nothing productive or effective for Norway in that tax money ends up in Guernsey instead of being used for the care and protection of vulnerable children. Therefore, I wonder whether the Prime Minister thinks it is a problem that funds placed in tax havens own an increasingly large part of Norwegian child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e411	The main challenge in Norwegian child protection is quality. The main challenge for politicians is that we deliver the best quality to the children, that we provide more stability, less movement, that we have good resources around these children, so that they get the security they lack. I believe that we always – and we have to be sure – when we bring a child out of a family to take care of because the family has failed, we have to deliver something that is better, in child protection. That is what I think our main focus should be – we should not have as the main focus who operates the services, but make sure that the quality, the offer and the treatment are optimal. We are making very strong demands for endurance in some private offers. That means that they have to have a pretty large capital base when they deliver things, you have to have security around it, and that makes several of the little ones connect to larger chains to contribute to it. What has been important, and what we know, is that private people have helped us through some incredibly important crises. In 2015/2016 we received a large influx of lone minor asylum seekers. Those under the age of 15 shall enter into care for the protection of children. Then we need to have flexible, good solutions. We need to have quality companies and organisations that can guide when you need to expand quickly, whether it's foster home, whether there's institution placements. What we've seen is that those who were most flexible, those who had the best and fastest ability to turn around and do this, were actually quite a few of the private actors. That's why I think it's important to remember that there's also an image in it. It is an image that voluntary or non-profit organisations also have the ability to deliver an offer more quickly. In fact, I think this should be the main focus. So we always have to make sure you don't pay too much, and that's why we need to have good tendering rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e420	The quality of child protection is the starting point for this discussion. We have to make sure that every crown allocated to child protection goes to child protection. But the system we have now makes sure that big money runs away somewhere else and ends up in the pockets of some rich owners, or even in Luxembourg, Guernsey and Jersey in the accounts of international finance elite. It cannot be an effective management of taxpayers' money. Therefore, the question is, why does the Prime Minister allow this waste of tax money? I didn't really get an answer to the question, so I just repeat it: Does the Prime Minister think it's a problem that funds placed in tax havens, to which this government is otherwise critical, own an increasingly large part of Norwegian child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e425	I think it is worrying if we do not have transparency about the cash flow and make sure that the money goes to the children's development and to make good offers to the children. But it is not that it is synonymous with good quality that only the money becomes a place – it is important to remember. It is perhaps a bit as the deputy representative of the SV in Troms said a few years ago, who had been a foster parent linked to a private larger company, that he got much better follow-up through the guidance service for foster parents that they had in this larger company than what he felt the municipality could actually give. It's because there can also be a professionalism in quality – that there may be advisers, helpers coming in. It was that at an early stage in some of these, one also linked to psychological help more closely than what one might, for example. did so in the public domain. So it's underestimating saying that we have an owner that's a fund, or an owner that's private, doesn't mean quality. No, we need to assess the quality of each offer in order to make that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e430	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e435	I asked if the Prime Minister thinks it is a problem that tax havens are getting more and more income from Norwegian welfare, and she obviously doesn't. It's okay to register for people, because I think people in Norway disagree with that. But let's talk about quality, because what's happened on Erna Solberg's guard? Indeed, the use of exclusive measures for children — they live in isolation — has doubled between 2014 and 2018. The same actors who earn money from that development are involved in the decision-making process when children have to live in isolation. VG has revealed that in several cases it is recommended and pressed through that children should live in isolation — the most intrusive measure we have in child protection, which is, of course, sometimes right, but which is extremely important that there are professional assessments that decide, and nothing else. It is also the most expensive form of care and extremely lucrative for commercial operators. So the goat fits the oat sack. The Children’s Ombudsman has strongly criticised the use of exclusive measures. Will the Prime Minister listen to the Children's Ombudsman and reverse that development?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e444	Yes, this has already been done by the government and the council of Ropstad. We should use sole measures as much as possible, that is intrusive. One thing is that it's expensive, but it's also intrusive to children. Children should be given measures where they are with others. There must be very strong professional justifications and assessments to do this, and this must be absolutely necessary according to the needs of the child. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs has launched a review of the entire range of institutional child protection measures, including sole measures. It may provide a basis for assessing whether we need to make major changes in the way we make decisions, but also in the way we operate the protection of institutions for children, to ensure that we always, as I said at the outset, have the clear objective: if we bring a child out of a family, we have to make sure that we give it a better offer when the public has assumed responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e451	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e456	That's what I thought, and I'm glad the government will look critically at that practice. My point is that it's related to the first thing I asked about, because it shows a system failure that money interests get too much power over how we control our child protection. That's why it's a problem that big international capital gets into our child protection, it's a problem that market principles get too much power, and it's a problem if tax havens take over income from Norwegian child protection. The red-green government wanted to do something about it, wanted to stop the commercialisation of child protection, and therefore stopped the use of bids in the state child protection. Some of the first Erna Solberg did when she took over, was turning around on that policy. That is why, of course, the Prime Minister has a strong political responsibility for the development, the commercialisation that we have seen in the years to come. Why is it so important for Erna Solberg that the home of child-restraint children is to be offered?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e465	The most important thing for me is that we have the best possible offer for children. That's the most important thing, and that's who runs it. It's not that we don't have challenges in state-run child protection or municipal child protection. In fact, we have quite cross-border challenges in child protection. That's why we have a level of competence, which is why we're working on quality improvements. But we are also working on looking at the use of the private sector, for example. on more appropriate regulation of private actors in the protection of children. The proposal will be put to the consultation during the spring of 2020, with a view to legislative changes from 2022, so that we have even better legal frameworks for the use of private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e473	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e478	The simple principle that we believe should apply in the field of child protection and in fundamental welfare is that each crown granted for well-being should go to well-being. Each crown granted for the protection of children shall be granted child protection. Therefore, we should ban profit, and we should close this wide-open door to take tax dollars out of the country that we have been exposed to in child protection. I understand that the Prime Minister will not say that she is for that, but will the Prime Minister now do something to help us know how much money that really disappears out of Norwegian welfare, in private profit?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e485	I have another consideration of what's most important in child protection, than the representative Lightbaking now obviously says, that the most important thing is who runs it. I think the most important thing is the quality and the content. The important thing is that we take care of the children seriously. That we look at who gives us the best quality has to be the main focus. I understand that SV's main focus is who's driving. Our main focus is on your children. So we need to have a review and look at changes in the laws to regulate the private part of this, to make sure that we have transparency – we need to have transparency and transparency around where the money goes – and to ensure quality. But a lot of this is also about the fact that we have to be good when we get action, that we have enough action to take for the children, and that the measures are characterised by stability. That's why I think the most important thing to focus on in the future is actually the exercise of authority, how we sew the measures together, not who owns the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e492	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e497	We have human rights violations in child protection. In the new year 2019, the Prime Minister called for more success stories in the field of child protection. What we have is a doubling of the number of children who live isolated in exclusive measures. We have over 30 things in EMD. We have children who do not receive the necessary health care — the health care they are entitled to, and which it is a violation of human rights not to give them. We have more coercive cases than many other countries. We also have a tourover in the crew so that the children do not get continuity in their offers. We also have a grassroots movement called the #heians, which says they can deliver more success stories to the Prime Minister if they get more resources. Does the Prime Minister think that the government is spending the money on child protection right? And will the money benefit the children?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e504	I must be allowed to start with a few errors, I think, which were said in the question. Norway has no more coercive cases than other countries. The Council of Europe reviewed it and said that Norway is at about the same level as other countries. We're at the same level based on the last numbers we see, like our neighboring country. But we have some more conflict around some of these, especially with countries in Eastern Europe, which focus heavily on how we deal with this. These are often differences with regard to parental rights and children’s rights. Then we have some decisions in the EMD, which the government is going to follow closely to look at, among other things. that which has been one of the review themes of some of them: the right to co-exist with biological parents after taking care. Perhaps Norway is actually too poor and should become better and more systematic in this area. All of these things we get back to when we're done with this round of things that's been related to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e509	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e514	The centre party believes that child protection is little suitable for competition and market thinking, and we are concerned about the increase in the number of single purchases. Last year was 75 pst. of residence days in private commercial chains to single purchases, and that is certainly the closest thing we will put children on offer and to put a price tag on each individual child. In May 2018, the Stortinget government asked to secure long-term and ongoing agreements with ideal child protection actors. Today these players have 27 pst. of the institutional market, and it is a political requirement that this should be increased to 40 pst. by 2025, at the expense of commercial operators. But until now, we have not seen that the government has delivered in this area, despite the fact that the Christian People's Party has come into government. Can the Prime Minister do exactly what the government will do to increase the number of non-profit institutions serving households to 40 pst. By 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e523	Firstly, we agree that there are too many single purchases, too many single purchases. These are areas and developments that it is important to look at. This is one of the reasons why we also have a review of the institutional system in the area of child protection – to ensure that we have a child protection that is dimensioned to have a good enough range of services, which enables us to reduce both the use of exclusive measures and of single purchases. However, in some contexts, crisis measures will be a single purchase – sometimes it will be that a sudden stand there without a free space and must provide a reinforced foster home, provide an offer, because it is a child in crisis. And once again, the most important thing is that we make sure that children are taken good care of, and that we have a good total offer for it. Then we also work on the issues related to the public and private sector in relation to child protection. We also have a goal of turning the use from private commercial to commercial ideal suppliers. But we're not done with that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e530	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e535	Much has happened in Norwegian petroleum policy only since the New Year. Yesterday, two things happened at the same time: oil and energy minister Sylvi Listhaug announced with pleasure that 69 new search licenses are being awarded on a Norwegian base. At the same time, the news came that CO 2 can be a much more exciting greenhouse gas than initially assumed. Models to be included in the new UN main report now estimate that it is much more likely than before that we are on our way to 4 to 5 degree heating. This news has shaken many Northmen far into the margin. If these estimates prove to be correct, it may mean that the carbon budget for the 1.5 degree ambition has simply been exhausted. It could also mean that it is even more obvious that there is no room for more Norwegian oil and gas in the atmosphere. This gives the concept of ‘climate risk’ a completely different dimension. I would therefore challenge the Prime Minister with a thought experiment: how will the government deal with a scenario based on the fact that CO 2 is a more exciting greenhouse gas than previously assumed, as these new models have announced? For example, the Prime Minister will: consider suspending the granting of new exploration licences in the future if the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change actually concludes that the climate is much more sensitive and the carbon budgets are similarly less than we thought? If so, how long will the Prime Minister choose to keep the gas down while ignoring the flashing red lights?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e551	I believe there have also been many positive news about the oil, gas and climate issues this New Year. One was Equinor's grand plans for further electrification. The government is reviewing the power needs it will have in Norway and how we can deliver power from land, possibly in addition to the fact that the large point emissions from the petroleum industry can also be electrified. In addition, we opened Johan Sverdrup, who not only electrifies Johan Sverdrup, but also contributes to the future delivery of more electricity to neighbouring platforms, which means that emissions from production are falling. It is a fundamental principle of the Paris Agreement that we deal with emissions where the emissions are. I believe that is the basis of our climate policy. Our responsibility is to ensure that we reduce emissions in Norway, but of course also to contribute to solutions that bring emissions down globally. A unilateral stop in Norwegian oil and gas production will not contribute to a global reduction in emissions; it will help to shift revenues and the economy. In fact, it can help increase emissions if we assume that we want one of the lowest emissions in production itself. At the same time, we're going to work on the market that makes petroleum products more redundant or that we have cleaning technology, like CCS, in the future. Let's do it, for example. by fully stimulating the conversion of the transport sector, which will undermine the future economy of petroleum products. We do this by helping to establish and work with renewable energy, such as liquid wind and other alternatives used around the world. That's when the demand page we're focusing on to make this superfluous.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e562	I note that the Prime Minister is still in charge of greenwashing in Norway, as emissions still do not decrease significantly – and not close to what the Paris Agreement requires. At the NHO Annual Conference, the Prime Minister said very well, among others.‘I therefore believe we must say clearly that Norway’s policy is to support the Paris Agreement as it is designed’. The problem is that the world’s rich country, including Norway, does not follow up on reporting proper commitments. A new summary of today's commitments shows that we are heading for a warm-up of 3.2 degrees in 2100. The new information on increased climate sensitivity indicates that there may be talk of 4–5 degrees. Today, the Prime Minister stands and continues to defend oil efforts by referring to an agreement that governs against the fall. This is an extremely risky strategy. Even BlackRock, the world's largest investor, is now turning around. How long has the Prime Minister planned to continue to defend this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e571	The Paris Agreement is based on the basic principle that we deal with emissions where the emissions are. Relying on the basic principle, which we spent ten years negotiating, which would significantly change the burden-sharing around the world of what is responsible for emissions, would be a whole new principle and would probably not help us to keep up with what we have to do, the direction that is in the Paris Agreement, and the steps that are going forward. This is how the logic of the oil and gas industries can also be transferred to the car industry. That means that the countries that produce cars that have fossil fuels as fuel should then pay for the CO 2 emissions from these cars. Why is it the fuel that should be our responsibility, and not just the cars that produce? This is how you can look at shipping and everything else – if you move the logic of who really creates this. Therefore, emissions apply where they occur, and our responsibility for emissions is emissions during the production phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e581	Per Espen Stoknes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e586	I notice that the Prime Minister mentions actions that are taking place. Electric car, in the case of green shipping, in the case of Equinor’s new bets. Our point is that Norway's emissions still do not go down, even where they are going down, namely within our territories, under the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e591	Emissions have declined in Norway in the last three years, and they are likely to continue to decline as well. The estimates available are that the measures implemented before the year's budget will result in a decrease of 13 pst. until 2030. I think we agree that that is not enough. That is why I have also said that we need to bring down considerably. That's why there's going to be a new climate cure with measures for what we have to do to get it done. That means that we need to strengthen our instruments in the future. We agree that, in the future, we need to have a significant increase in emissions in Norway, but one of the interesting things is that emissions in the quota sector will decrease, which we were not necessarily sure of in the past, at least in the oil and gas sectors, based on what is now happening in relation to electrification.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e598	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e603	I would like to welcome Erna Solberg to the 20s. This weekend, Erna Solberg said that the 20's are going to be the Right Ten's. We'll see now. The last 20s were marked by the fact that the right of the last time was the largest party in Norway in major elections, and that the trade union movement got its political breakthrough in Norway. At that time, important industrial installations of great importance to our communities had been established – in Saudi, Odda, Høyanger. We built the country on electricity from the hydropower. The force is not any product. We are in a special position with a key industry built on low power prices. But in December, NVE's analysis of the NorthConnect power export cable came. It says that if they get a concession, the power companies become the winners, while the industry and the people are the losers. Our powerful industry provides a total of 12,000 jobs. If the price of power increases by up to 3 cents, as the NVE estimates, it means over 1 billion. in the case of increased costs to industry. It is the low energy cost of renewable hydropower that has been the decisive competitive advantage for Norway as an industrial nation for over a hundred years. Increased exports of Norwegian power and higher electricity prices from the EU and from England are at risk. In March 2018, Solberg said that the government’s decision on NorthConnect requires socio-economic profitability. NVE now says it's socio-economic plus, but increased power prices will make Norwegian industry and people the most losers. Will the government start this 20s by building the country further and make sure that most people don't get increased electricity bills? Or will the government start building NorthConnect in the '20s?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e614	NorthConnect is a government concessional matter. I have not intended to pre-conclusion or process NorthConnect in Stortinget, simply because we have administrative responsibility for dealing with a matter properly, except that we will follow the work in relation to the legislation we have. Societal economic profitability is one of the issues. Of course, we will also consider the impact on energy supplies in the future. But it's a very static world the representative is talking about. Because last year we had a small power loss in Norway and were a net importer. Then it was good that we had cables from other countries, and that we could pick up electricity from the other countries. In every single round we've had a power cable discussion – we're building two power cables now that we're almost done – we've always had this discussion that this will only increase the price. At the same time, however, this contributes to the development of more energy resources in Norway. The Nordic power market helps us to develop more power from our natural resources in Norway, simply because we see that we will have a surplus in Norway over time. But there's someone who wants to decrease and buy that profit, and that means that we're developing more. Then there's one thing that's important to all industrial companies, and there's a certain kind of stability in pricing. Power cables abroad have contributed to more stable prices. That means it's easier to look forward. All of the NVE's calculations show that if we hadn't had power cables, or had we had fewer of them, the prices would have gone up and down more. It's also an important part of this whole discussion. So the static picture that the representative Moxnes is living in, I don't think it's right. This doesn't mean that we're going to build NorthConnect, but it actually means that we can even out so that prices get more stable, is also a prerequisite for profitable investments and could count on it for the powerful industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e627	We have more than enough cables to import electricity if it's dry or little rain. So now we get two cables, Germany and England, which will increase the export capacity out of our country by 45 pst. On top of that, NorthConnect will come, and then we'll raise it up to 70 pst. more than we have today. Before, Solberg has told Stortinget that we're not going to wait with NorthConnect until we see the effects of these other cables, we're going to make decisions as planned. It has subsequently been created uncertainty about this, also by Erna Solberg himself on Facebook, while the Workers' Party says that they have been guaranteed that NorthConnect will not be granted a concession without this condition being fulfilled. Can Erna Solberg guarantee that no yes will be given to NorthConnect until there is experience with the two new cables for Germany and England, respectively – experiences we only get when the cables are finished and put into use?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e632	As I said, I'm not going to go into the concession treatment of NorthConnect or whatever's in it. We're doing the government's work. But it is clear that we take responsibility for seeing the whole of Norwegian energy supply. We need to see that we have enough power for other tasks in the country. Among other things, we need to: have the current update now from land to e.g. electrification of the cap to contribute to lower CO 2 emissions and other things. So all of those questions we want to look at and make sure in a concession round and treatment that's well enough mapped.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e643	There will be follow-up questions – Bears Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e648	So that's not a clear answer to the question. There was a clear answer to the question a year ago, when Solberg said that they would not wait to assess the impact of the two cables to Germany and England, respectively, before possibly saying yes to NorthConnect. There was something that also created a certain barricade in the Workers' Party, which said they had been given a guarantee that they would wait for the power of the cables before they might say yes to NorthConnect. Another consequence of building NorthConnect is that the network's going to increase by 0.4 cents. Over time, it will mean that households and industry will have to pay 15 billion. kr. In addition, there will be a reduction in trade revenue from Statenette’s international connections because some of the volume of trade is transferred to NorthConnect. State networks are currently using these revenues to reduce the rental network for Norwegian consumers. Is it right to allow an actor other than Statnet to build a foreign table and thus transfer the cost of lost income to the consumer in the form of increased network rental?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e655	The question of when and in what way, if any, Statnett will take over a cable, we will return to Stortinget – and what rules will be attached to it. First of all, I want to say that when you talk about NorthConnect, you talk like these are some terrible commercial organizations. So these are Norwegian municipalities. They are owned by the state and Norwegian municipalities, the companies behind them. They bring money back to Norwegian municipalities. It is money that goes to care for the elderly, it is money that goes to activities, to investments, to schools and everything like that. So you just have to remember it when it sounds like it's something terrible. Secondly, if we go back to the powerful industry: what we see as interesting is how many of the new wind power projects have signed agreements with the powerful industry, just to contribute to stable prices. Because then you know what the price is, in a completely different way from those who just move in the spot market, as our hydropower does – which helps predictability in the future. We're going to evaluate all of these pieces, and then we're going to make a final decision. But I can't pre-conclusion from Stortinget's pulpit about a concession treatment that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e666	Let's move on to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e671	Already in her first New Year's speech, the Prime Minister called on mentally ill people to seek help — a message she repeated this year, for natural reasons. But the reactions of people across the country have been that it is still difficult to get help when you first ask for it. For some it almost feels impossible. When the Right came into the government offices, they launched the so-called Golden Rule. The growth in the supply of mental health should be greater than the growth of other treatment services in hospitals. Unfortunately, the golden rule has faded. The growth in treatment provision for the physical diseases, i.e. somatic, is still five times greater than the growth in mental health care. Under the red-green government, mental health care received a higher percentage of growth in the sector without such a golden label. In the last six years, on the other hand, we have seen a reduction in daily services in psychiatry, a trend that has gone too far and that will not be better when the year's budget for hospitals is to be saved into the various health establishments. Will the Prime Minister listen to the many voices of the population – from both sick, relatives and professionals – and agree that we must stop the further reduction of the daily supply in psychiatry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e680	Let me start by saying that I have a lot of understanding that there are many people who react to that when we say that you have to ask for help, they feel that it is hard to get help. We cannot be satisfied with the offer we have today for people with mental illness. That is why I am glad that it is increasing — it is getting better, waiting time goes down for treatment, it is being built up in the primary health service. There are 2,500 more years of mental health and drug work in the last three years in the first line service in the municipal sector. My background to say that they have to ask for help is that while almost every woman who commits suicide in Norway has been in an aid offer or asked for help at some point, it is only half, or perhaps half, of the men who have asked for help. It's an important message for men to talk about their challenges. We cannot stop saying that they must contact someone. It is not just a question of investing in a daily space; it may be a much lower threshold than what is necessary. We can't actually do anything else, and I hope the representative agrees. In the specialist health service, daily measures have fallen completely since the 1970s. It's been a gradual decline. It has happened under all governments, and there has been a transition to more outpatient treatment, more help out. Fortunately, we have now been given the effectiveness of specialist health care, so that more of the time in psychiatric care than in the past is going to help patients. So we're dealing with more, and the waiting time goes down, despite the fact that there are more offers that have been reduced. How much daily staff we're going to have is of the things the Health Minister has said he's going to deal with the health companies, because it might be that we're approaching a level that's too low. Among other things, in childhood and youth psychiatry, the number of daily places has now increased slightly, precisely because there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e693	I thank you for your answer. In an effort to reach the golden rule, the government has also introduced input-driven funding. The Prime Minister was concerned about effective treatment in his response. Intervention-driven funding in psychiatry means that the number of consultations gives financial counting; it is the counting edges that decide. Such governance has produced results in other parts of the healthcare system, but there is a difference between depression and fractures. Professionals warn us that we will get more registration, more formwork and less professional judgement and good treatment. I get countless feedback from professionals in the sector that this removes the focus on the professional assessments and increases the focus on the economy. The really good examples of good treatment, e.g. The four-day treatment in Bergen, which is internationally recognised, will be a treatment that is not profitable with this funding model. Does the Prime Minister see that this type of funding does not provide good mental health services – or is it the efficiency that is a priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e704	Before I became prime minister, I was on the Health Committee, and one of the concerns we had at the time of mental health protection was that the great professionals we had met too few patients. They spent too little of their time on patient treatment and too much on other things. It's gone up, and that's good. I believe that as we now deal with more and waiting times have fallen, there is an indication that this is actually an improvement as well. Such changes also always create challenges when you have to work in a different way. We have also introduced the package sequences, and what we are working on in effort-driven financing now is a holistic patient process, which is to be funded in a different way. Going from unit-price financing to looking at the whole of a patient’s course could help modernise the way we finance it. At the same time, we need to be concerned that the great professionals we have, with a competence that is requested, spend most of our time meeting the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e713	There will be follow-up questions – Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e718	This must be simply due to a misunderstanding, because it is, of course, unit-price financing and counting edges introduced with effort-driven financing. Psychiatry has until recently been well funded, and the clear feedback from professionals is that good practice is now disappearing in the demand for economic profitability. Feedback comes from all health businesses in the country. In childhood and youth psychiatry, for example, loses the caregivers if they are out and meet the young people at school, in their natural environment, and cooperates with the accompanying relief measures. What is rewarded is a consultation at a hospital office. So here we have different descriptions of reality, the Prime Minister and I. I ask her to answer whether she believes this way of financing is based on the good practice that helps patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e727	It is important to remember that we have a two-part funding of healthcare in Norway. We have a basic funding, which is the largest part of it, and then we have a price finance on top of it. The single-price financing helps us to focus more on patients and helps us to spend time in a better way. And then we've said that we're working on new ways of calculating these price schemes for the future. We have also introduced the package sequences, on which we experience very good, positive feedback from the sector, which makes predictability better. Among other things, I have have attended Ålesund Hospital and met those working in the outpatient team there, and met patients – patients who say that after serious mental and suicide attempts they have been hospitalized and met with a psychologist once an hour, in very different environments than they are used to, but who are now receiving help at home, with home visits and closer follow-up. Models are also included in the new national health plan for treatment in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e737	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e742	It's nice to have a talk about how hospitals are funded; I think we have a good overview of that, both the Prime Minister and I. These package sequences require that you be allowed to work in the way that the patient responds best, and it is the professionals who develop the treatment. I think we agree on that, both the Prime Minister and I. But when the counterpoints that finance the department affect that practice, we're on wild roads. Is it really the right medicine in the current situation, to introduce new counting edges into a sector that still does not have the growth promised by the Prime Minister six years in a row?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e749	There's shorter waiting time, there's growth in the sector, there's more supply, there's new development of supply – there's a lot that's good. But it's too small in total. But this government has therefore prioritised higher growth in the hospital sector overall. We've increased the growth and activity in the hospital sector by 15.5 pst. in six years. So it's more than the red-green government managed to do in eight years. It also results in an increase in mental health care activity. So I think it's important that we work to become more effective in using our resources in mental health care, because one of the challenges is that there are little patient consultations, including in the institutions. We'll always look at negative aspects of ways we've designed schemes, because we're not in love with the individual areas, we're concerned with results. But I'm concerned that when we have resources that are so important, and that are needed so much, we have to make sure that we use them as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e756	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e770	Air ambulance services and ambulance flights are an important additional resource for the car and boat ambulance services. Especially in North Norway, this service is essential for people to receive the necessary healthcare. I am therefore looking very seriously at the sometimes weakened emergency situation that has occurred in the time before and after the operator change. I am not satisfied that the current aircraft ambulance operator Babcock has not yet delivered by appointment. I have explained and answered questions from committees and individual representatives on this matter in several ways. Furthermore, I had an oral explanation for the Stortinget on 15 May 2018, which I will come back to. I also had a written statement in the state budget that has been discussed recently. Here I explained the situation around the operator exchange on 1 July 2019 and the first time afterwards. After that, unfortunately, there have been new events that make it natural to give a new account of the Storting. It's been a difficult period. But it has been impressively mobilised both personnel and extra resources to find solutions that safeguard the security of the population. I would like to thank everyone who is on the verge of such extraordinary situations. The HF air ambulance service has overall responsibility for all air ambulance services in Norway — ambulance and ambulance helicopters. The entity is owned by the four regional health establishments, all of which are represented on the board of directors. The role of the Governing Board alternates between the owners. During the purchase process for ambulance aircraft, Health Mid-Norway was in charge of the board of directors. Now Health South-East has the board of directors and has been responsible for this during the period below and after the operator change. The HF air ambulance service follows up the aviation operating part by contracts with air carriers on a tender basis. Since the establishment of a national air ambulance service in 1988, under the then Harlem Brundtland administration, the service has been operated by private operators. This was also the case before 1988, when private airlines had so-called buyouts with the Rikstrygdeverket. The service has been offered at regular intervals — and under changing governments. The private carriers provide aeroplanes and helicopters with pilots, rescuers and technical services. The health personnel manning helicopters and aeroplanes are employed in the health establishment where the bases are located. And to be clear, at the last acquisition, there were no changes in these responsibilities. There was no new outsourcing in the sense that there was a shift of responsibility from public to private. The former operator of the air ambulance services was the commercial company Air Transport AS, owned by Knut Axel Ugland Holding AS. The contract with Babcock lasts for six years from 1 July 2019, with the possibility of a further extension of up to five years until 2030. The contract, when fulfilled, will help to increase the quality of service. There are new short-haul flights on all bases. These aeroplanes have better and more modern navigation and safety equipment as well as improved visibility in cold weather. The new aeroplanes have a medical device that allows for more specialised treatment. The contract also includes a medium-sized jet aeroplane stationed on the Gardermoen, which replaced a propeller plane under the previous contract. The jet plane can reach Svalbard and North Norway with a lot of equipment and more doctors and nurses on board. The contract also requires a rear guard crew that can be picked up in the event of sickness and absence. This is new and will improve the availability and preparedness of the service. But as I will come back to, there have been challenges to put in place this new rear guard system, and there have also been technical challenges with the new planes. There were a total of 367 requirements in the basis of competition, 272 of which were mandatory. These offers were ranked according to the remaining 95 requirements. In the evaluation of the offers, the award criteria were weighted by 60 pst, respectively. and 40 pst. All offers scored high on quality. Air transport AS’ offer was assessed to have the highest quality and therefore scored 10 out of 10 on quality, while Babcock’s winning offer scored 9.51 out of 10. The decisive thing was that Airtransport AS was significantly higher in price: they delivered an offer that cost 147 million. kr more annually than the contract at that time, while Babcock delivered an offer costing 100 million. kr more than the contract at that time. With effect from 1 July 2019, the expenditure of regional health enterprises on the air ambulance service has increased from approx. 400 to 500 million. kr per year. This does not include the costs associated with medical personnel with aviation nurses and doctors. The contract with Babcock was signed in the summer of 2017, with effect from 1 July 2019. As a result, the current operator Air Transport AS was responsible for the service until 30 June 2019. The two years from contract signing to operator switching were to be used to ensure a good transition between old and new operator. In the spring of 2018 there were negotiations between the Norwegian Flyer Federation and Babcock on a collective agreement for the pilots. Norwegian Flyerbund initially wanted a transfer of operations, where all the pilots could be employed in the new company under the same conditions as they had in Air Transport AS. However, the parties did not reach an agreement on a new tariff agreement and the negotiations collapsed on Friday 27 April 2018. On the night of 28 April, all ambulance aeroplanes were on the ground after a number of pilots reported ‘unfit for flight’. In the period thereafter, there was a reduction in ambulance standby during periods, especially in Finnmark. A number of measures were taken, including: two manned helicopters from the Defence in Finnmark, leased an additional aeroplane from future supplier Babcock and daily reporting. The crew at the AMK Central and the flight coordination centre in Tromsø were strengthened. Measures were also put in place to strengthen emergency preparedness locally and to strengthen the other ambulance services. Alternative ambulance resources were requested to be used when appropriate and possible. The availability of the available air ambulance resources was assessed on an ongoing basis, in line with practices established when emergency response is impaired during periods, e.g.: when bad weather makes it difficult to fly. Very shortly after the events of 28 April, several depositors and parties engaged in both the emergency situation and the dispute surrounding the negotiations. On 9 May 2018, Babcock sent a new offer to the Norwegian Führerverband, where all air transport AS pilots were offered a job in the company, as part of reopening the negotiations. On 9 May, Rødt’s representative proposal to cancel the contract with Babcock was submitted. I made my statement on the matter in Stortinget on 15 May 2018. Negotiations between the parties were resumed on 28 May. They agreed to have a break in the negotiations until 15 June. On 7 June 2018, Stortinget took the following request decisions: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that experience and competence in the current air ambulance service are continued, either through negotiations with the operator, through a new bidding round requiring a transfer of activities in accordance with the provisions of the Working Environment Act or by any other appropriate means.’; Norwegian Airlines Association and NHO Aviation, which negotiated on behalf of Babcock, resumed negotiations after the cases had been dealt with in Stortinget. On 20 June 2018, a collective agreement was reached. All of the ambulance pilots who worked with the then operator Air Transport AS were offered a job in Babcock. The agreement ensured that the pilots were given their posts as captain or co-pilot and at the same base as they had at Air Transport AS. Wages and conditions were also agreed upon. This agreement helped to improve the delivery capacity of Air Transport AS in the last year of their contract. In the case of aeronautical technicians and technical maintenance of the ambulance aeroplanes, Babcock and LT Tech AS did not agree on the purchase of maintenance services for the new ambulance aeroplanes. LT Tech AS was the company that sold maintenance services to, and also owned by, Airtransport AS. According to Babcock, the reason why the parties did not agree was that the offer from LT Tech would amount to several $10 million above other operators in the market during the contract period. It is common both in Norwegian and international aviation for airlines to purchase air maintenance externally. Babcock wanted primarily to buy services from LT Tech. As this did not result, Babcock invited the technical association to negotiations with LT Tech to offer the technicians employment in their company. This has been rejected by the association. Babcock entered into an intentional agreement in March 2019 with the Air Service Eggemoen on the day-to-day maintenance of the ambulance aeroplanes for a temporary period. Today, Babcock has its own technicians on the bases and works to establish its own technical organisation and hangs for heavy maintenance in Tromsø. From the summer of 2018 until 1 July 2019, the standby in the air ambulance service was stable. The operator switching in the Ambulance Aviation Service was carried out on 1 July 2019. Babcock then took over the airbases and the operations of the aeroplane, and with that responsibility for the emergency services of the ambulance. With the operator change, all the ambulance planes were replaced by new and more modern aeroplanes, and one of the propeller planes on the Gardermoen was replaced by a jet plane. 91 of the pilots in Air Transport AS changed employer to Babcock and secured it with the continuation of important operational competence. A transition to new contracts and a new operator will always be demanding in the air ambulance service. In 2009, the last time a new contract had been signed, it passed one year into the contract period before Air Transport AS had the new aircraft ready for use – despite the fact that the company itself was running the service until the start of a new contract. Preparedness this year was at 90.83 p.m., i.e. at the level we have seen in the autumn of 2019. At the time, Air Transport AS still had the old aeroplanes available and could use them in the service until the new aeroplanes were ready. Babcock, for its part, has access to several aircraft from its international operations, which have also been used. The HF Air ambulance service was aware that challenges could arise in connection with the transition to a new contract and not least to a new operator. To this end, thorough preparation was carried out and a plan was drawn up with a number of measures that could be put in place to ensure the necessary preparedness at a transitional stage. This work was carried out in conjunction with the clinical settings involved, inter alia. at the University Hospital of North Norway and with operator Babcock. Air transport AS had in its agreement an obligation to facilitate its termination in such a way that the preparedness was not impaired during the closing period and that any new operator was not prevented from fulfilling its obligations. The HF and Babcock air ambulance services wanted initially to make a gradual transition between operators, by requiring a new operator to take over a single base in the period before 1 July 2019. The aim was to make the process as flexible as possible and to reduce the risk associated with the transition. However, this was not done in cooperation between old and new operators. This made the transition problematic. In an evaluation, the HF air ambulance service identified this as an important improvement point in any subsequent acquisition. Before the pilots were able to enter normal service for Babcock, everyone had to undergo training and ‘check out’ with the instructor for the new aeroplane model they were going to put into service. However, air transport AS was unable to release pilots for training to the extent necessary. This contributed to the fact that Babcock was not given all his new employees the training they should have before the start of 1 July 2019. Therefore, Babcock deployed an additional self-crewed ambulance in the spring of 2019, where they assumed responsibility for the standby on different bases, so that pilots who were on duty could be sent on training. In addition, the pilots’ trade union sent a statement of concern to the Air Safety Authority about deficiencies in Babcock’s training arrangements and stopped training for two weeks. However, the Air Safety Authority did not support the concerns of the trade union. The training continued with some changes to meet the concerns of the pilots, but important weeks were lost in this time-critical phase of the project. 1 July 2019 only 30 pilots were trained, i.e. under a third. Extensive training therefore had to take place in the early stages of the operator change. This training was carried out at each shift during the first few weeks. As a result, ambulance aircraft were not in service for periods of time. Therefore, compensatory measures were needed to maintain a satisfactory level of emergency in the service. In order to ensure standby and sufficient capacity in July, Babcock deployed a Norwegian reserve aircraft with crew, a Swedish crew jet and a Swedish crew propeller and additional pilots. The nurses had Norwegian authorization. At the start-up the company also offered two technicians on each base and extended technical support at the head office in Tromsø. The pilots to fly the new jet plane had finished training when the operator change took place. This aircraft was therefore put on standby as early as the day before the takeover. As an additional reinforcement, the Air Ambulance Service hired HF in two jet aircraft with crew from other airlines in Norway and Denmark. In addition, crews at the Flycoordination Centre and the AMK Central Station in Tromsø were strengthened. During the entire start-up phase, daily status meetings were conducted with the hospitals in North Norway and the two medically coordinating points for the ambulance flight service in South Norway. In addition, the HF’s air ambulance service had a standby and an action plan in which several air ambulance resources could be deployed on short notice in the event of an unexpected need or situation. The July emergency figures showed that Babcock's delivery with its own regular aircraft was 69.86 p.m. Together with the additional measures that were put in place, the response was 96,6 pst. The main cause of early preparedness problems was, in addition to delayed pilot training, technical challenges. In the first few months after the operator change, a technical problem arose related to the navigation systems of the new aeroplanes. This error only resulted in the loss of about 600 hours of ambulance flight standby between August and October 2019. The error was subsequently resolved with the manufacturer. Neither the HF Air ambulance service nor I were satisfied with the level of preparedness provided by Babcock, nor was it in line with the contract concluded with the company. I had followed closely in the ministry all the way and visited the air ambulance base in Tromsø on 27 August. I met here, among others. health professionals who communicated concerns related to some technical challenges with aeroplanes. At the meeting, the HF air ambulance service informed that this was a matter that had already been addressed, and that it was working with the supplier of the aircraft with solutions. Emergency figures for Babcock’s regular ambulance aircraft in August and September were on the other side of 90 p.m. and thus not yet at a high enough level. On 3 October I therefore asked for a daily report from the HF Air ambulance service on the emergency situation. Here you will be reported on standby for the last 24 hours and on any expected withdrawals from the service for the next 24 hours. This is a report that has also been made available to everyone on the HF website. At the beginning of October, however, there were clear expectations that the emergency situation was improving. The technical failure of the navigation system was found and resolved and the training of all the pilots completed. It was therefore communicated both to Stortinget and in the media that we expected a clear improvement during October. In addition to October, it became clear that the lack of pilots persisted. In its offer, Babcock has committed itself to establishing a scheme of four pilots in reverse 24 hours a day, available to enter guards at all the country's bases 365 days a year. The pilots shall be able to activate within 60 minutes and reach any base within 4 hours. The scheme has not worked as intended. Babcock provided as mentioned all air transport AS pilots with a continuing job in the Ambulance Aviation Service. In the new work agreements, most pilots were allowed to maintain a permanent place of work. At Gardermoen, a propeller plane was replaced by a jet plane in the new contract. The jet plane requires a different skill from the pilots, and it was therefore set up with a new crew at take-off. This resulted in an excessive proportion of the short-haul pilots being contractually linked to the base of the Gardermoen. There were seven more pilots than the need for the Gardermo, while the bases in Kirkenes, Brønnøysund and Alta were missing seven pilots. A change in this required the negotiation of a new tariff agreement between Babcock and the air ambulance service pilots’ association. The negotiations on a new collective agreement started on 16 October, but were broken the next day. In parallel with this, Babcock carried out, among others: re-recruitment of pilots. Babcock operates as many aircraft as before, but with a larger number of pilots. The first weeks after the operator change were marked by these challenges of training and checking on the new aeroplanes. Gradually, it was also seen that there were challenges related to covering the watch plans on some bases in North Norway. This must be seen in conjunction with the agreement of the operator with the pilots on base ownership. When the emergency figures for October were clear and showed a readiness within the operator's responsibility at just over 90 p.m., I called HF and Health Nord to a meeting in the department on 4 November. The meeting included: the parties had not reached an agreement on a new tariff agreement. This was serious, especially considering that we went in winter to meet more severe weather and conditions in North Norway. The need for additional measures was clear. On 6 November, the Health Directorate requested helicopter assistance from the Defence Department. On 11 November, Babcock deployed an additional ambulance plane from Sweden in Finnmark with his own crew on his daily life. On November 17th, the Defender's helicopter was in place in Kirkenes to improve preparedness. On 7 November negotiations between the parties were resumed, and on 8 November it was known that a new tariff agreement had been negotiated between Babcock and the air ambulance service pilots’ association, subject to approval in a negative vote. The agreement was approved by the pilots in an initial vote on 22 November, with effect from 1 December. The new agreement has provided a solution to improve the disposal of the pilots between the East and North Norway, and agreed on changes that will ensure that the status of the city pilots can be more rapid to the bases where there is disease or other decay. The November emergency figures showed an improvement. Babcock delivered 91.6 pst. on a national basis with its regular ambulance aircraft. In total — including the Defence helicopter in Kirkenes — the response was delivered for the whole month 96.9 pst. If you only look at Troms and Finnmark, in the last half of November, there was a standby of well over 100 p.p., including the extra measures. In other words, preparedness was clearly higher than normal. At the beginning of December we met a new technical challenge that was dramatic for preparedness. On Friday, December 6, Babcock chose to ground five of his aeroplanes, four of which had the same problem in terms of flight safety. This was a technical problem which the pilots had experienced several times, and which we later understood arose the first time at the end of August. This was about the interaction between the engine and the propeller, resulting in short twists of the aeroplane during an approach. The first aircraft to experience this problem was returned to operation in the normal way after inspection and check. It is not uncommon for technical irregularities to occur on aeroplanes, and Babcock has an organisation approved to handle those types of events. The same error occurred on the same plane again at the end of October. Then the aircraft manufacturer and engine manufacturer were involved in the troubleshooting work. A message was sent to the HF Air Emergency Service that the aeroplane was decommissioned according to the applicable procedures. Several new incidents were reported from the end of October to the end of November. New corrective actions were implemented on the recommendation of the aeroplane manufacturer after each incident. Test flights were also conducted without recurrence of the event. Babcock’s decision to set down the four aeroplanes that had experienced ground irregularities on December 6th came after they learned that the recommended corrective actions had not produced the desired effect. At the same time, it was decided that the safety margins of the other aircraft should be raised, which meant that they had more stringent restrictions on the weather in which they could fly. Babcock notified the HF air ambulance service that evening of the exceptional situation that had arisen. The decision placed everyone in a difficult situation, but the safety of the crew and the passengers on the aeroplanes must always come first, regardless of whether the operator is public or private. And let me add: this could have happened whether the operator is public or private. In connection with the debate on the issue in Stortinget on 9 December, questions were asked when I was familiar with the problems that led to the planes in question being put on the ground. I had a meeting with the Air ambulance Service HF on November 4, 2019. In this meeting they briefed, inter alia: on various technical problems and status of the service. The problem in question was then referred to briefly as something that had already been handled. When the aeroplanes were put on the ground on December 6th, the emergency level was immediately reduced, and additional measures were taken. Before the event occurred, what was previously briefed about was already deploying extra resources from Babcock and the Defense. Babcock quickly made additional resources available, and the health regions and the air ambulance service HF mobilised aviation resources from commercial companies. JoinJet was in place with a jet in Norway on mission and standby from 10 December, and AMS/Airwing with a jet on standby from 12 December. My impression was that the service managed relatively quickly to raise the level of preparedness enough to provide a satisfactory service to the population. However, a solution was requested for the use of the former operator’s old aircraft in Tromsø. The previous operator Air Transport AS had four of its old aircraft standing in Tromsø. Managing Director Frank Wilhelmsen said, inter alia: to the NRK that these could be ‘in-air within days’. The Air Safety Authority expressed its opinion early and very clearly on this matter and considered that it would take months before Air Transport AS’ old aircraft could be put into service. It is important to stress that it is precisely the Air Safety Authority that approves and gives a clear signal for the use of aeroplanes. The supervisory position was consistent with that of the HF Air ambulance service on the time aspect of this case. Therefore, the HF air ambulance service concentrated on the measures that would give immediate effect. On December 10 and 11, I visited, among other things. municipal doctors in Finnmark and the emergency medical environment in Tromsø, and heard their experiences and the need for additional measures. On December 12th, it became known that the technical error that led to the four aircraft being put on the ground had been resolved. The aeroplanes were then gradually put into service again, without any weather restrictions. After a period when there had been a clear improvement in preparedness, the event that occurred on December 6th was a major setback. I have a great deal of understanding that this really created unrest and weakened confidence in the aviation ambulance service in the population and among health professionals. If such an event had occurred in a situation where you had had normal operations in the air ambulance service for a long time, I think we would have experienced this differently from what we did in a situation where for over a year and a half you had experienced more problems and had to deal with a wide range of compensatory measures. I would like to stress that this is not an optimal situation. Although the preparedness measured as a percentage has been broadly good, the many additional measures will contribute to a greater complexity for both health professionals, aviation coordination centres and AMK. They have to relate to different resources, such as: The defence helicopter, commercial jet aeroplanes and aeroplanes that cannot land on the runway network. This is demanding. In view of the situation, and the meetings in Finnmark and Troms, on 18 December I had a press conference in which I presented the following measures to ensure and increase the preparedness of the Air ambulance service in North Norway: Babcock has an extra dayplane Beech B250 in Finnmark stationed in Alta. It becomes gradually operational on the short track as pilots are trained. The aeroplane is included in the standby until Easter. The defence helicopter in Kirkenes is being extended until 15 January. In parallel with this, we are working on putting in place a helicopter for health care that can be in the Kirkenes during the winter. Based on the experience gained, Health Nord shall assess the need for a permanent regular ambulance helicopter in the Kirkenes. An additional jet aeroplane is continued until 5 January, with the possible exception of 24-25. of December. The health regions are assigned to place an additional jet aeroplane in Tromsø during the winter to relieve the short-haul aeroplanes in standby mode. During a meeting with the flight sickness nurses in Tromsø, it was found that the communication solution in the ambulance planes means that the nurses do not hear the dialogue between the pilots and the ground. They could do this with the previous operator. It makes the nurses prepared if there are changes to the flight. This was not part of the tender for a new operator and is therefore not installed in Babcock’s aeroplanes. The HF Air ambulance service is now ordering a solution to meet this need. Health Nord will review the intensive care provision at the Finnish Hospital Klinik Kirkenes to ensure that the clinic has resources and competence to treat respiratory patients that cannot be passed on. There is reason to believe that the 2008 decision to lower the hospital to a level 1 hospital is not being implemented. The HF Air Emergency Service will establish option agreements that will ensure even faster access to required Nordic aviation resources if a similar event to the one we experienced on the first weekend of December recurs. At the press conference, I was also able to inform you that the Health Authority will monitor whether the population has received and has access to adequate air ambulance services in North Norway. This is important for all parties in this case, so that a common objective view of the situation is given. I feel that the measures presented at the press conference on 18 December were well received by both the population and health professionals in North Norway. I believe that these are still important measures, both to ensure life and health, and also to restore the confidence of the population, which has, understandably, been weakened. Unfortunately, there was again an incident in Christmas that was perceived as a setback. On the second Christmas day, December 26, an outbreak of disease occurred at two fly ambulance bases in Finnmark – in Kirkenes and in Alta. It was immediately attempted to find replacements for the ill pilots, but it turned out to be difficult. There were many pilots who had to be replaced at the same time, and you also depended on that scheduled flights went to the bases. As is known, access to scheduled flights at Christmas is significantly restricted. Both Babcock and the HF Air ambulance service have plans for emergency situations. Babcock deployed two Swedish aeroplanes – one on the same day and another one on the following day. The defense helicopter in Kirkenes was already in place. The short-haul flights in Tromsø and Bodø were protected for necessary missions in North Norway, and then in particular Finnmark. On December 27, the standby was normalized again, and there were operational planes on all bases. The December standby for Babcock's regular ambulance aircraft was 90.3 p.m. With the extra measures that were put in, that is, Babcock's own extra resources, the aircraft hired by the HF Air ambulance service and the defense helicopter, they got ready for December at 110.7 pst. This means that in some periods of December there has been a higher capacity than planned. However, this figure does not show that, at the beginning of the two challenging periods of propeller problems and disease, there was a low preparedness in the time before the extra resources were mobilised. Of course, whether another operator would be able to deal with such a sudden failure in a better way will only be speculation. What we can see, however, is that on 26 December we again saw the benefits of the current operator being part of a major international activity that can quickly deploy resources from other countries. The measures I presented on December 18th have been followed up. On 3 January of this year, a joint enterprise meeting was held in which the four health regions were given a number of specific assignments in the extension of the press conference on 18 December. On 9 January, it became known that the Air ambulance Service (HF) has concluded agreements with Danish JoinJet and Norwegian AMS/Airwing to deliver aircraft standby from Tromsø until 5 April this year. Ambulance aircraft readiness for Svalbard and North Norway is thus strengthened until Easter. The government has decided to continue the assistance from the Defense with the helicopter in Kirkenes until 15 April, if the regional health companies do not find a solution with a civil helicopter before that. This assistance mission is in addition to military and other assistance missions assigned to the Bell of Defense 412 environment, respectively one helicopter on standby for assistance to the police from Bardufoss and two helicopters on standby for counter-terror assistance to the police from Rygge. Renewal of the Defence Assistance will result in some re-priorities of tasks assigned to the Air Force. One consequence is that the distribution of Bell 412 helicopters between Bardufoss and Back to strengthen the defense's ability to perform special operations, as the Stortinget has decided, cannot be completed until the assistance to Health North and the police in North Norway are completed. With such a high priority of readiness at the expense of training and exercise, there will also be a risk that there may be a lack of operational Bell 412 pilots. This, in turn, poses a risk that for periods of time, the defense will not be able to maintain all the required preparedness with Bell 412 for police assistance. Preparedness is about being prepared for the unexpected. There may be an increased risk that the helicopter assistance from the Defense to the police cannot be maintained in one hour. At the same time, the number of missions has been low in recent years and therefore the risk is considered acceptable. Police have established their own civil contracted helicopter capacity agreement to ensure police preparedness needs in North Norway from 1 May 2020. The government has concluded that this is a proper disposal. I would like to stress that we have given regional health companies the task of working to find a civil solution that can replace defence assistance as quickly as possible. The potential negative consequences of the disposal of the Defense Helo for health purposes in eastern Finland for the defence and the police show the importance of healthcare companies doing everything they can to find a different solution – even before 15 April. If they fail to do so, the government believes that the consideration of life and health makes it right that the defence helicopter is used for this purpose. I see that someone is now taking the order that one should not replace the Defender's helicopter even if this is possible, and I understand such a position if one sees it unilaterally from the health care side. But I think we also need to take into account the defence and the police's needs. That's why it's important that we do what we can to find another solution, while at the same time ensuring that the Finnmark population and health care are safe and secure that there is a helicopter in the Kirkenes until 15 April, either from the Defense Department or a proper civil solution. Finally, I would like to comment on some individual issues that have been raised in this matter: The first is the economic aspects of the en route extra measures and any economic shortening to Babcock. We are still in a situation where extra measures are put in place, and there is therefore no final economic overview. There is no explanation of the economic aspects of Babcock's failure to fulfil the contract, and we do not know the price tag of the measures I have asked the health regions to work to put in place. What is crucial to me now is simply to strengthen and secure people's air ambulance services and restore confidence in the service. The economic aspects come in different sequences, and the final sum will depend on several factors. Among other things, the offers made by operators wishing to provide services and, where appropriate, the settlement of the failure to provide standby from Babcock will affect the total. I would like to stress that it is not the hospitals in North Norway that pay for the extra measures. The additional costs shall be allocated initially among the regional health establishments by proportion of the holding. The owner is divided as follows: Health South-East owns 40 pst., and the other health regions, including Health Nord, own 20 pst. Each. On the part of the government, we have also said that we will look at the financing of the measures relating to the revised national budget. Another issue that many in this Chamber have been concerned with is the follow-up to the request decisions that have been taken in connection with this matter. All adopted on 7 June 2018 have been followed up. I will still comment on some of them. An expert group has been set up in line with the Storting decision to investigate the public/ideal operation of the air ambulance service. The expert group is already working well and has met many of the relevant stakeholders in this case. Their term of office shall include, inter alia: to look at several models for the operational operation of the air ambulance service, such as the current model with tenders, the model with public operation and the model with the operation of non-profit actors. Other models may also be considered. The advantages, disadvantages and risks of the different models shall be described, but they are free to recommend a model. The investigation shall be completed by the end of 2020. Several in this Chamber have considered that the mandate of the group of experts should be narrower, that only public operations should be carried out. In my opinion, this would be unwise and would not be in line with the investigation manual. The purpose of the study guide is to provide a good basis for decisions on state action, and then a key requirement is to assess the so-called zero option – in our context, the current model with a tender. Another mission within the mandate of the expert group is to review the experience of the operator exchange and describe the challenges of today’s organisation. This is also relevant in view of the Storting’s decision to evaluate the tendering process and to use the experience gained in the further process. I gave a new assignment on the evaluation of the tendering process to the health regions in a business meeting yesterday. I stressed here that work should discuss the extent to which the problems that have arisen in the service can be linked to the procurement process. Evaluation already carried out by the service itself shall be useful background material. The deadline for the evaluation is 15 September of this year. In Decision No 1/2000/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2000 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Norway on the ‘The Government is asked to ensure the proper operation and maintenance of the air ambulances at each base.’ The Committee stated here in connection with the examination of the last State budget: ‘The Committee considers that the current situation in the air ambulance service indicates that the decision has not been followed up, as it is regularly reported that the emergency response is impaired and that bases are temporarily out of service. The HF Air ambulance Service's letter to the Finnmark Medical Association dated 8 October 2019 states that Babcock Scandinavian AirAmbulance AS for August and September has delivered approx. 90 pst. [[Babcock]] standby with the normal aeroplanes. By comparison, the availability of ambulance aeroplanes was on average 93,55 pst. for the whole of 2018 and 95.97 pst. first half of 2019.’ This statement shows that this is a decision I am following up, and I will not let go of the roof until we have a stable operation with a satisfactory level of preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e965	The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open for a short comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e970	Once again, the Minister of Health must come to Stortinget to explain the air ambulance crisis. This winter the preparedness was so weakened that Health Nord chose to put crisis loss. We have known for a long time about the personnel problems associated with the transition to a new company and the lack of training of new pilots. It has thus been clear that the company is not able to deliver fully by the summer of 2020. At the top of this came the technical problems with new aircraft in November. Medical preparedness in the north must now be ensured through all available resources. Winter is hard in North Norway, and people's security must come first. The bidding regime gives a lot of uncertainty every time you change the operator, it is well known and well documented in previous investigations. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Health to ensure the service and to provide a framework that ensures the professionals who meet patients locally. This is where the Minister of Health and the Government have failed. Rapid access to emergency medicine shall operate irrespective of whether you are in Bergen or in Berlevåg. In Finnmark, where you have up to seven hours of driving to the nearest emergency room, we are particularly dependent on the air ambulance. Safety in the north is at stake when the hospital on wings – for that is what the air ambulance is – is not fully alert. Five months of impaired preparedness after the trust of the new operator to manage this service is, in fact, a failure statement for the government. When it has stormed at its worst, the health minister has had an understanding of the concern, and Erna Solberg actually said in the speech debate in the autumn: ‘There is thus better preparedness in the air ambulance service now than it was in the past because we have strengthened the air ambulance.’ It is completely opposite to the reality that ground professionals convey: lack of pilots, aeroplanes that cannot be put into service due to technical failure. Anyone who has engaged in this matter – health professionals, pilots and the Stortinget – has called out a strong warning without being heard. Why did the crisis have to escalate to a level of halved preparedness? Air doctors have resigned, and there have been serious patient stories before the government has now woken up. In addition, the extra bill for the measures to ensure the service is now sent to the hospitals and patients. We believe that the additional costs that have now been shifted to an already excessive hospital budget should be covered in the form of additional appropriations in the government's revised budget. Norwegian patients shall not be required to pay for the poor handling of the government. We in the Workers' Party are going to propose this if not the government itself. The working party is primarily concerned with the safe and sound implementation of all available exceptional measures. Where the emergency situation is adequately addressed, the next step should be to ensure that the non-functioning tendering regime is properly closed based on knowledge of risks. In 2018, the Storting requested the state operation of the service to be investigated, which was a unanimous decision. The group that the government has now set up, jobs, but here the Minister of Health has not allowed trade unions and health professionals to enter the community. The composition of the sample is also influenced by the fact that those responsible for this process, as we know the consequence, will still have a hand on the steering wheel. We are critical of that from the Labour Party. A state acquisition can take many forms, and we need a proper investigation and no hasty decisions. Finally, I would like to ask that the Minister of Health's statement be sent to the Health and Care Committee for further consideration. There are also other matters about this service.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e994	There is no doubt that the poor regularity since Air Transport lost its bid in the spring of 2018 has been a crisis for those patients who have not received the emergency medical offer they will have. In parts of this period, we have not been able to deliver the standard and quality we are going to deliver to our citizens. There are a number of areas of improvement that need to be corrected next time the contract is to be re-opened. It is necessary to evaluate the whole tendering process in order to define the improvement points. The Ministry of Health and Welfare, the health company Air ambulance service and the airline Babcock all have a major responsibility for the problems. At the same time, we must recognise that all three have put in place a series of measures to ensure the best transition possible. They have not fully succeeded, as we want and expect. I record that the opposition parties will nationalise the operation of Babcock's ambulance aircraft. To the VG, Jonas Gahr Støre says that the state will take over the air ambulance if he becomes prime minister. This is bad news for all those who do a good job in Norwegian Air ambulance. I guess the opposition parties will also nationalize the operation of the Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation, because that must be equal to the law. It is not logical for the State to take over ambulance aeroplanes but not ambulance helicopters. Both parts are part of the air ambulance health service, which Gahr Støre to the VG says he will nationalize. NLA is a good example of a private player that demonstrates the capacity for innovation and professional development, providing even better ambulance and prehospital services than the requirements of the State. If it were to end with the state taking over the air ambulance service, I believe it is illogical for the state to set up its own airline when the state is operating at the same time through the Defence. It would obviously create a conflict within a profession in the country if pilots of a State carrier were to have higher and better pay and working conditions than the pilots of the Defence. Ambulance pilots have a higher salary level and work fewer days than Defence pilots. Today, it is the Defence that operates the helicopters of the rescue services, which belong to the Ministry of Justice and Defence. It is equally natural for the defence to operate the remainder of the air ambulance service in order to enable the State to take over this service. The Council of State informed that an expert group was set up to investigate the public/ideal operation of the air ambulance service. I would therefore urge the Council of States to ensure that the expert group looks specifically at this potential conflict area. No matter what model the Stortinge adopts, it must be set by at least two to three years in order to organise a government offer. In addition, current operators should be notified well in advance that they are not allowed to continue their contracts. This time picture is so far that if the previous, red-green government actually believed that the air ambulance service should be state-owned, they would have had to start the preparation at the time of their own government. We have high public expectations, but it's not always the public that delivers the expected quality. Norwegian Air ambulance, NLA, won the ambulance contract on helicopter from Air Transport. That transition has not been given so much media publicity, but I have read the evaluation by Norsk Luftambulansse. There's a quote I want to share. I want to share it because this is a very serious experience NLA had with UNN, the University Hospital North Norway. It's important to share that experience, because we have to do what we can to avoid this happening again. The evaluation report states: The phase-in of new bases has been successful. We meet dedicated and positive crew everywhere. Nevertheless, we allow ourselves to point out special challenges at UN. Here, we have experienced a small welcome and cooperative attitude and an active use of media that has created unnecessary noise. This has been demanding and has necessitated close follow-up of the crew on guard. The situation has been dealt with both in the company’s ‘safety review board’ and in the board of directors. The message from the management has been ‘keep calm and carry on’, and it now looks as if the cooperation on guard is developing positively. We have seen this as a significant CRM challenge and something that we hope no one will experience again. A significant CRM challenge means in clear text that the activities of the UN were a direct threat to aviation safety. I really hope that the NLA reported the deviation to the Air Safety Authority, which has the operational responsibility for aviation safety in Norway. And I hope that UNN has tightened up their procedures so that they don't exercise this aviation safety risk to Babcock. The quotation also shows the responsibility of a number of external environments for aviation safety. Finally, I would like to stress that the inhabitants of Finnmark, Troms, Nordland and elsewhere with long distances really deserve a good and robust air ambulance preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1027	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a good and clear presentation. It is not to hide that the situation in which one landed before Christmas has been demanding, especially for those who live and live north of our country. I need to point out that in this case there have been many different actors who have had a political interest in Babcock not succeeding, and who have done exactly what they can to prevent it. It is a pity, as it should be in everyone's interest to ensure that the security and preparedness of our citizens are the best possible. In the spring of 2018 there were negotiations between the Norwegian Flyer Federation and Babcock on a collective agreement for the pilots. Norwegian Flyerbund wanted a transfer of operations in which all the pilots could be employed in the new company under the same conditions as they had in Air Transport AS. The parties did not agree on a new tariff agreement and the negotiations broke down on Friday 27 April 2018. Already the next day all the ambulance planes were on the ground after a number of pilots had signed up ‘unfit for flight’. In the following period, there were periods of specially reduced ambulance flight readiness in Finnmark. Thus, in that situation, Air Transport AS endangered the safety and safety of Finnmark residents. You can't have it like that – it was the situation long before Babcock took over the contract. There have been challenges related to preparedness over a longer period of time, but I am pleased that the Minister of Health has followed closely and well up. As the Minister of Health states in his statement, the government has decided to continue the assistance from the Defense with the helicopter in the Kirkenes until 15 April. In addition, it is important to stress that the Air ambulance service HF has concluded an agreement with Danish JoinJet and Norwegian AMS to deliver aircraft standby from Tromsø until 5 April this year. This means that preparedness for North Norway and Svalbard is considerably strengthened. The health region has also been entrusted with the task of considering the possibility of having jet aeroplanes stationed in Tromsø and a helicopter located in Kirkenes during the winter. Both jets and helicopters are already in place. In addition, Health Nord shall assess the need for a permanent ambulance helicopter in the Kirkenes. The Progress Party believes that the challenges we have seen in recent times are proof that there is just a need to have a permanent ambulance helicopter in the churches, and I guess Health Nord also means the same thing. All these measures show that the government has taken this issue seriously and that the safety and security of the Finnmark population has been taken seriously. It has been important for the Progress Party to get in place. The positive thing in this situation is that the government has now strengthened preparedness in East Finland. The Progress Party has been aware that this situation needs to be closely monitored and that action needs to be taken to ensure the security and preparedness of those living and living in Finnmark. I'm glad the government has delivered on it. Since the establishment of a national air ambulance service in 1988, under the then Brundtland administration, the service has been provided by private actors. The state has no experience in air ambulances, and the Progress Party sees no need to build a state-owned airline for aircraft and helicopters. We have several examples that the state is not a guarantee that things are going well. We've seen it in Trondheim, where there have been 26 000 crimes in the care of the elderly in public. In addition, there have recently been thousands of crimes in Oslo, also under public control. One might wonder how Jonas Gahr Støre in today's VG can be so sure in his statement that everything will be good just the state takes over. What coverage can you have to be so sure that a state-owned airline will never experience technical problems with the planes or medical report with the employees? You don't have to be a member of Mensa to understand that sickness and technical problems are no government control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1046	Thank you for your statement. She contained few admissions from the government that it should have been different in the matter. It shows the enormous risk, and the country's health preparedness has been put at risk. Measures that are mentioned are essentially about repairs. We don't know what extra costs the operator has incurred on the public, and the reason why it's very thin. Despite repeated warnings, numerous questions, hearings, previous distributions and representative proposals, the government and Minister of Health Höie have listened to themselves and their own in this matter. After a scandalous bidding process, things have gone well. All our warnings have been a reality. Babcock, the company that got the offer, didn't have the most command to fill the emergency obligations. It was a Swedish Babcock company that won the offer. It is a Norwegian Babcock company that is now carrying out the work, from 1 July 2019. Application for transfer of the agreement to the new company was approved in writing by the Luftambulancetenesta HF as late as 28 June 2019. So this company had neither an organisation, nor an ambulance aircraft at the time of the contract. This does not mention the Minister of Health in his statement. When the HF Air Ambulance Service assessed the offer from Babcock, they referred to it as follows: ‘The winning offer is ranked as No. Four on quality. This is mainly due to the fact that the offered standby is lowest with fewer pilots and fewer spare aircraft than competing offers. The price advantage more than outweighs the decrease in quality.’» Is the Minister of Health in agreement with this today, that the price advantage is more than offset by the decrease in quality? Both the Minister of Health, the Prime Minister and health professionals have in this case been faced with a lack of openness and misrepresentation of the actual situation, as the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister in the fall said that the preparedness of the air ambulance service had never been better, and when the Minister of Health said in the fall that there was no crisis in the air ambulance service, only the Central Party was concerned about the preparedness and used the case to obtain additional votes in the election campaign. When the professional community reports 286 unwanted events since Babcock took over the responsibility, we hear from the communications department that driving instead of flying, or the delay in getting there, is not serious enough to be called anomalies. This should be called an ‘events occurring’. All right. So the emergency crisis was a warning. The government ignored the Committee's advice on the risks of supply. They failed to provide advice on setting requirements for the transfer of assets. The government did not intervene and got to stop the situation as weaknesses in the supply process were known. The obligation to have a rear guard system in the contract has not been complied with. Still missing pilots according to contract. The centre party thinks the Stortinget now needs to have insight into the factual basis of Babcock's supply obligations, in order to be able to assess the quality of supply, i.e. the quality scoreboard, and the delivery progress plan, including the so-called gap analysis. The expert selection that Höie refers to in the distribution, which is intended to sort out public operations, is not independent. There were the two inhabile people attached to the Air Ambulance Service HF and Sjukehus purchasing HF. The social partners are not involved. Both the mandate and the composition of the selection need to be changed. And do we really need to sort out public operations? Is it not obvious that we do not tolerate this risk? Health regions have also been given the task of evaluating the supply process, sixteen years after the decision of the Stortinge. But the problem is that entrepreneurs have been assigned to evaluate themselves. The Central Party thinks we need an independent investigation. A current option is that the National Audit Office of its own initiative is involved. Health Minister Höie has argued throughout this process that the situation has not affected patients, although both the Finnmark Medical Association, the County Board of Troms and Finnmark and the Medical Association have warned. On its own initiative, the county doctor has now set up five air ambulance monitoring cases. It shall be investigated whether delays have led to medical consequences for patients. In one of the cases, the patient died. All in all, we believe that the Saga is a political scandal. There are still many questions that have not been answered, and I ask that the distribution be sent to the Committee for the ordinary committee procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1075	Now I have listened to the article of the Council of State, but I just have to link a few words to the articles that came from representatives Larsen and Bruun-Gundersen. So here we have a very serious situation for the people's preparedness, and then one of the opportunities is to talk about completely different things and make political play of it. Larsen made NLA his words his own and made very critical of the professionals at UNN, without having looked into the matter, without talking to them about that debt, he hasn't done anything about it, just make them their words and criticize them very much, and that for the helicopter service, which isn't what this case is all about – so as if this is a game. It's the impression one gets that there's a really distant activity a driving here on the Storting. The same thing with Bruun-Gundersen – I must say that I did not understand the Mensa equation, but it was openly meant to minimize and bring attention to something completely different. This case is serious. We have just been through a Christmas where events have been reported to the County Doctorate in Troms and Finnmark – serious events. In a few months we'll know if it's been dead because of a failure in that preparedness, and then we'll let ourselves run this kind of game. It's a chaos that's been presented in a rather monotonous way by the Minister of Health. Rarely have we heard it said in such a way. From a start of the bidding process, with operator switching, to now, this service has been in a running crisis. Of course, it has been an increased crisis when planes have had to stand on the ground, but it has been constantly in a crisis. It has affected the preparedness of the people. The questions we asked were not answered today. Many questions say: What are the economic consequences that the state is asking for a new operator not to comply with the contract? What are the consequences for health care professionals? We know that they have had to mannish because it is unlikely difficult to get this to hang together from health care professionals' side. What are the economic consequences for Babcock? In accordance with the agreement, they shall pay the additional costs here. We know that part of it is pushed over to the state. Why does Babcock have loops away from it? We have not got a full overview of real preparedness – with real preparedness, it is to understand to what extent the extra aircraft have been able to fly or land when they are rented in to cover failure. The question of stable helicopter service in East Finland is also completely open – are we going through a new supply process there? Is that what's going on? With a civil operator, or shall the State do so? Should we go through the same round that we've been through now, in East Finland? How has one thought about the composition of the expert selection – there have been criticisms from several quarters for the composition – so that one can get relevant professionals included, and that it is assessed whether people with strong ties to existing schemes should be involved? This would provide security in view of the assessments made by the expert selection. When are we going to get a real assessment of the supply process in general, not just the operator change, but the entire supply process, where one went beyond the recommendations of the experts on business transfer and yet chose the cheapest option? This is the story that we had a service that worked well, and now it doesn't. It would have been a better service if the supplier had complied with their contract – either it was the one, Babcock, or it was the other, Air Transport – but they have not delivered. It has become worse, and presumably it has become more expensive for the country. So one of the options was the one with the actor who didn't have any experience with this type of operation from the past, who had the fewer aircraft that didn't have pilots, when they were supposed to take over, not all of the pilots from the previous service, many of them disappeared to other places. It's an operating organisation that's been stretched, and we're in a situation that's supposedly going to continue and continue and continue. What disappoints me most about this arrangement is that the Council of State doesn't seem to have any plan. There's no plan for how to get this on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1090	The latest emergency response figures for the air ambulance service were recently published. The total readiness for December 2019 was 110 pst. For the second half of the year, including the measures taken by the government, it was 95 pst. The number is in contrast to the 83 pst. as the largest newspaper in the country was thought to be able to calculate, and which was also communicated by health professionals in the middle of work that both the operator and the government had to solve the challenges that arose in December. This brings me to the disaster rhetoric that has taken place in this matter, and that some representatives here follow up. ‘Stop this chaos before any one dies’, wrote Nordly at the head office on 9 December, suggesting that the Minister of Health had to take his hat and leave. And the opposition followed up here in Stortinget. Yes, the situation was serious during the harvest, and then the government has an obligation to follow up. The government has done that, and it's going to be hard to document something else. So what's a satisfactory preparedness? It may be difficult to answer, but let us compare it with the situation in 2008, 2009 and 2010 — also a difficult period for the air ambulance service in Norway. During this period, it became increasingly apparent that the aircraft used by air transport began to frighten. Standby was 86 p.m. in 2008 and at 87 p.m. in 2009, that's far below what we've been doing lately. This is therefore the case with air transport operations, to which the representative of Knag Fylkesnes refers. New aircraft that would have to be deployed in 2009 had to be postponed for an entire year and were not delivered until the summer of 2010. All of this happened without the red-green government lifting a finger, and the party organ Nordly did not sacrifice a fissile millimetre on the wretched preparedness even though the annual report from the Air Ambulance Service was clear at this point. On the contrary, Norwegian media were full of claims that Norway had the best air ambulance service in the world. The best air ambulance service in the world – yes, I fully agree with that, but over the last few years, the government has spent 100 million. kr more to improve this flight service, 25 pst. better in one year. Helicopter readiness has received a similar quality boost. And here we're going to sit in this room and witness that the Minister of Health is sagging down by the opposition to create chaos and endanger people's lives. That's right, what the Prime Minister has said: Ambulance preparedness has never been better in Norway. Worst of all – I regret to say that – was a statement by the representative Sandra Borch, who told Nordly that this was one of the biggest scandals in the Norwegian health system in modern times. Now the head of the Workers' Party will take over this service – set up an airline in state service and operate it itself. Can we be confident that he will handle such a task when his government neither identified the problems in the period 2008-2011 nor did it least to correct the real scandal that arose at that time, when the company Air Transport did not deliver? Can't the representative Gahr Støre see the irony in this? He is now tired of the mass of air ambulance services, I read. Yeah, so am I. I'm sorry we're dealing with an opposition that is deliberately running around in this hall with a broken rear-view mirror. I am tired of a level of debate that does not take on the work that both the civil service, Health Nord, LAT HF and the defence personnel have done in this difficult time. Both these and the Minister of Health have done a formidable job. And yes, on behalf of my own original field of expertise, the press, I'm sorry that our media has not captured the actual figures for the emergency response in the air ambulance service and assessed it in a historical perspective, that they have not checked the factual statements of some media in North Norway, and thus actually contributed to creating a highly-encumbered disaster mood. Finally, I would like to thank the doctors and the pilots who are now expressing themselves critically about the disaster atmosphere that has arisen. Finally, the population of North Norway can begin to form a realistic picture of the world’s best air ambulance service.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1107	It is absolutely right to praise both health professionals and those who stood on – not only for what they have said now, but also for how they stood on when the debate was actually about major challenges of preparedness. I would also like to thank the Minister of Health for a thorough presentation. We have all had a special attention on the ambulance aircraft standby after the operator change on 1 July 2019. Babcock then took over the airbase and the operations and thus the responsibility for the ambulance flight services. We got new, modern planes, but the transition turned out to be demanding. I also heard that the Minister of Health said that Babcock had not delivered by appointment. The HF and Babcock air ambulance services wanted initially to make a gradual transition between operators, by requiring a new operator to take over one base before 1 July 2019. However, it was not allowed to do so, and it posed challenges. Furthermore, there was a challenging situation in which Air Transport AS was unable to release the pilots for training at Babcock in the period before 1 July 2019, and this led to training having to be carried out after the operator change, which already required the imposition of compensatory measures. In addition, technical problems arose with the navigation systems of the new aeroplanes. Fortunately, the fault was solved with the manufacturer. When we hoped that the troubled situation would calm down, it was found that there was still a shortage of pilots, due to the challenges of agreeing on a new tariff agreement. Fortunately, this fell into place from December, and one got a better solution for the use of pilots between East and North Norway. So there was a new technical problem, the interaction between the engine and the propeller, and planes were put on the ground. The service mobilised additional measures and raised the level of preparedness, but the population and health professionals had now become very alarmed, even after many media plays that contributed to creating waves. On December 18th, the Council of State had a press conference in which he presented a series of measures to compensate for the insecurity of people. The Christmas peace came, but the outbreak of disease that hit the pilots during the holidays again caused the service to get a scratch in the paint. Fortunately, this situation was solved quite quickly. After this time, at least I am left with a strong impression that the Minister of Health has shown a great deal of responsibility. The state council has followed the case closely and the actors have had the patient in focus all the way and fortunately not been distracted by the opposition's personal attacks or attempts to re-combat private versus public operation of the ambulance aircraft standby. And as a representative of the government fraction on the Stortinget, I have been given weekly – and in periods of daily – updates on the situation and what kind of measures are being put in place, which, at least for me, shows a government council that has kept this in a very reliable way. We all agree that Babcock has not yet delivered under the agreement, and I support the Minister of Health's assessment of what is now most important, and it is to restore confidence in this service. This is, of course, done by ensuring that preparedness is both in accordance with the needs and with which agreement has been reached. Then a group of experts has been set up to review how this is organised, including, where appropriate, public/ideal operations. I hear the opposition has no confidence in the composition of this expert committee. However, I look forward to receiving a recommendation during 2020, or at least we have the opportunity to assess other ways to organise this if it turns out that today's model is not satisfactory. I look forward to it. As regards the examination of this statement, I have nothing against the statement being sent to the Committee. We already have two representative proposals relating to the Ambulance Aviation Service, so I support the statement being sent to the Committee for regular consideration there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1131	All these rounds of failure of availability, unrest, poorer offer to the people of the north, the whole crisis we have experienced in the service, we could have avoided. Had the Stortinget done as Red proposed in the spring of 2018, and cancelled the contract with Babcock, extended the contract with Air Transport and prepared a gradual and planned phase-in of the public service, we could have avoided these endless rounds of additional measures, with a crisis, with failure to fail. It's just sad to be able to say, what did we say? Bent Höie has accused the opposition of demanding public air ambulances for ideological reasons. If there's anything this crisis shows us, it's the government that has the ideological skyscrapers that don't take into account practical experience from the world of reality or the needs of the population, not least in North Norway. We know that this service is a crucial part of social protection and is crucial for the lives and health of the population whose acute illness occurs. Since Babcock's acquisition, there has not been a single month when they have delivered on the billion contract they have with the State. The day after the acquisition, the messages came that the standby was not good enough. In August, Babcock admitted that it had been too bad for a while, in September six aircraft were on the ground for a short or longer time, on 6 November the Health Minister finally admitted that there was not enough preparedness in the north, and in December five ambulances were on the ground. According to the Emergency Medical Communication Centre in Tromsø, there has been a significant increase in registered delays since Babcock took over. This is potentially very serious. In October Bent Höie said: "We are not satisfied with the readiness that has been delivered. We expect the supplier to solve the challenges that have arisen. On 18 December Bent Höie said that he expected Babcock to deliver in line with the agreement. It is not fulfilled either. We have to get an answer from the Minister of Health: what is going to happen if the State cancels the contract with a company that does not deliver what they are paid for in the contract? Once again, the public, the community, must step forward with additional measures now and until April. In the past, Höie has said that all the additional measures put in place to cover Babcock’s lack of preparedness will be recovered, but this month, it appears that Höie sends the bill for the additional measures to regional health businesses. It is not just a fail-safe statement for the use of bids in the Ambulance Aviation Service, it would compromise the normal functioning of hospitals. It may seem that the government will ensure that Babcock keeps its contract, costs what it costs, not least that patients get the bill. It is totally unacceptable in our view. Bent Höie now has to disapprove the prestige, listen to the employees and to the population in the north and start a necessary and gradual phase-in of the public health air ambulance service, such as the Medical Association, the Nurses' Association, the Führerverbundet and the Trade Union. They know, and we know, that this is a long-established crisis, that the emergency committee warned that the operator exchange upon the conclusion of new contracts breaks a good interaction that has been established between the operator and businesses over several years. They recommended ensuring that the planning and development of the service is included as an integral part of the healthcare provider's other ambulance services. This clear advice was put in a drawer by Bent Höie. He had the ideological skylights about the excellence of the tender system override the professional advice he received. We now need a clear answer as to how health companies will be able to pay the extra bill they have received, not least UNN, which will now cover almost a quarter of a billion dollars in addition to covering up additional measures because Babcock has not delivered. We must have a clear answer to that from Höie in today's meeting, we believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1148	I would like to thank you for the debate after the presentation. First, I would like to say that the representatives Toppe and Fylkesnes had a number of questions that they will find answers to when they read the explanation in peace and quiet, and possibly also read the answer I gave to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, and the other answers I have given to the representatives. I feel that there are no proposals that have been promoted or addressed, which would have any other impact on the emergency situation than the measures taken by health care and the government. On the contrary, I believe that Red and SV have consistently made proposals, which fortunately have been voted down, which had made the situation worse. There are many of the representatives who are concerned about the economy. There I have also been quite clear. There is no doubt that Babcock gets curtailments in its settlement when they do not deliver under contract, and that is completely in line with the contract. When I and the government have decided that we will have measures over the winter regardless of whether Babcock delivers or not, there is of course something we have to take the bill for. I have said that at first it is the regional health companies, based on ownership, who take that bill, but the government will assess it towards the revised budget. It's a very common way of doing this. Neither the government nor the Stortinget have daily budgetary procedures. We have that at fixed times. I expect the Stortinget does not believe that I should have just waited to decide on these measures until we submit the revised budget in May. Otherwise, many have been concerned about how this service should be operated in the future. We now have an investigation into this through an expert committee, which has a broad range of experience in this type of service both in Norway and in the Nordic region, as well as legal experience. I think it is wise to await the inquiry and recommendations of the Committee of Experts before taking the political discussion on which conclusions to draw. I think it is strange if the SV and the Workers' Party believe that it is in principle wrong to use tenders in this service for the purpose of standby, and then it means that only aircraft and not helicopters should be involved. I think very many in Norway will not necessarily support an idea that the air ambulance service, which has many support players across the country, will be wound up and become a public enterprise. It will be part of this discussion. Of course, I will continue to follow this very closely and consider whether there is a need for further action. What I have, and all the way, my main attention to, is to contribute to the best possible preparedness. I am fully aware that putting extra measures in place affects preparedness, but that it is still challenging for the service. The best thing for the service is to have the normal, planned standby. I fully understand that. Therefore, I hope we will get into a situation where we do not need it, but if that is necessary, we have extra measures and additional measures to put in place. That is what is important to ensure that the population is prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1165	The debate on the presentation has thus been concluded and the President will propose that the presentation by the Minister of Health of the situation in the air ambulance service be forwarded to the Health and Care Committee. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1179	Let me first on behalf of the Minister of Defence and thank myself for the opportunity to explain the tense and serious situation in the Middle East. The government has regularly consulted Storting’s bodies on both the situation and Norwegian efforts in the area. This dialogue has been important for government assessments and management. Let me also start by thanking and commending Norwegian civil and military personnel in the region. Under demanding conditions, they have taken care of their own safety and Norwegian interests with a high level of professionalism. The security of Norwegian citizens and our agents, both in defence and in embassies, is the government's first priority. The developments we have seen in Iraq and in the relationship between the United States and Iran over the past few weeks are very serious and worrying. It has an impact on the security situation in the region, on the nuclear agreement with Iran, on the ongoing fight against ISIL and on the framework of the international presence of forces in Iraq, including the Norwegian. The conflict between the United States and Iran is going back a long way. The Iranian revolution in 1979 dramatically changed the situation. There have been periods of convergence, but also many periods of escalation. The last year and a half since the United States withdrew from the nuclear agreement, the situation has escalated. We saw a gradual escalation through 2019, among others. with attacks on ships in the Gulf of Oman and the Hormuz Stradet, the shooting of an American drone and the missile attack on Saudi oil installations. There is still uncertainty about exactly who is behind several of these attacks, but they just as fully contributed to worsening the relationship between the United States and Iran. Over the past few weeks, developments have been dramatic and unpredictable. During an attack on the coalition forces at Kirkuk City in northern Iraq on December 27, an American citizen was killed. The United States then responded with a counterattack against the Iran-friendly militia Kata'ib Hezbollah, who was probably responsible for the attack at Kirkuk and the subsequent storming of the U.S. embassy in Baghdad on December 31st. On January 3, the United States carried out a drone attack at the airport in Baghdad. Among the killed were the head of the expedition corps of the Iranian Revolution Guard, Qasem Soleimani. The Vice-Chairman of the Iran-friendly militia Popular Mobility Forces, Abu Mahdi al-Mohandes, was also killed. On the night of 8 January, Iran responded with a missile attack on two bases in Iraq where coalition forces, including Norwegian forces, are present – in the Anbar region and in Erbil in the Kurdish regions. On the night of 8 January, a Ukrainian passenger plane was launched shortly after departure from the Tehran airport. Three days after admitting the Iranian authorities that the aircraft had been shot down by Iranian air protection by mistake. This is a terrible and deeply tragic event for everyone who was hit by it. All 176 on board were killed — most Iranians, but also many other nationalities. Iran has now invited affected countries to participate in the investigation. It is essential that the investigation becomes independent, thorough and transparent. In the last few days many Iranians have taken to the streets again with protests against the authorities, among others. due to secrecy of the facts of the shooting. The last time there were major demonstrations, in November, they were brutally turned down on, with hundreds killed. From the Norwegian side, we are clear to Iran that violence is totally unacceptable and that the right to free speech must be respected. We are following the situation closely in the future. General Soleimani was Iran's main military leader and one of the country's most popular people. He's been central to Iranian security policy for 40 years. He was held in his own population after decades of effort, first during the war against Iraq and later in the fight against ISIL. At the same time, he was absolutely crucial in developing Iran's strategy with support for armed groups outside the country's borders. These groups have contributed to increased instability in the region, in countries such as Iraq, Yemen, Lebanon and Syria. Very many have been killed as a consequence of this strategy, which he has been a main architect behind. The attack that killed Soleimani meant a significant escalation of the situation in Iraq, in the region and in the rest of the world. The Iranian attack on military bases in Iraq appears to be a calculated and calibrated response to the attack that killed Soleimania. The attack was carried out directly from Iran, and Iran took early responsibility for the attack. From Tehran, it was expressed at the same time that no further escalation was desired. As we now know, Iran has notified in advance of the attack via Iraqi authorities. The coalition forces were evacuated in time before the attack. The attack, as we know, did not lead to personal injury, either on Iraqis or coalition forces. Following the attacks, President Trump and Iranian leaders have expressed themselves in more conciliatory order. Many suggest that the immediate risk of a major conflict and direct confrontation between the two countries may have diminished. Both sides of the conflict clearly say that they do not want war. The relationship between them continues to be tense, and you have to be prepared for new laps of escalation to happen. Such an escalation may also come from Iranian-supported militias and other actors that are not under full state control – in Iran or elsewhere. We are concerned about the consequences of the tense situation for the countries of the region, not least Iraq. The civilian population in these countries, which in many cases are already under heavy pressure, are the ones who suffer the most when security deteriorates. With weakened security and a lower degree of authority control, ISIL-enhancing groups will also be able to strengthen themselves. I communicated our concern to Iraq's Secretary of State when I spoke to him last week. He expressed a deep concern that Iraq would again increasingly become the scene of majoractivisation and increased internal conflicts. That this does not happen is in everyone's interest. Together with allies, we have invested a lot to strengthen Iraq's ability to combat ISIL, an effort that has delivered results and contributed to stabilisation and an improved situation for the local population after years of conflict. This effort is threatened if the safety situation deteriorates again. From the Norwegian side, we have condemned the storm of the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, the attack on the coalition forces in Kirkuk and the last missile attacks on military bases where Norwegian personnel were also present. At the same time, we have expressed a deep concern at the serious escalation between the United States and Iran. In meetings with both the Iranian and the American embassies here in Oslo, the government has encouraged the parties to help calm down the situation and prevent it from escalating out of control. We keep in touch with allies and regional partners all the time. Meetings have been held both in NATO and in the coalition against ISIL, and the situation has been a central theme of my discussions with European colleagues in recent days. We are not familiar with the full background of the attack on Soleimani and have asked the United States for more information. I experience a concerted ally approach that needs to be calmed down and that solutions need to be found through negotiations. I am also pleased that there is a broad consensus in the coalition's core group that we need to continue our efforts towards ISIL as soon as the security situation allows, not least provided that the invitation from Iraqi authorities – which is the basis of international law for the coalition's presence – remains at hand. ISIL continues to pose a threat in Iraq and Syria, in the region and internationally. There is still a need to combat the group with a broad range of instruments, including military ones. The development of the last few weeks has affected the relationship between the international coalition forces and Iraq. It's unfortunate. Coalition forces play an important role in building Iraq's own capacity to combat ISIL, and in addition they support Iraq's forces with decisive capabilities. They are also involved, in some situations, in fighting ISIL directly. The coalition's strategy of cooperation with local authorities and groups has been successful. ISIL has been deprived of the land they held in Iraq and Syria. We have been working with the Iraqi government since 2014 to build capacity and support them in their fight against the terrorist group. Both the coalition and we have offered our further support in this demanding work. At the same time, we have been aware that the coalition's international legal basis for being present with military forces in Iraq is an invitation from Iraqi authorities. Of course, if this invitation were to fall off, we would respect it and withdraw our forces. Following the recent attacks, the Iraqi Parliament adopted a resolution asking the Iraqi Government to end the presence of foreign forces. Resolutions of Parliament do not necessarily constitute binding legislative acts. Kurdish representatives and a number of Sunni representatives in this House have the boycott vote. There is uncertainty about how this will be followed up by Iraqi authorities, by the Iraqi government. When I spoke to Iraq's Foreign Minister last week, he stressed that the country still needs international support to combat ISIL. At the same time, he expressed his gratitude for the assistance provided by Norway, both humanitarianly and through stabilisation and military capacity building. We are closely following the situation and are in close contact with the Iraqi authorities, the coalition, the Allies and the UN. We make our own and ongoing assessments of the basis for being present with military contributions in Iraq. As far as, and as the Minister for Defence will explain, the framework and needs for our presence are still present. Last Sunday, Iran announced its fifth action to reduce compliance with the nuclear agreement. Iran justifies the reduction in compliance with non-punitive measures. The agreement, concluded with the permanent members of the Security Council and Germany, contains a number of regulations to clarify the peaceful use of Iran’s nuclear programme. It is important both for regional stability and for the global non-proliferation regime. The government supports the work of maintaining the agreement. The five measures, which have been published at 60 days intervals, do not surprise this opinion. Iran considers that, overall, the measures remove all operational restrictions on uranium enrichment. The practical significance of Iran's reduced compliance remains to be seen. Although Iran has not left the nuclear agreement, developments are extremely worrying. France, the United Kingdom and Germany requested yesterday that the dispute resolution mechanism of the agreement be implemented. With this in mind, the European parties have formally followed up their concern that Iran is failing to fulfil its contractual obligations. The purpose of the mechanism is to clarify formal disagreements relating to the implementation of the agreement. The three parties to the agreement express the hope that it is possible to reach an agreement within the agreement. An essential part of the agreement is that it provides inspection access for the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA. This is necessary to ensure that the international community has independent transparency in Iran’s nuclear programme. Iran has stated that cooperation with the IAEA will continue. The IAEA reports regularly on the follow-up to the agreement. As a member of the Management Board of the IAEA, Norway is following developments closely. I also regularly address the non-compliance with the agreement directly with Iran. We have also noted the statement by Iran's President Rouhani today, referred to in the media, that European soldiers may be at risk if the dispute resolution mechanism is implemented from the E3 countries. If this is correctly reproduced, it is an unacceptable threat. Finally, I would like to stress that we are continuously assessing the tense situation and the consequences it has for Norwegian interests. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in close dialogue with Norwegian companies and with the Swedish Shipowners Association on the safety of Norwegian companies and Norwegian shipping in the area. The travel Council to Iran has also been exacerbated as a result of the conflicts. Security for Norwegian citizens, staff at our embassies and Norwegian military in the area, as mentioned earlier, is our top priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1243	Let me also thank you for the opportunity to come to Stortinget and explain the situation in the Middle East. As mentioned, night to January 8 several bases in Iraq were attacked by ballistic missiles fired from Iranian territory. Iranian authorities themselves have announced this. They have described the attack as the retribution of the American attack on January 3rd, which killed Major General Qasem Soleimani of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. Most missiles hit the Al-Assad base in western Iraq, where Norwegian military personnel are stationed as part of the coalition against ISIL. The defense initiated their plans to protect the personnel as soon as they were aware of the attack, and no Norwegian personnel were injured. Nor do we have information about the deaths or injuries of personnel from other coalition countries. The attack shows that Iran has developed a credible ability to target long-range military opponents and reiterates the need for a stepping down of the level of conflict and to promote a real negotiating path. The safety of Norwegian personnel is the highest priority of the government when deploying forces for international efforts. We have just as fully decided not to pull any personnel out of Al-Assad after the attack. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, our personnel are trained and equipped to ensure their own security in conflict areas. Secondly, our staff are part of the international coalition against ISIL, which has solid plans and resources to deal with such situations. Finally, we send a clear signal to Iraq that Norway is taking the mission of the anti-ISIL coalition in the greatest seriousness. Let me add that we have held back staff personnel who were going to Baghdad. Having said that, I would like to stress that there will always be a risk of military participation in international operations. This also applies to the greatest extent in Iraq. Therefore, we continue to follow the situation closely, in close consultation with the coalition, and we continue to make our own assessments relating to strength protection and possible evacuation. The situation is now calmer, following President Trump's speech on 8 January, but the tension between the United States and Iran exists, and the situation may change again at short notice. Let me say a little bit about Norway's military efforts in Iraq. We are there at the invitation of the government of the country. Norwegian personnel are part of the Inherent Resolution coalition operation. The objective of the coalition is to assist Iraqi security forces in their efforts to combat the ISIL terrorist organisation. The Norwegian contribution is today an army department to train and advise Iraqi partner departments in their fight against ISIL. The department consists of about 70 staff and rotates every six months. The coalition's support for Iraq has been very demanding, but it must also be said that it has made significant progress. In 2015 and 2016, ISIL controlled large parts of Iraq and Syria. The terrorist fields of ISIL caused enormous suffering to the population in the area and forced millions of people to flee, both internally, to neighbouring countries and to Europe. By the end of 2017, these areas were released from the territorial control of ISIL. The conflict was led by Iraqi security forces, but Iraq could not have done this alone. International military support has been necessary in the form of both air support, training, advice and ground support. Although ISIL is territorially switched, the organisation is still alive. ISIL is trying to regain control by frightening the population and weakening its authorities by terrorist attacks. Therefore, it is important to maintain the international presence. The coalition assesses the ongoing situation with a view to reducing the footprint in order to play a more withdrawn role and focuses on the longer-term capacity building of the security forces. Based on this, the Member States, including Norway, continuously adjust their contributions. NATO will also be able to play an important role here. NATO and Iraq decided in 2018 to set up a training commission specifically for long-term capacity building. Together with other Nordic and Baltic countries, Norway will support the Iraqi army in building an effective sanitary service. The government has a clear objective with our efforts in Iraq. Seeking a gradually smaller and more withdrawn role as Iraqi capacity is strengthened is the coalition exit strategy. But we can't now set any final end date for our engagement. As of today, we have decided to participate in 2020. The facility for the contribution and possible further participation must then be assessed on an ongoing basis in consultation with the coalition and Iraqi authorities and with regard to the safety situation. Of course, we note the debate in the Iraqi Parliament and the resolution that the country's government should withdraw the invitation to the international forces. It's still unclear what this ends with. As long as the Iraqi Government does not conclude with the opposite, the invitation and therefore the basis of international law for the presence of Norwegian forces in Iraq is in force. Although the coalition has now put much of the business on hold and focuses on its own security, no decision has been made to terminate the Inherent Resolution. The Government will continue to follow closely the situation and make continuous assessments relating to the safety of Norwegian forces and the further efforts in the coalition against ISIL:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1274	The President will now, under the authority of Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, open for a short comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final posts by its members.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1279	Unfortunately, the headline 'disturbing in the Middle East' is no news, but at the beginning of this new decade, the spiral of violence and the mutual escalation between the United States and Iran were about to come out of control. Fortunately, we see that the conflict is now calming down, but there may be more. It is in the interests of all countries that conflicts and conflicts of interest can be managed and resolved through negotiations and diplomacy, not by violence and the right of the strongest. But some enemies must actually meet with military power. The leaders of Al Qaida and ISIL were both killed in an American attack. Like Iran's top general Soleimani, both had a lot of blood on their hands, but bin Laden and al-Baghdadi were leaders of armed terrorist groups, they did not belong to states. Soleimani was considered Iran's second most important person. The liquidation of Soleimani sets a new and potentially dangerous standard. It is right to say from when our allies themselves contribute to escalating the level of conflict in the Middle East. Provided that the security of the Norwegian forces can be ensured, and that the Iraqi Government wants us there, the Workers' Party is to continue the Norwegian contribution in Iraq. Norway should focus on the tasks in which we have experience and are well-established militarily, in cooperation with key NATO allies. If we are to strengthen our contribution now, it should be in relation to the assignments we are already in the Middle East. The Norwegian forces are not in Iraq to wage war. They are there to enable Iraq's defence forces to keep control of their own country and prevent ISIL's terrorist powers and other militias from getting footholds again in Iraq. The cause of ISIL’s growth is linked to the Iraq invasion in 2003. Kjell Magne Bondevik later said that he had to ask cabinet questions in his own government to prevent Norway from participating. At that time, both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs from the Right wanted to participate. The party complained that Norway did not participate. In retrospect, I think we are all happy that Norway did not participate in that invasion. Because instability created a vacuum of power that arose after the US withdrew, and it gave ground for recruitment to ISIL. Iraq's own defence forces do not have the power to oppose ISIL. Some parties believe that Norway should not participate militarily in the Middle East. But when ISIL stood right outside the door of the Kurdish people in northern Iraq, they did not ask for hot blankets and support statements, they asked for military assistance. The Norwegian Telemark Battalion made a very solid effort to train the Kurdish forces. The Kurds of Iraq and Syria proved to be crucial in the fight against ISIL. It is unclear what the Progress Party believes about Norwegian soldiers in Iraq. Tybring-Gjedde believes that Norway should not participate militarily in the Middle East. But his party is actually for NATO membership. Then this party should take over NATO solidarity and what it's about. While we are experiencing the greatest security threat in the north here in Norway, the NATO countries are in the south occupied by the Middle East and North Africa terrorist threat. If we want the other NATO allies to stand up for what we experience as our greatest security threat, we also have to face them. In my opinion, the Norwegian soldiers deserve a clear response from the country's second largest government party: do they support or do they not support military participation in Iraq? Political double communication, in my opinion, is irresponsible, but extra irresponsible, I think, is about Norwegian forces abroad. With a rapid withdrawal, a new vacuum of power is at risk in this country. It can give room for different militias, and ISIL can get a new foothold. In fact, Norway has a long tradition of participating in the military to create stability for the civilian population. Right after World War II, Norway sent soldiers to the British son of Germany. At the time it was about setting up to get security guarantees back from the British. We wanted help in our northern seas and set up for them in Germany. Of course, we're always going to make our own assessments of what operations we're going to engage in, but for those of us who defend NATO, there are good reasons to set up both humanitarian and military. We're not doing the best we can alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1300	On the basis of the previous statement, from my colleague in the committee, I would say that one might well find better opportunities to lash out domestic competitors and participants behind the government than on such an important issue, which really does not distinguish the waters in assessing the seriousness of the Middle East. I would also like to start by thanking you for two thoughtful and wise posts, which are just turning on the tone that Stortinget in its broad generality also certainly shares, both the concern and the Norwegian approach to this. In my view, it was also wise for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to put the drone attack we witnessed at the beginning of the year into a larger context. The killing of personnel in Kirkuk and then the embassy storm is also to stay a little bit on, because it is actually Iran that orchestrates militia groups that challenge Iraq's own sovereignty and even give orders to Iraqi authorities to keep one kilometer away from the objects they consider to be storming. If we withdraw international law – and that should be done absolutely – we must also take into account the serious attacks on not only Norwegian military material, but also those in the country with an absolutely unquestionably solid mandate of international law, namely following an invitation from the recognised authorities of Iraq. Then one can discuss the wisdom of the drone attack itself, but there are still facts to consider whether this was a proportionate or disproportionate intervention in terms of international law. In fact, Article 51 of the United Nations Charter establishes the right and duty of States to self-defence, and it is also recognised that pre-emptive action can be taken to limit the damage, but it is therefore necessary that those who carry out these acts be able to prove in retrospect, on request, that they have been within international law. There's no reason to feel sentimental about Qasem Soleimani's sudden death. He has, through his work, orchestrated Iran's operation, which is about destabilising countries in the region. They have supported the Houti uprisings in Yemen, they have supported Assad also in his use of anti-international means of fighting, gas against their own civilian population, they have supported Hamas and Hezbollah, and they want to use Iraq as an operating base for Iranian domination from Euphrates to the Mediterranean. So that's also the context you have to remember when you evaluate these questions. With regard to what is now happening to the nuclear agreement, which is in fact still binding on those countries that have not notified of their withdrawal, I would say that it is also important for Iran to respond to the commitments they themselves have signed after this agreement and not to move towards a gradual breach. The concern is that the number of centrifuges is increasing beyond what has been agreed, that the enriched material measured in kilograms also goes beyond what is agreed, and not least on the degree of enrichment, which shortens the distance to developing a finished nuclear bomb. At this point, too, the agreement is broken. So it is important to maintain the agreements and the contractual structure that apply, and to follow up and support the requests and demands that have come from the European countries, primarily the United Kingdom, France and Germany. So this has many sides. The fact that Iran also spent so long before they admitted that they had shot down a civil passenger plane causes Iran to arouse memories of many of being a bandit state, and that's not what we need; we need serious states that can be agreed upon.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1315	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for the presentations. We've heard it sometimes now, but we get a little bit wiser every time. The American drone attack on Iranian general Soleimani on January 3 came as a surprise to most who claim to be experts on Middle East politics, and the media hung on. President Trump was usually described as unstable, and the action was referred to as an impulse action without prior analysis. General Soleimani was described, among others. by the NRK, as a war hero who was highly loved by the Iranians. Both of these claims have proved to be unwise and false. There is little doubt that President Trump knew what he was doing. The truth is that the liquidation of Soleimani, and not least Trump's repeated new threats to the Iranian regime, has contributed to the reduction of tension in the region – paradoxically, many experts claim. Unlike many former world leaders, Trump has shown that he does not come with empty threats. He does what he says he will do. Donald Trump is verbal and clear. He puts American interests first, and he acts on the economic interests and military strength of the United States – and he gets what he wants. In fact, Norway should be happy about this. Norway needs the United States as a strong military ally and as a strong economic partner. In a world where globalists are getting more and more influence, it is even presented as controversial that the American president puts America first, which should have been of course for a president elected by the American people. In the future, we should get used to American presidents putting the interests of the United States first. This does not mean, however, that this cannot be in Norway’s interest at the same time — rather, on the contrary. The United States is on the side of Western liberal democracies, the United States is fighting for the market economy, the United States is fighting pointless and market-destructive climate action, and the United States is, at the same time, our security guarantor through NATO. Norway and the world have a lot to thank the United States for. So to the second claim, that General Soleimani was highly loved by his people. Gradually, this has proved to be a truth with many modifications. Military attacks on a nation often lead to a common enemy being held together. That also happened in Iran. Several hundred thousand people met to follow Soleimani's stretcher to the grave, and many express strong feelings and anger over his death. But it turned out that too many people were feeling this feeling that wasn't very deep. For General Soleimani was not an innocent victim. Soleimani was considered the most powerful man of the Islamic Republic of Iran after Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Soleimani led the paramilitary Qud force. He was the mastermind of Iran's strategy for regional hegemony through the establishment of terrorist organisations outside Iran, among others. Hezbollah's missile program against Israel and the Houthi forces against Saudi Arabia. Soleimani's task was to fight the enemies of the revolution, in particular the United States, Israel and Sunni countries such as Saudi Arabia. The Qud team was particularly active in Lebanon, Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Afghanistan and the Gaza Strip. Soleimani led the Qud force in a series of terrorist attacks in the neighbourhoods, and he infiltrated terrorist networks and criminal networks all over the world. It's actually strange that Soleimani has been given the opportunity to spread his international terror message and his terrorist methods for so many years. The U.S. Revolutionary Guard has been branded as a terrorist organisation, and I have described it, I think, quite clearly. In other words, Soleimani was a terrorist. The U.S. drone attack was therefore completely in line with international law. It was a self-defense. It is to hope that the US's resolute action and uncompromising attitude towards Iran can lead to something positive in the long term. Iran is a nation with proud cultural traditions and deep historical roots. It is a freedom-loving people, an intellectual people, a people who through their many diaspora in the free world have shown the will and ability to create new lives for themselves and theirs. The exiles who have not enslaved Islam have been able to free themselves and embrace the liberal values of freedom. We can hope that the Iranians can get out of the trauma that the revolution of 1979 created, that the Iranians most take a settlement with the totalitarian Imam regime, and that Iran finds the way back to the community of civilisation – an Iran that scrapes all ambitions to develop nuclear weapons, an Iranian regime that takes the time to make the lives of the Iranians the most better. I must also make a comment to the representative Huitfeldt, who tried to make this a political debate and a simple debate. With regard to the presence of Norwegian military forces in Iraq, it is natural that this should be discussed in a NATO perspective. If you listen to what the American President has said, he said first in his election campaign before he was elected President, that the United States was going out of these senseless and eternal wars. At the same time, he has said that he wants Europe to have a stronger presence in the Middle East. It's not entirely related. Therefore, it is important that NATO, together, now sit down and look at what is the right strategy for the Middle East situation and what NATO should or should not contribute to it. But of course we should leave Iraq if Iraqi authorities do not want us there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1340	First, thank you to the Councils of State – the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence – for your briefing. It is a strength for Norway and for Stortinget that one can keep orientations like this in bulk. I would like to stress that we appreciate it. After a long period of tension between the United States and Iran, the United States went on January 3rd, as we must say, was an open conflict, through the killings, among others. Iranian General Qasem Soleimani. And Iran went to countermeasures on 8 January. I'm saying that it's right to put this into a broader context. Of course, everything has a history. At the same time, the U.S. imposed a completely different level of conflict. As far as I know, none of the allies of the United States were informed about the commitment, it's in itself problematic in an alliance. Trump claimed that the attack prevented the United States from losing four-five ambassadors, while Defense Minister Mark Esper said on Monday that he had seen no proof that Iran was planning to take four U.S. ambassadors. Trump and his administration often view Norway as a good ally and partner. That's good, because the United States is our most important ally. But then Trump should also have such great respect for Norway that we get insight into the results of the monitoring that led to the decision to take out Soleimani with others. I hope the Foreign Minister will come further in what she said one would work with, easy to get this on the table. I think it's important for trust between the United States and the European Allies. After the operation, Trump has asked NATO to play a greater role in Iran and Iraq. It is also a difficult question because the United States acted contrary to international law and without informing NATO. If Norway goes in more actively, it raises more questions. We see a movement of borders for how countries operate internationally. Saudi Arabia, Russia and the US operate with liquidation as a legitimate instrument. I would argue that the United States differs most, because it is a liberal democracy, a NATO ally and Norway's most important ally. The representative Tybring-Gjedde said in his post that Trump gets what he wants, and that is certainly right. The question is what direction it takes us all, because of course the actions of the major powers also affect us to a great extent. Norway is a small country that relies on international standards and rules to be maintained. What has now arisen can give us difficult evaluations. On the one hand, we will follow the United States as our most important ally. The United States will expect us to work with them, but how will it influence the legitimacy of Norwegian forces abroad in a larger image? As a small country, we have to comply with the rules that we want the great countries and the great powers to follow. It is a fundamental interest for Norway to maintain order and prevent the major powers from taking action. No matter what the government wants to land, Norway has to work hard to reverse the trend that seems to develop. If Norway and our allies do well to pull out their troops, as some countries have done, I – on the other hand – risk creating a vacuum in the region. It will be filled, probably by militias and other groups, and the situation that may arise may have fatal consequences for the international security situation, which is also not in our national interest. So it's heavy and difficult decisions government and the Storting has to do. I'm glad the government takes this seriously. I'm recording from what I said here, and what I've heard before, that you see how difficult this is. Professor Nouriel Roubini was called Dr. Doom after warning of the financial crisis in 2008 during the IMF annual meeting in 2006, two years before it happened. At the New Year Conference of the Skagen Foundations, he warns against investors seriously underestimating the danger of a military conflict between the United States and Iran, that it will escalate to war. I hope he's wrong. But there are serious tensions, and the Center Party will actively support the government's efforts to ensure that we get peace, not escalating to war.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1361	I would also like to begin by thanking the government for the presentation. We very much appreciate that the government has been so attentive given the desire of several parties on the Stortinget to have had an open debate. I think it's healthy, even though the voltage level is slightly lower this week than it was at the time we made the request. I think it is good that we are discussing this anyway, also because today's statements by President Rouhani, with threats to European soldiers, seem to stress that the danger of an escalation of war is not over. There are also statements that, like many other things right now, emphasize that the Iranian clergy are brutal and impossible to trust. I think it is important to start this debate by stressing our solidarity with the people who have now had the courage to walk in the streets of Iran and protest against the regime's lies about the shooting down of the plane, and all those who were brutally suppressed in Iran in the autumn when they demanded democracy, and in the same way our solidarity with people in Iraq who are, of course, afraid that their country will once again be the great victim of new conflicts in the Middle East. Then this is also a story about an American policy that is unpredictable and unwise, about the last chapter of a long story, where the United States has played the role of the elephant in the glass shop in the Middle East, where since the American invasion of Iraq in 2003, developments have been a continuous disaster that we are still struggling with the aftermath of. I want to challenge the state councils on a concrete issue today. I very much appreciate that the government has been so clear that for Norway it is of course essential that the invitation of the Iraqi authorities is at the root of the presence of Norwegian forces in Iraq. But it looks like the same principle doesn't apply to the United States. Before the weekend, we could read that the Iraqi Prime Minister had asked Minister Pompeo to send a delegation to Iraq to discuss the withdrawal of the American forces, as there may be many reasons why he does, there is a lot of confusion about the decision in the Iraqi Parliament. But anyway, the point is that the American answer was outrageous — a cross-fenced no to discuss it. It must be a concern for Norway, because we must know that the United States will deal with the same principle as we want, namely that there must be a clear Iraqi will at the bottom. That's why I want to hear what the government's view of the American rejection is. I expect Norway's response to be very clear, namely that if Iraq were to decide that a non-American force would want to be present, Norway believes that US forces must be withdrawn. Then I also appreciate that Norway has requested evidence of the reason for the US liquidation. But at the same time, I have to say that we believe that Norway could have been clearer and earlier out with the criticism of this. There is no need for evidence that General Soleimani was a person for whom there is no reason to sympathize, but there is reason to ask for evidence that this was a wise and necessary action. I record that very many American politicians are very clear in their criticism of this, while Norway has not been. We think that's a shame. I would also like to ask whether the government is now willing to support the demand made by the UN Special Rapporteur for extrajudicial executions, for an examination of the liquidation. The Special Rapporteur believes that this is necessary. At the same time, I would like to say that I hope – and I feel sure of that – that Norway will support the demands of Amnesty that the Iranian authorities now release anyone who is randomly imprisoned in protests, that they protect prisoners from abuse, and that the UN has access to Iranian prisons. SV believes that the Norwegian soldiers should be brought home from Iraq. It is not about the acute situation, but the acute situation illustrates what we have been saying all along, namely that the Middle East alliance is now unclear, and American policy is unpredictable. In that case, Norway should not have military presence in the region. It leaves us with a vague American policy, and it increases our risk of being involved in conflicts. Rather, we should give priority to our national defence and bring our soldiers home.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1376	I would also like to thank you for two very good statements, from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence. I agree with the representative, Tetzschner, who said: "This was a wise move, precisely because we are concerned about the situation we are now seeing in the Middle East." The conflict between the United States and Iran goes back decades, but it is clear that he has escalated, especially after the United States chose to withdraw from the nuclear agreements, and also with the events we have seen both in the last months and not least in the last weeks. I also think I would like to join what the Foreign Minister said about Soleimani, because it was a balanced description. It is a truth that he had a significant position in his own country, but also was behind actions that none of us would defend. I think that the basis of international law for this operation is not clear, and that's also what I heard from the Council of State. It was also a clear blasphemy: the obvious message is that we join our military operations as long as Iraq wants us to be there. I'm happy about that, because once you've gone out before, we've seen that it's created a vacuum of power. That is why I am also pleased with the birth of both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We must be honest about it and say that our military operations have just contributed to progress. ISIL, which is the worst terrorist organization in modern times, has become very weak precisely because of military cooperation. It must therefore continue, because even though ISIL is weak, it is also a significant danger today. My challenge is how we can now help to ensure that Iran does not have the opportunity to develop nuclear weapons. Because it is clear that the nuclear agreements are weak and, as the Foreign Minister also said, it is not surprising what Iran is doing. What are the European countries' answers? How can we now help Iran not to develop nuclear weapons? What I think is a common challenge to a question that we have to ask ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1390	In 2014, the Solberg government decided that Norway would participate in the US-led Operation Inherent Resolution in Iraq. Norway has about 70 soldiers in the country, who are now at great risk of being hit by the conflict that the United States triggered by killing an Iraqi and an Iranian officer on January 3rd this year. The attack was, moreover, declared illegal by the UN Special Rapporteur for extrajudicial executions. It was in its time the United States that by invading Iraq contributed to both IS and Al Qaeda having footholds in the Middle East and Iraq. The United States invaded, without a UN mandate, in violation of international law. They killed and tortured innocent people and destroyed civil infrastructure. Instead of putting the culprits in charge, the United States has in time persecuted, imprisoned and abused the alerts that are part of WikiLeaks, which have revealed these war crimes. So when Erna Solberg sent soldiers to Iraq, she knew that they would be under the leadership of a state that neither respects international law nor fundamental human rights. For a long time, the government has painted a rosy picture of the US-led operation in Iraq in which Norway participates. During the presentation to the Stortinget on 2 May 2018, Frank Bakke-Jensen boasted of the Iraqi forces with whom we cooperate: “They are the ones who have stood in front of ISIL, they are the ones who have lost their way to defeat ISIL, and they are the ones who have won their country back from the terrorists.” He also said, “It is a fundamental prerequisite that the effort should be to support Iraqi security forces under the control of the central authorities in their fight against ISIL.” So, on 3 January this year, the United States did not support the Iraqi security forces, but to liquidate one of the most important officers of the forces. The US attack was therefore also openly applauded by the ISIS, and not for no reason. One can be critical of, yes even a strong opponent of, foreign regimes military leaders without thereby supporting the liquidation of the same people. The attack also put Norwegian soldiers in great danger. According to American sources, it was almost a miracle that no one was killed in the Iranian attack on the American base where the Norwegian soldiers live. Frank Bakke-Jensen has also assured the Storting that the operation in Iraq should promote Iraq's democratic institutions, and in particular the Iraqi National Assembly was highlighted. There was also the boast that the coalition had avoided sparks with the inhabitants of Iraq. But the coalition leader in the United States probably has a slightly different opinion than what our country's defense minister, Frank Bakke-Jensen, has. Now the Iraqi People's Party and Prime Minister demand American forces to leave the country. The US response is thus to attack Iraq's independence and threaten to seize Iraq's oil revenues and destroy its economy. This means that central assumptions for Norwegian participation are broken and that Norwegian soldiers are in danger. The position of the Red is clear: we must get the Norwegian forces home. Soldiers are needed to defend Norway, not to risk their lives in a senseless conflict in Iraq provoked by the United States and in a spiral of the regime in Iraq. I'll ask you three questions at the end. Firstly, to Frank Bakke-Jensen: Is his basic premise to support Iraq's security forces complied with now that the United States has killed members of Iraqi security forces, including a central officer, for open applause from IS? Secondly, when the United States openly refuses to respond to the demand of Iraq's prime minister and elected assembly that the United States should leave Iraq and, instead, threaten to seize its oil revenues and destroy their economy, is compliance with the requirement to support Iraq's democracy? Finally, the United States obviously put Norwegian soldiers at risk with the attack on 3 January. According to VG, our soldiers didn't even have missile protection. The United States must have been aware of that. I want a clear answer: Did the United States notify the Norwegian forces in advance of the liquidation of Soleimani and the Iraqi officer, so that Norway could take precautions to protect our soldiers, or did they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1413	Again, I would like to thank you for the invitation to come here and keep this presentation. These are important debates for the Storting. Finally, I'm going to take a look at the main points. When we're out with forces, the safety of our personnel is our top priority. That is why we are sure that the personnel we have in Iraq are trained and equipped to maintain their own security in response to current threats. That is why we are also in close cooperation with the coalition on the mission we are on in Iraq, which has been invited by the Iraqi authorities, where the Norwegian soldiers participate in an international coalition of 70 nations in the fight against the ISIL terrorist movement. This has been essential for Iraqi forces to be able to combat ISIL territorially. When words are used in this room as "red roses" about the situation down there, I see it as quite disrespectful to the forces we have out there, and to the cooperation we have to help Iraqi forces. ISIL is territorially controlled, but it still poses a threat to terrorism. We continuously and in close contact with our cooperation partners in the international coalition assess the wider arrangement of the military effort down there – with one goal – and it is that Iraq itself should be able to gradually assume overall responsibility for the security of the country and its inhabitants. In a discussion about the situation down there, it's very simple -- it's really cheap points -- to put the conflict between the United States and Iran in the same pot as the coalition's fight against ISIL. We note the resolution adopted by the Iraqi Parliament on 5 January. Out of respect for Iraq's independence, we also have respect for their political process and for the fact that there is a constitution in Iraq that says that Parliament has one task and the government another, and we are now awaiting contact with the Iraqi government in this matter. If the Iraqi government withdraws the invitation, we've said we're withdrawing. We have not received those signals for the moment. For the moment, the coalition stands there simply because the fight against ISIL is not over. I believe that a good way to show that we distinguish between the conflict between Iran and the United States and the fight against ISIL is that we are clear that we are standing there in a coalition against ISIL. I notice the different recordings from the hall. I am very pleased that we largely agree that this is an important effort. Remember that this effort is the basis for humanitarian work, humanitarian aid and the possibility of raising this region to a slightly more stable level. That is why many nations are contributing, and a lot of resources are being deployed in this fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1430	I want to thank you for the recordings and the debate that have taken place. I also believe it is a strength that we have both the opportunity to consult the bodies of the Storting, such as the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, and at the same time can have open explanations and discussions of this kind. I think this is a question that matters and concerns many outside the storeroom. The fact that they can have the opportunity to listen and make an opinion about the debate, I think, is positive. So I just want to make a few brief comments -- that's probably what I'm raising -- relating to some of the questions that came. As far as the Iraqi Parliament is concerned, it is important to stress that no clear signals have yet been received from Iraq on what the decision is and how it should be followed up. There was a central point in my conversation with the Iraqi Minister for Foreign Affairs. This is the same picture that goes back to everyone else who has also had conversations. Of course, they now want to enter into a process where they are to define both what the decision involves and how it is to be followed up. But there was one very clear message, which was repeated several times, and which has also been repeated to several of my colleagues, and it concerned the need to continue the fight against ISIL. There is a very clear need for Iraq to see, because they are also very aware of the possibility of ISIL again having footholds in the region if you no longer fight. As the Minister of Defense quite rightly said, it is the invitation from Iraqi authorities that is our and the coalition's basis for international law to be present. Of course we're dealing with it, and there's no other signal than that the coalition also naturally relates to it. So to questions from the representative Light Hill, in particular related to Iran: I had yesterday a meeting with Amnesty about exactly the demonstrations and also the job Amnesty is now doing to try to identify how many have been killed or injured in connection with the demonstrations that were both before Christmas and that have now been resumed. There is one new element in the demonstrations that is now taking place, and that is that students also participate to a large extent. It's basically the first time in ten years that you see the students go to the streets that way. I expressed my very strong concern on November 21, when these demonstrations were on the rise, and not least I demanded that the Iranian authorities respect peaceful demonstrators, respect freedom of expression and freedom of demonstration. I believe it is important that we also bear in mind what has been two of our five recommendations to Iran in the hearings of the Human Rights Council, and it has been particularly important to have a safe space for civil society, not least for human rights defenders, and also to take care of and maintain the rights of those in prison, including the timely provision of health care. This is something that breaks daily, and we're deeply concerned about. That's why we've repeatedly brought these things up when we call Iran's ambassador to the U.D. It was also central issues when Foreign Minister Zarif was in Norway before Christmas. This is something we take up and we're going to keep recording. Both we and other allies have been in briefings both in the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs and in the Pentagon. We're doing this together with allies. And as I was in my introduction, the information that has come from the Americans has not yet been of such a nature that we or others have taken a stand on all aspects of the basis of the attack that killed Soleimani. We just don't have enough information to do that. So we keep asking for that information. We've done that, and so have others. To the request of the UN Special Rapporteur for Out-of-court Events, Agnes Kalamar: This is a Special Rapporteur who can make his own recommendations, it is part of the mandate, which is not necessarily UN recommendations. It is, however, part of the mandate. We have not yet taken a decision on the claim that has been made. We have not recorded that any other countries have either. But we record the discussions that are, and we follow these discussions closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1449	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over. The President will propose that the statements to the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Defence on the situation in the Middle East be recorded in the Minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1468	‘Training news has revealed that it is becoming increasingly common among teachers to pay for teaching material of their own pocket. It is pointed out that books are out of date and that the school has tight budgets, as well as a pressure on more exciting teaching facilities one does not have enough time to produce. Nursing must not include bandages at work. What does the Council of State think of this development, where more and more teachers themselves take the bill for teaching?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1475	The responsibility for the availability of equipment and teaching materials by schools and teachers is clearly placed with the school owner. I expect the school owners to follow up on this responsibility, and the schools to purchase the necessary material and teaching materials in line with the rules on public acquisitions. We are now making the biggest change in the school since the promise of knowledge. With the new curricula, we renew the content of the school so that students learn more by learning better. We know that the teaching methods have a great influence on how teachers interpret the curriculum and put it up for teaching. Therefore, it is important that schools also purchase and use educational materials adapted to the new curriculum. A total of 250 million have been allocated to the State budget for 2020. for printed and digital learning material. Of these funds, 170 million. DKK cover additional expenditure incurred by municipalities for the purchase of new teaching materials for the renewal of the profession. About 50 million. kr shall benefit from a separate grant scheme for the purchase of digital learning material. The new overall part of the curriculum underlines the value of the professional community at school. Teachers who jointly assess and plan the methods and materials they intend to use have a better basis for developing the quality of teaching. This requires a school management that facilitates cooperation and creates a culture of sharing and learning. Schools and teachers shall continue to have the freedom to choose which learning material, learning resources and teaching arrangements they wish to use. I basically think it is positive that teachers share teaching arrangements with each other. Schools and teachers with a culture to share can both save time and develop the quality of education. But, of course, it's not that teachers have to pay off their own pocket for material or teaching materials they need in teaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1486	I want to thank you for the answer, and then I want to challenge the Council of State even a little bit more on what he himself thinks about this development. I think it's serious, what teachers describe for Education News, that it's now become quite common for teachers to spend money from their own pocket to buy their own education. It is, of course, as I was concerned with the question, inappropriate for most other professional groups to have to put out themselves, from their own pocket, to do their job. We may agree that the main responsibility lies with the municipalities and school owners here. But I also want to challenge the Council of States whether there is anything we can do nationally to avoid this, and perhaps especially to reverse this trend, when it is now pointed out that this has become more common in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1493	Let me first stress that I think this is a distinction between teaching materials and teaching arrangements, which the representative also distinguishes. What I have understood from these articles is that this is largely a teaching arrangement. But it does not remove the fundamental question here, namely who is responsible, and I think we need to be clear that the responsibility for this lies with the school owner. It is the school owner who is responsible for the adequacy of teaching materials and good teaching practices that teachers can use. So I just want to point out that this is a responsibility that school owners have to take, and that is clearly also in the Education Act. I don't see the need to clarify any rules here, because the rules are clear – this is the school owner's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1500	It is at least one thing that we in Stortinget have a great responsibility for, and then I think about what the Council of State has been about, with the renewal of the trade union. I think some of the challenges pointed out in these articles will solve themselves by coming up with new curricula and therefore new teaching materials. But I still want to challenge the Council of States a little bit about whether one does enough to ensure that one can reverse this trend. This involves teaching materials and instructional arrangements, as pointed out in the article. Teachers pay for e.g. games such as a user for learning and the purchase of books, and with the renewal of the profession there will be a greater need for new purchases of books, digital learning material and teaching material. Has the Council assured itself that one will do enough to reverse this trend now with trade renewal and that one can reverse this trend?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1507	There's always going to be a question of doing enough, and it's definitely so that you can always do more. I think it is positive that there is innovation – both on the teaching material side and with teaching arrangements. While it is positive that different actors develop schemes that can be used in school, the teachers and the educational community are required to choose which teaching materials are to be used and which are also to choose the instructional arrangements, and then the school owner is to pay. I have strong faith that the innovation will contribute to innovation on the curriculum side, but also to better education in school. I want to be clear in my dialogue with school owners, and I hope that the representative will also be through his channels, that this is a responsibility that the school owner will take.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1519	More and more people die of suicide in Norway. In 2013, 556 people died of suicide. In 2018, the figure was increased to 674. In Sweden and Denmark, the figures fall, but not in Norway. At the same time as the Prime Minister encourages him to ask for help, many are in line and do not get help when they need it. I have the following questions: ‘6 years with the golden rule and good intentions for psychiatry have not helped. Still, the aftermaths and challenges of psychiatry are dramatic, and we are unable to provide the help that people need. Governments have been both angry and angry about the lack of follow-up – does he have any new, concrete and firm action to ensure that the desired policy is implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1528	The President would like to point out that the introduction was a bit long. Only the question to be put to the House. But the question was put, so councillor Bent Höie, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1533	First of all, I would like to say that I am extremely pleased that the representative Wilkinson is back, and I am pleased to continue the discussion with him. What the representative addresses is a huge and important question. Of course, I am not satisfied that the objectives we set when we introduced the action plan on suicide and self-harm in Norway have not been achieved and that we have not been able to achieve those results. Unfortunately, too many people commit suicide in Norway. So it's very important for me to say that we're going to be able to have a debate that gets very clear both that it's help to get, and that those in need of help have to ask for help – and there are many places to get help – while we have to admit that in this area too the help is not always good enough, and it's not always that we succeed. I am very concerned that we will continue to prioritise mental health, and so has the government in many areas. We have now had a growth of almost 2,500 years in the municipal mental health and alcohol work over the last three years, and this is the strongest growth we have had since the completion of the escalation plan in 2018. I am also concerned that we will continue to provide more help in specialised healthcare. Waiting times have also fallen. More people get help. Then I have been – and I am – very clear that I am not satisfied with the health regions' follow-up to the golden rule, but I think we would have been in a more difficult situation without the golden rule. I also see clear improvements in the follow-up of the Golden Rule by health regions. I can assure the representative Wilkinson that no one is on the board in the health regions, who has not had all the emotional outbursts that the representative explained in his question, as I have expressed my dissatisfaction in this area. We need to strengthen the supply of people with mental health challenges in Norway. I'm also worried about the evolution we see, that more and more young people are facing mental health challenges, not least girls, as also emerges from the latest HUNT study. This is also the reason why the Prime Minister in the New Year's Year told us about what the government has been doing, namely trying to gain more knowledge about the causes of this development, which unfortunately is not only a Norwegian phenomenon, but also an international phenomenon. Because we need to know more about the reasons for getting even better at preventing and creating good mental health in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1548	I asked for new and concrete grips. I did not get an answer. On Wednesday 8 January, the state councillor Bent Höie and I were on the campaign against suicide. A strong woman, Heidi Tårnes, told of her 17 - year - old daughter who died by suicide. She gave us the task of strengthening mental and psychiatric health protection and providing more daily places for those who have suicidal thoughts. Bent Höie said yesterday that many people who work with mental health believe that the reduction of daily places has taken place too quickly, and that there is a need to stop. Will Bent Höie stop the decline in the number of daily places in mental health protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1555	I think that in my previous answer, I came up with both a number of new measures and, not least, a strengthening of measures that we have already taken to continue to strengthen the supply of mental health protection – but of course the list can be made even longer. As the representative Wilkinson is involved, I have also given a mission to the Health Directorate and the Health Regions to look at where we need to further strengthen our capacity, including daily places in the field of mental health protection. When I do not want to share an idea that we are now going to stop all changes in mental health, it is simply because we are still using more daily places in Norway than in comparable countries, and there may be areas in Norway where it will be that those with mental health challenges will be able to get better help by providing more daily treatment instead of daily treatment locally. Daily treatment is not always the answer to the challenges for those with mental health challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1562	Monitoring is good, but it's not helpful for people who need it. I've talked to more people who work in healthcare. They say that they and their colleagues get it busier now, but the crew is cut to a minimum. They say it gets worse and worse. They also say it's becoming more common when employees are ill, that institutions don't get temporary workers. Does the Council acknowledge that the economy of mental and psychiatric institutions is so tight that it goes beyond the offer of sick people? And how will he ensure that these institutions are properly staffed when employees are ill?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1569	I acknowledge, and have said several times, that I understand that those who work in mental health experience a more hectic everyday life – even though we have strengthened the offer. These include: that there are more people in need of help, and we are also in the middle of a very high-quality mental health promise by now introducing a package for mental health, both for children and young people and for adults. This will significantly improve the supply. I know that it is very laborious for those who work in the service, but we also get very clear feedback that this involves a quality improvement, more predictability for patients, clearer involvement of patients and systematic feedback from patients on the effectiveness of the treatment. There is no doubt that this field also needs a quality promise, so that we ensure that we give the help that helps, to the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1577	‘23. October 2018, the Environment Directorate rejected the request from the Smälenes Newspaper for access to the Hunter Register. However, in December 2019 such transparency was provided by the Ministry of Climate and Environment as the Board of Appeal. Why did the Ministry choose to review the decision of the Environment Directorate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1584	The representative Myhrvold points out that the Environment Directorate rejected an application from the Smälen Newspaper for transparency in the Hunters' Register on 23 October 2018 and that the Ministry of Climate and Environment, as the Board of Appeal, gave transparency in December 2019. I must first stress that the Ministry of Climate and Environment has not been the Board of Appeal in this matter and that we have not instructed the Directorate of the Environment. The Environment Directorate received a complaint against its original rejection in October 2018. The Directorate found that there was no basis for exempting information from public disclosure and converted its own decision in December 2019. Such requests for access are assessed by public law and any other relevant laws. The general rule is that file documents, records and similar records are open to transparency. In this case, the Environment Directorate assessed Section 9, which states that everyone can require transparency in a compilation of data stored electronically in the databases of the body. However, the compilation must be possible with simple procedures. The Directorate has previously assessed that such a compilation cannot be made easily, but after contact with the Brønnøysund Registers, which operates the Hunter Register, the Directorate has now come to the conclusion that a compilation can be made easily. Therefore, there is no longer any basis for exempting the information from transparency. The Directorate-General for the Environment has also assessed the third paragraph of Section 24 of the Public Act, which provides for derogations from the general rule on transparency, inter alia. whose transparency will facilitate the conduct of criminal offences or endanger individuals. The Executive Board’s assessment included: that there will always be a certain risk that registered hunters may be exposed to criminal acts such as threats, but that this hazard was not at such a level that transparency can be denied. The Directorate also considered that there was little danger that information could be used as a basis for targeted thefts of hunting weapons. The Directorate here stressed that there are a high number of registered hunters and license hunters, and that there is a requirement under the Arms Act for the safe storage of weapons. Publication has generated reactions, and I have respect for hunters being able to perceive it as burdensome. However, the right of access to public activities is a fundamental democratic principle. Licensing of wolves is the exercise of a legitimate business and transparency is important in order to publicise and ensure confidence in that arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1607	In any case, there is no doubt that over a year, the Environment Directorate has done a 180-degree reverse — from refusing transparency to provide transparency, and you can ask what has gone wrong in bureaucratic error. - But leave it alone. What we know is that this government spends millions of dollars on anti-conflict measures in the predatory zone, because this is a topic that many people are involved in, and we know that the level of conflict is high. At the same time, the government by publishing personal information from the Hunters Registry helps, as I see it, to raise the level of conflict by making ordinary people simple victims of the sheiks and threats. According to the Council of State, the Directorate has assessed that there is a certain risk of threats, but not at a level of transparency. At the same time, we hear about children of hunters who receive cynical text messages. Hunters are harassed and threatened in social media. Where does the Government and the Council of State consider the boundary to go before it can actually be denied transparency under the Public Service Act § 24?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1614	It has to follow the law and, as has been said, the ministry has not been involved at all in the assessments carried out by the Environment Directorate. The director himself has made an assessment. The rejection in the first round came because it was thought that something could be done because it was difficult to compile the information that was requested. But after contacting the Brønn Island Health Register, it was found that it would not be the same difficulty to do so. That is why there was no basis for exempting information. So it's public law that has to set those limits, and in an open democratic society, if there's no separate reason to exempt information, they have to be public -- so in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1619	The Public Service Act has a section 24 that sets certain limits. Now the Council of State says that it is considered that § 24 does not apply because there is only a ‘certain danger’ of threats, shikes and other considerations that can be taken after that paragraph. On the other hand, when you register as a licensee, it is not stated that this is public information. It is common today, for example. in the case of a normal request for construction to the municipalities that a notification is returned that this may be the subject of public access. It might also have been for this type of business. Has the State Council ensured that a thorough impact assessment was carried out under the provisions of the Data Storage Directive, or is the publication within the current concession provisions of the Hunter Registry for the processing of personal data? Is it such that the Council of State also believes that the rest of the Hunter Register is really public, and that those who are registered there may risk having their name published?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1624	As I have said, the ministry has not been involved in this decision. It is the Environment Directorate that has taken, and they have done so on the basis of the law that we have, a law that builds up under the fact that we are going to be a country with great accessibility, with publicity. There must be a separate reason why you should not have a publication. As also mentioned, and as I explained, the Directorate for the Environment has carried out an assessment under the third paragraph of Section 24, which may allow derogations from the general rule of transparency. It's a general rule of transparency. They have assessed that the information provided here, within what is a legitimate activity – being a hunter and in a hunter's register – does not in itself provide any basis for exempting it from public disclosure. So I think the assessment they've made is consistent with the law that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1634	I've realized that you're going to go straight to the question, so I'm going to do it and ask the Council of State to document to what extent Norwegian research appropriations are going to solve the most pressing climate challenges, and to explain how much is being allocated to social science research related to preventing climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1639	The president just has to make it clear that it's what's submitted, that one's going to read out, and there's a part there, so if the representative Sandberg wants to bring it too, it's quite possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1644	I don't think that's necessary. Thank you. The question submitted is as follows: ‘A new survey carried out by, inter alia, the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy shows that a small proportion of the global research resources are going to solve the greatest challenge of our time, climate change. In addition, one of the researchers behind the study concludes that the main unresolved issues cannot be solved by natural sciences but are societal science. Can the Council of State document the extent to which Norwegian research appropriations are used to address the most urgent climate challenges and explain how much is allocated to social science research related to preventing climate change?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1656	I have read the question asked by the representative Sandberg, so I hope I can give a good answer. In the government’s long-term plan for research and higher education, climate, environment and environmentally friendly energy is one of five long-term priorities. The long-term plan states that the government will strengthen research and higher education that contributes to a better understanding of climate change and provides the basis for successful climate adaptation. Societal science and humanistic research are central to it. The representative Sandberg points out that the researchers behind the NUPI survey say that the biggest unresolved issues cannot be solved by science, but are societal science. I would rather have formulated it this way: the greatest unresolved questions cannot be solved by science alone. What characterises major, complex societal challenges is that they — at least this — are multidisciplinary in nature. They cannot be solved only within a single field but must be resolved in cooperation between several disciplines and in cooperation between academia, society and industry. This is what also underpins government policies in the long-term plan for research and higher education. In 2018, the Research Council granted approximately 2.1 billion. kr to the area climate, environment and environmentally friendly energy. It includes research related to the development of renewable and environmentally friendly energy, research on climate systems, climate impacts and adaptation, but also environmental research in a broad sense. About 20 pst. the total appropriations allocated to this area by the Research Council. Between 2013 and 2018, the share of social sciences in the total portfolio in those areas is around 10 p.p., i.e. That's two hundred thirty-three million. kr in 2018. There is a lot of good work to do in this area, and finally I want to draw up two examples. Firstly, within the Eco-Energy Research Centres scheme, or the FME, earmarked funds are available for social science centres. We've seen good results here. In the years following the establishment of the first social science centres, social science research has become more visible, user involvement has become stronger, and research has become more multidisciplinary. The second is the PLATON project, which is a consortium of leading social research communities in Norway to work together to identify the most effective greenhouse gas reduction instruments. The project will help policy-makers and businesses to make Norway a low-carbon society. PLATON is funded by the Research Council and with contributions from 28 different social actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1673	Then I thank the Council of State for the answer. The main questions to which the national authorities need to know the answers are what kind of climate research funding goes to and how much research goes into preventing climate change. In this regard, I wonder if it would not have been good to get a type of complete overview, and that you get overall coordination of how the funds are channelled into the different research fields. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the Council of State will ensure a systematic and overall overview of the future distribution of climate research resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1682	It's possible for us to go down in the numbers, but then we have to send that inquiry to, for example. The Research Council, which has the details of the various projects. If the representative Sandberg sends a written question, we can find an answer to that question. I would like to add some comments to the NUPI study that the representative referred to in the introduction. It's about global efforts, or the financing of climate research, and Norway is part of it, but we're just a small part of it. Norway is on the list of the 10 countries that provide the most for socio-scientific climate research in absolute terms. I think it is important that we do not view today's greatest challenge as something just one sector can solve alone. We can't afford that – we have to think interdisciplinaryly. We have to have everyone on the team if we're going to solve those challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1689	Then I thank the Council of State again for the answer. The Council of State refers to the Research Council, and the Directorate-General for Sectoral Responsibility for Research of the Ministry of Knowledge emphasises that the system of one Research Council covering all disciplines should provide a good opportunity to see the department's research resources in the context. But at the same time — when the Research Council is asked to explain how Norwegian climate research funds are used — they just underline that the funds are allocated according to priorities in the departments. I think this might illustrate the OECD's reference from this report in 2017, namely that Norwegian research policy should be better coordinated in order to enable research to address the major societal challenges of our time. My last question will then be: What will the Council of State do to ensure better coordination and a more balanced distribution of climate research resources in a system in which the sector principle prevails?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1698	That's a good question, and this is something that happens all the way. It is the long-term plan for research and higher education that leads our research policy – our common research policy. At the same time, the sector principle and the importance of each department's ownership of what they are responsible for is researched and which is fundamental to the way we conduct our research policy. The number of departments involved in climate-friendly and environmentally friendly energy is slightly higher, and the share of social sciences under this theme is also higher than the number of departments involved in financing. I think we have to look at whether we reach the goals we're going to achieve. One of the things we are working on now is the connection to the EU and the new framework programme. The objective there, in Horizon 2020, is that 35 pst. to go to climate-related projects, and this is something we need to work with in common – we need to see both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1708	‘It carries approx. 5,000 deaf sign language users in Norway. In Oslo, Trondheim, and Bergen, there is a special home for the deaf. For deaf people living in other municipalities, there is no such offer where sign language is the everyday language. If an applicant places in one of these three health care facilities, one may be denied space because they give priority to patients in their own municipality. What will the government do to ensure that all deaf sick leavers have the right to choose a place in a nursing home in a sign language environment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1715	I have a lot of understanding that everyone wants to be part of a community, and that you want to live a life with others who share the same form of communication as yourself. For many, it is the most important thing in our care services, namely safety and quality of life. I therefore believe it is important that municipalities listen to those in need when developing their services. They are also obliged to do so in accordance with the provisions of the Patient and User Rights Act on participation. The Health and Welfare Act states that municipalities should ensure that persons staying in the municipality are provided with the necessary health and care services. The user shall receive sound services designed to assess the individual’s needs in a concrete way. So it is the municipality you live in, or the municipality you are looking for services from, which, after an individual assessment of the patient/user, determines the type of service to be provided in the specific case. People with sensory impairment make specific demands on their staff by often having a different form of communication from that of normal users. The ability to communicate with patients and users is an essential part of the safety requirement. The municipality must be aware of these challenges and ensure that it has personnel with the necessary training and competence available. The municipality may choose to build up this competence itself or purchase services from another municipality or a private operator. The municipality also has the opportunity to apply for funds for the empowerment of its own employees through the municipal competence and innovation grant managed by the county councils. Only between 2016 and 2018, i.e. three years, have 80,000 staff in the care services completed basic, continuing or continuing training with grants from this scheme, which is part of the government’s Competence Commitment 2020. I believe it must be an objective that we have municipal health and care services that, as far as it is possible, facilitate us to settle where we want to in Norway, and that we all meet with good services where we choose to settle. It's a value in itself that we can all live and live together no matter what function we have. The goal must be a society where everyone can participate throughout their lives – from cradle to grave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1728	This applies to a very small group, and there may be many years between the time a nursing home in a municipality gets sick home residents who are sign-languagers. I think it is necessary that a slightly different idea than the general wording that everyone is entitled to an individual assessment, and that the municipality has a defence requirement to establish the service supply according to the needs of each. The problem is that even if a municipality realizes that it is difficult for them to get this offer to work and want to buy the offer in, for example. Bergen, Bergen can refuse because they are only responsible for their inhabitants. A prescription is required to ensure that everyone is able to choose a place in a nursing home in a sign language environment, if one needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1733	Then we have one of the premises underlying the Toppes question, and we need to address a little more general leads that have been given, which are not just about deaf people or others with special needs in a care situation. It is such that, based on the so-called relocation circular, published in 1999, there is an opportunity to apply for care services in any other municipality in the country, without that municipality being able to say that only its own citizens will be given priority. It is a right that is often sub-communicated and which is not always understood by the municipalities. On that basis, I have taken up this circular again and will now refresh it and send it out to all municipalities again. It is precisely to stress that it is a self-esteem in the freedom of choice that one can actually live in one municipality, but apply for care services and have the right to assess their needs for care in another municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1738	Thanks for the answer. I haven't actually heard about this moving circular. It is very positive whether it can contribute to a solution for this group and other groups that are, in a way, minorities and have specific needs. As I understand the municipal everyday life, it's often about funding. Can the state council say more about how the move round regulates the payment arrangements? Because I understand that one of the reasons why a person rejects is that one needs the sick home places themselves. Which drummer in such a case, if that, for example. Is there a shortage of sick homes? Could the State Council at all describe a little bit more about what this circular contains?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1745	As a longtime municipal politician, I have also had the experience of prioritising those who have registered addresses in their own municipality. However, this circular — circular I-43/99 — underlines that on the basis of the refusal to deal with a person’s request for care in a municipality, even if the applicant is not originally resident there. This is about also having the opportunity to move as a caretaker, and in this case, for example. as a nursing home resident. This shall now be re-established in a circular manner. We're going to go over it and see if there's a need for further updates. In addition, I would like to add that Living the whole life reform, which is now to be dealt with in each municipality, also provides an opportunity for municipal politicians to go through and discuss how to plan for the best possible service in each municipality, including those who have special needs in the care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1752	Then your case no. 4, the ordinary question hour, omme.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-15.ana.ud142e1766	There is no record available. This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? It doesn't look like that. - The meeting has been cancelled.
