ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e128	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Hadia Tajik shall apply for parental leave from 19 December to 31 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Julia Wong, is invited to meet during the period of leave from 11 January onwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e150	The representative, Ole André Myhrvold, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e155	I'll start where we left off yesterday – with predators. On behalf of the big business representatives Sandra Borch, Bengt Fasteraune, Heidi Greni, Emilie Enger Mehl, Nils T. Bjørke and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a more effective harm to large predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e160	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e165	Red promotes a proposal for good working conditions for good welfare services and another proposal to prevent property speculation in the kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e170	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1-13 will be treated as a whole. The cases are the second time legal proceedings and relate to legal decisions 49–62.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e326	I would like to take the floor on the matter No. 11 and 12, Acts 59 and 60. Incurrence has brought forward amendments to the amending law that have already entered into force. These amending laws have thus been consumed in the main laws, so that the changes should actually have been promoted in the main laws. I therefore propose that legislative acts 59 and 60 be rejected. We propose that changes be made instead in the main laws, which are the tax payment law in case No. 11 and the A-Information Act on Case No. 12, in accordance with the legal observations submitted in these cases. I can then inform you that it is set up for the third time treatment over Christmas, unless someone wants to take it on Monday. I can meet up, but I think most people want us to take it over Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e333	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1-13. At the request of the Judicial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice. 14 to 16 are treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e376	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the allocated speaking time in the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e383	2020 was a completely different year than many had ever seen of it — a year of pandemic, with intervention for the population and fear of health and our most vulnerable, a year in which they added to the justice sector have known about new challenges and tests associated with the pandemic, and a weekday of severe infection prevention measures, with increased concern and need for action in many areas. I want to start this year's budget debate by thanking all those working in the justice sector for a year that has probably been more demanding than other years. I also want to thank the members of the Justice Committee. I would like to praise them for working after the tune «Hold on be strong», by having dealt with very many matters and temporary promises quickly and not least for having delivered well from all the parties in what has probably been the most labor-intensive cottage we have had in the past. This is the eighth justice budget for Erna Solberg. I've been on all eight of the Justice Committee. We have said ‘Adjø’ to a number of Ministers of Justice, and now, with the eighth budget for justice, it is the Right that has just been with the Minister of Justice, and I would like to thank the Council of State for good cooperation and dialogue this year that is soon over. Although we have been united on many important crisis measures, fortunately we are not party-political blind or some of the direction choices for our country. ‘Nothing is new under the sun’ when there is a high level of right-wing policy or important criticism from the opposition. This year's government budget and the comparison between the right and the Progress Party set up against the budgets of the other parties, on the left, show that there are different road choices in Norwegian policy. Where someone might think that the policy is "Oh, for a game", there is – and will be – another direction for the country whether the government is blue or red-green. We're about to go into 2021 – a year that's going to be characterized by the fact that it's getting closer to big shots. And before I start highlighting the most important issues for the Labour Party on the Justice Budget, I will start with the main priorities of the Labour Party. For the voters, they need to know what they get with the Labour Party in any government. The Labour Party wants a fairer Norway, and it's going to be common people's tour. The luck is tax cut for those with the most, we have to believe the right hand government and the Progress Party. For almost eight years, billions have been used to cut taxes for those who spend the most, at the same time as for example. pediatric prices have increased, the purchasing power of the country's pensioners has been reduced, and the holiday allowance supplement for daily allowances for ordinary people has been withdrawn. This is an unfair policy, and the Labour Party believes one must use the community's money in a more fair way. The Labour Party pursues a judicial policy on security and justice and has given priority to strengthening police districts in the country in eight alternative budgets. If the Labour Party had approved its budget for the police districts in the present period, we would be a different place now, especially in the local police. The near-police reform has sprung up the rails. The 2015 agreement is too far-reaching, and we do not see the results of a near-police reform, as the Stortinget asked. Too many places, on the other hand, we've got a weak local police force. We have accidental centralisation at many police peaks, and we also have many places in the country for poor response times. As the League of Police has said many times in recent years when it comes to the implementation of the near-police reform, people are being fooled. I totally agree with that. We also know that there are major challenges in the criminal chain. Everyone in the Justice Committee knows this well, but the right party seems to ignore it. Victims of crime remain in long queues while criminals receive penalty discounts. Lots of things are piled up on the desk of police lawyers all over the country. Last year, in the Justice Committee, we were told that the rights to prosecution in the police were to be seen, but once again, we can't trust the right party. To write in words in the budget proposal that one add 39 million. kr on the table, is not visible to the entire permissions. What we expected, at least the Labour Party, was that the Minister of Justice would provide for his own post or a chapter of his own, so that the whole promise of prosecution in the police came up. So we know through clear input from the police lawyers on the Justice Committee's hearing that if we had allowed about 100 million dollars. kr in an order lift, we could remove the whole queue of victims we're talking about here. We also hear from the police lawyers that the capacity, the bursting capacity, challenges the ability to prioritize seriously organised crime. In a year, in a budget, where the right hand side uses billions of dollars on a tax haven, where they find room for the Human Rights Service, where they find room for cutting beer and wine fees, they don't find room for making the necessary charges. The negotiations with the Progress Party also failed, although the representative of the Justice Committee from the Progress Party recently believed that the situation was a major legal security problem for people. He doesn't seem to mean it anymore, so we can well make it clear that the Progress Party is setting a new record in wings in 2020. In the setting you can also see that the Labour Party refers to the NRK and their overview of pending cases in the criminal case chain. We're talking about thousands of cases that last for three months or over a year. These are ordinary people, people who are victims of crime, who get their lives on hold, there are women who are subjected to power or power in close relationships that have absolutely suffered enough. The Labour Party believes this should have our right in respect of the legal security and quality of life of people. It could be done by allowing 61 million. kr more to remove the queue, which is quite small in the big government budget context. The Labour Party today also makes a loose proposal that I invite all parties, especially the government party, to vote in favour of, where we ask the government to make sure that the rights to the prosecution powers are displayed in the way we thought it would, in the context of the revised national budget for 2021. Although not being caught by a storm wind by reading the budget of the right government, there are several measures in the budget that are also good. Of course, and perhaps especially in a election year, the Right seems to find a little bit more money than usual. Let me stress that it is positive that the courts finally seem to get the promises they deserve. It is positive that the temporary coronation positions in the police are made permanent when the exceptional need attached to the situation is over. However, we have pointed out from the Working Party that this will not be sufficient. We also see, among others: from Dagsrevyen this year, great uncertainty among the new recruits who are now working on the border, when it applies to their future jobs. I would also like to remind you that a number of police districts met in 2021 with blood-red numbers and plans for manslaughter. Therefore, it is positive that the agreement gave more money to the police districts, but once again, one of the tables in the budget setting will see that it is the Labour Party that prioritises the police districts the highest. I would also like to express a great deal of concern about the situation in prison and free custody, and I am very surprised at the arrests Right shows, the last time in the class struggle, when questions are asked about whether it is true to add to Norwegian prison narratives. The Labour Party believes it is serious that Norwegian criminal justice has been exposed to what has been a systematic reduction in the last eight years, and is concerned about the consequences it will have, among other things. for our common social security. My colleague, Maria Aasen-Svensrud, is going to elaborate on this from our side later in the debate. We're living in a state of law, and we're going to arrest him, we're going to take care of him. For the Labour Party, it is important to pursue a policy that strengthens people's legal security throughout the country, and that ensures that the law is equal to everyone. This means that we want a decentralised court, we want to improve legal assistance in the proposed local services centre of the Labour Party. It is important to put sound and images in the courts throughout the country, and it is important to get a police officer who is not only close but also able to prevent more and not just operate event control. We are also very positive about the proposal of the Association of Lawyers, which came during this year's speech, when they said that there is a need for a Rule of Law notice. We are in complete agreement that there is a need to raise the rule of law policy, and 'Oh, oh, oh, oh, so happy I shall be' whether it is the Labour Party and a Head of Government that can submit such a message. The working party wants a fairer Norway with more security in everyday life. I take up our proposals and look forward to a fine debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e419	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e424	Today we are dealing with the best judicial budget of the time. Using the word 'times' goes a little bit of inflation in sometimes, but I just don't find a better description than that. If you do not believe in politicians talking about their own policies, you can talk to the actors: the police, the courts, journalists who have been following the justice sector for years, actors who have been working on justice policy for years. Many people say the same thing -- they've never seen anything like the budget we're dealing with today. It is, in fact, so strong that the negotiated budget is in line with the monopoly money that is often found in the alternative budgets of the opposition. In fact, something so amazing has happened that the budget adopted today, at a very large number of key points, surpasses the opposition's alternative proposal. So finally, it's our turn to be able to say that the opposition has presented grey alternative justice budgets. They do not give priority to legal certainty. They do not take legal certainty seriously. Under-budgeting from the opposition can create a police crisis. They feed the justice sector. These alternative budgets will upset sectors by sector, etc. But if you can't distinguish the position and the opposition to money use, there's one fundamental difference between the position and the opposition in this committee, and that's the force of action. That is the will for reform. It is the will to give priority and the will to ensure that the money is actually used in a striking way. All the games in this room add up to money in the justice sector of about 40 billion. kr. But 40 billion. kr in a budget is not the same as 40 billion. to real justice policy if, at the same time, an out-of-date policy means that billions of dollars will be wasted on the road. Because that's actually what the opposition stands for. If you spend money on a blackout, on out-of-date structures, on empty labour offices, on many small operating centres, on many small police districts, on more administration in the courts, and on several levels of administration in the criminal justice system, it actually becomes less police force, less judicial activity, less content in the criminal justice system, and less social security and preparedness. There'll be more administration and more bureaucracy. It's just like that. And that is what this opposition stands for when, since 2013, they have said no to almost all structural changes – not only in the justice sector, but also in all other sectors. This is not just about major reforms. I still have the pleasure of seeing a single proposal or document eight proposals where it is put up to make things easier, where you modernise or want to change. If there are some economic students out there looking for topics they can write about, this would actually be incredibly interesting to find out: What would it cost Norway if the opposition had got its way and nothing had been changed? Overall, since 2013, this government has implemented changes that have saved billions of dollars each year to do things a little smarter, a little bit more modern. So these are heads that the opposition would have wasted if they had gotten their way. Of course, there are changes that have been very tough to face in politics, but they have led to the justice sector being more trimmed than ever, more modernized than ever, and enormously heavily equipped to face the future. I look forward to discussing the Justice Budget today. Since we also deal with some issues together, I would just like to mention that it is a pleasure today to be able to vote through a solid thread package where, in addition to many good single proposals, there are also 60 million. kr in addition to the government proposal. In particular, I would like to thank the rapporteurs Per-Willy Amundsen and Kari Kjenaas Kjos and the rest of the Committee for their good treatment and for their good results. This is a good example of the fact that opposition proposals can also be dealt with, processed and implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e441	Will the representative address the proposal that has been put forward by the Right in case No? 16?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e446	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e451	The representative Peter Frölich has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e456	For the Progress Party, justice policy is very important. The field of justice is basically about creating security for most people out there in the whole country. It's about protecting the inhabitants from internal enemies. Justice policy is absolutely fundamental to the functioning of the state and is absolutely necessary to rebuild legitimacy for the state. That is why the Progress Party has always been committed to good justice policy, which is about a strong police force, courts with the necessary resources, which can work well, and a criminal body that can carry out its tasks in a good way. In the Advance Party's alternative state budget, we added to the historic strengthening of the justice sector. We wanted to strengthen the courts by nearly 90 million. kr. We wanted to strengthen criminal custody by $30 million. kr. We wanted to strengthen the police to combat juvenile and gang crime by 100 million. kr and give an additional 400 million. Just to strengthen the police out there. Police reform has been a good and important reform for the country. It's about enabling the police to deliver on their community tasks in the 21st century. But I think we need to be able to see the challenges that are being created. It's about the priorities made in the wake of this. This is why the Progress Party is very concerned that police force is also being delivered out there – many describe an experience that the police are not close enough, that in the districts it takes a long time for the police to come. It is not about resources themselves, but it may be about how this is prioritised by the Police Directorate and in the individual police districts. That is why the Progress Party is very concerned about earmarking money, granting money directly, precisely to strengthen police force in the individual police districts. That's why we want 400 million. extra to the police. We also want not least to strengthen civil defence. It's about building preparedness across the country, which we've seen through this year with covid-19 the need and necessity of. Civil defence is one of the important societal functions that may not be so much talked about, but which is most necessary when crises occur. We've been negotiating with the government, and we came up with a budget in the field of justice that I have to say I'm very pleased with, given the assumptions. The Progress Party has moved on to historical sums in the negotiations with the government and has been implemented in the budget. I am very happy that we, among other things, was able to strengthen the police by 60 million. extra to combat recriminalism. It's an important task that needs to be solved, if we're not going to get on the wrong course. It's just to point out the experience in our neighboring country, Sweden. But we also got 100 million. extra in the negotiations, just to strengthen the police force in the individual police districts. It's a very important breakthrough. I also think it is absolutely necessary to build legitimacy around the important reform that has been carried out. Twenty-five million. kr extra for the civil defence is also important. In the context of our being able to have a majority for an important judicial reform, a further 40 million will be secured. Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. So the courts are better equipped than ever to meet the changes that are now going to happen, also to be able to provide even better services. It is a great pleasure for me that after twelve years of fighting – the first decision was in this hall in 2008 – we finally manage to find money to establish a DNA analysis laboratory at the Rechtsgeneticszentrum in Tromsø. It's in many ways historical, because it's taken so long. The counterclaims out there have been strong. That's why it was time to put a dot. It will not least be a strength for legal certainty that we have an alternative to the Oslo environment. These services can be provided as well in Tromsø as in Oslo. We are now dealing with several things at once. I would like to see us having our own debate on counter-crime measures, because this deserves a debate of our own. But I respect, of course, the choice of cutting down on the debate. These are very important measures, for which I must say I am very pleased that we have received a majority in favour, along with the other parties in the Committee on Justice. The proposals of the Progress Party have been the starting point for good negotiations with the government parties, and if we have not been able to find out the primary policy of the Progress Party, then I believe that we have managed to move the majority in this Chamber considerably, in fact significantly beyond what we have managed to do in the government. It is about the uptake of clearer use of institutions in the field of child protection. It's about the responsibility of the parents. It's about the withdrawal of values, which is very important to combat the criminal gangs -- taking away the values and having the paragraphs needed to do it. It's about a restraining order. It's actually also about a ban on participation in criminal gangs. In sum, this is a powerful tightening up, which is going to make the police better able to combat recrime out there. Maybe that's what this is all about. We are granting more and more resources to the police, most recently in the budget that is now being adopted. We'll figure out another 60 million. to combat recriminalism. But then it is also important that the police have the tools, tools and tools they need to fight this type of crime. It is precisely these measures, because what you hear from the police, is that they often feel upset when they are also facing children, down to the age of 13-14. They're almost out of action to deal with this. A fundamental criticism the Progress Party has promoted relates to the problem of the total absence of consistency. It should be unnecessary to say that, but it's actually that there's a reason to use punishment. Punishment actually works. There can be no such thing as having in practice excluded those under 18 years of age from prison. That is what the Famous decision of the government of Stoltenberg has done. The majority adopted the juvenile penalty. I think that was a big mistake. Some of our proposals are about to transform it. That, of course, is not the will of the other parties. The party of progress is left entirely alone in wanting to use punishment. But after all, we've managed to move the other parts a little bit. It's a positive development. I expect that we'll come back to discuss recriminalism, because that's a very important point. I think it's special to see the Center Party. The fact that the Central Party delivers in many ways ‘fairyales’ — or fairy tales, as it is called in Norwegian — in terms of funding its budget is one thing. Another thing is that they act relatively unfairly — not only relatively but very unfairly — in the political debate. I feel that they might try to attract voters who, strictly speaking, would not necessarily reach if they said the truth. Many people have an experience that the Centre Party – they may try to give an outside impression of it, without talking about it so much – is in favour of a strict immigration policy. So they're not. We see it so clearly when the Center Party likes to distribute tens of millions to left-wing immigration-smooth organizations, but wants to cut 1.8 million. kr in the funds of the only counterpower available: Human Rights Service. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e484	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e489	We in the Centre Party have a completely different approach to what is development and progress than the present government and the Progress Party have. We disagreed with them in the way the so-called near-police reform was planned and implemented, and we want to bet differently on the police action ahead of what they are in favour of. Because we are against massive centralization, we are often blamed for being against modernisation. Such claims either end up in a misunderstanding, or it's just pure rule technique. I suspect that is often the last thing. But that's okay. Fortunately, more and more people around our country understand that building the whole country is not possible if ever more important services are moved far from many communities. We in the Center Party cannot, of course, present a wave of a near-police reform that should never have had the word «near» at the beginning. However, we have very concrete proposals that will improve the situation in the police, and which will not least provide much more citizens in both the city and the countryside with a stronger and closer police force. We go in to set up new county police offices and posts around the country, but then, of course, without having a desktop map as the starting point for where these will be created. We want municipalities, the police themselves and other actors to discuss this and say their word, and then it has to be decided where to give priority to setting up new ones in the city and the countryside. The central party gets criticism for not having put enough money into this goal in our alternative government budget for next year, but that criticism is based on wrong premise. The premise of the government party is, among other things, that there must be a very large number added to each new bilgeman's office, and that rents must be animals. The government is based on an estimate from the Directorate of Police with staffing standards for officers' offices that either the government or the Police Directorate themselves follow, and then it becomes directly unprofessional. We notice that 85 of today's Länsmannskontoret have fewer than ten added, of which 29 have offices between zero and one added, according to the SSB's figures from 2019. Over 1,100 police officers have disappeared from nearly 200 municipalities under this government. At the new main seats, the growth has been close to 1600 in the same period. It goes without saying that it is far more expensive to get local police in Oslo, Stavanger and Trondheim over in Engerdal, Bjerkrem and Holtålen. In addition, the Central Party would like to have a proper commitment to organised crime and recriminalism, among others. by strengthening both Kripos and the police districts' efforts against this. Strengthening preparedness was one of the main objectives of the reform of the police force, but as little as the fact that the police have been more ‘nearly’ of all centralisation, we have been better prepared around the country because of this reform. Laying down more than 120 LEN offices would lead to more people being advised by the government in the remaining offices – and not least more police patrols. But many offices have been lost for people, and the government itself admits that they cannot document one extra patrol – all over the country, that is. The whole point of having policemen spread is that they're there when they need to. That is why it is right to strengthen the crew and to aim at setting up two police officers per police district, not just two per thousand on a national basis. The central party wants to go further than the government when it comes to providing better preparedness. We mean the new emergency centre and the police helicopter base in Austland is good, but it is important to provide police helicopters in the country, too. We're starting with North Norway, where we've invested funds to set up a police helicopter base in the next year. In our alternative state budget, we propose a more targeted prioritisation of funds to the police. It has been an explosive growth in consulting and central bureaucracy under this government. The central party will therefore take money from this and rather use it for the police districts, police lawyers, reprisals and police helicopters, etc. So when we write that we're strengthening the police with 540 million. Compared to the government's government budget, we cover this both with fresh funds for the judicial budget and with redeployment, mainly from consultancy and bureaucracy, which has had a tremendous growth under this government along with the number of tenants. It's impossible to get into all of the bet areas that we in the Center Party have in the justice field in just 5 minutes, but I have to take the courts. We had a big debate about the future of the courts recently, where the government uses massive centralization as a tool once again. Our alternative is to keep up with all the rights of property and land change, which today makes sure that we're at the top of the world when it comes to legal certainty. We've been in favour for several years of digitizing all the tracts and getting modern and efficient tools in the work, while the government has reserved them for the biggest thing. In our alternative state budget for next year, we have put in funds to add a fixed extra sentence to all courts where there is a one-time jurisdiction. Such concrete reinforcements are forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e513	First of all, before I start the post, I would like to thank the Justice Committee for the work this budget year. I think we've cooperated well. We agree on many things. So there's some place where we disagree, and I'm going to come back to some of this. I would, of course, also like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mrs Lagen Waogslid. She has managed the committee in an inclusive and friendly way, despite the fact that we've had a lot to do in between and a lot of complicated things. So I'd like it to be recorded. Our most important task today is to secure funding for the most important institutions in the justice sector, and so we are talking about police, court and criminal justice. In addition, there are some other schemes, but these three institutions are our most important task today to ensure that they have sufficient finances. Here there is a common understanding among all parties that we all want a good police force, good courts and a good criminal code. It is probably not on the basis of the basic funding here that the great ideological and political differences are being played out. Then the budget will also ensure that the rule of law is safeguarded, that legal certainty is ensured, that crime is kept down, and that through this budgeting we will also strengthen confidence in the legal state itself and in the institutions of the rule of law. Despite a lot of money being put into this, as we all see in the budget, SV will point out in three areas where we believe Norway still has significant challenges, and where that budget does not cover it sufficiently, where we believe that this budget is actually under-financing these areas. One area, which I've been busy in all the years I've been here, is the effort to protect people in Norway from violence in close relationships and rape. It's like the traditional crime scene is changing. Ordinary profit crime and drug crime are falling, while the police’s greatest task — and where they receive the highest number of reports — is neither gang crime nor juvenile crime, as some people try to make it sound like, but there is violence in close relationships and rape. The police are actually kneeling off the congestion around these matters, and they have to resolve cases in very many of those areas because of poor capacity. I feel that the budgetary unity that has been presented here does not sufficiently address this. It is too small to provide the police with earmarked funds so that they have the capacity to deal with what is, in fact, the greatest challenge of our time in the field of justice. It is important to say it again: violence in close relations and rape is, in fact, the greatest challenge of our time in the field of justice. There's too little resources added to it in today's budget, so SV will designate funds for this very thing. The other area, which I am absolutely convinced that my colleague Maria Aasen-Svensrud is going to get more into, is linked to the criminal justice system. There are areas of criminal justice that are significantly underfunded. Yes, the government is now spending money to prevent the effect of inadequate staffing in the criminal justice system, which is linked to too much isolation, but we have been in a situation now how many of Norwegian prisons have to break human rights, by the fact that prisoners have to spend much of their time alone on the cell. This is an area where we have received international criticism. I believe that this budget does not adequately correct the injustice and the human rights violation that this actually illustrates. The third area that SV has pointed out in our option is related to the Nav scandal. Norway has a huge challenge in correcting the injustice after an unknown number of Norwegians have been unjustly convicted of social security fraud. We believe that these should be offered good and simple arrangements for free legal assistance. The government has not provided it in its budget. We want the free legal aid system to be much more immediate, not the heavyweight solution that is now, tied up to the fact that you have to go through Nav first, and then Nav has to give you an acceptance in order to contact a lawyer. We want to put in considerable resources to correct the injustice, so that ordinary people who have been exposed to this, and who may not have all the world's resources themselves, will have the opportunity to get free legal aid. Summary: from a satellite perspective, the Norwegian rule of law is good, but we have three areas where we believe we have significant challenges, and I have mentioned these.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e532	Would the representative Eide like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e537	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e542	The representative Petter Eide then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e547	If we are to ensure freedom and equal opportunities for all, increased legal certainty across the country is important. The Norwegian courts face several challenges. Things take longer to deal with than before, and there are queues in the courts today. The law also requires the inclusion of explanations in the courts, but in practice it is not always recorded because the courts lack recording equipment. These challenges go beyond the legal certainty of ordinary people. The government delivers a powerful bet for Norwegian courts. This budget is a major step towards the full digitisation of Norwegian courts. Video and recording equipment is now also to be provided to the medium-sized and smallest courts, and more than 50 new judicious annual works are to be employed. The reform of the Court of Justice also increases flexibility in order to maximise the use of these resources, while at the same time ensuring good competence in the courts and professional workplaces in and around the courts throughout the country. In sum, the changes will lead to more justice and legal certainty for each individual person throughout Norway. In the police department, there have been 2 000 more operative police officers in the police districts since 2013. Police reform is starting to work, including: the target of a shorter response time in case of serious incidents has been reached. Police are also now strengthened with many new posts in this budget. In the budget negotiations with the Progress Party, we are also very pleased with the agreement to introduce animal police in all the police districts of the country over the next year. More than half of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons use drugs daily before they start settlement. Nine out of ten prisoners show symptoms of mental health problems and suffering, and in the government platform we promised to strengthen the mental health service for Norwegian prisoners. In 2021, the government will establish regular local services on drugs and mental health protection in all Norwegian prisons. We move the specialised health service into prisons, so that prisoners receive better treatment and follow-up than before. This is a demanding area where much needs to be done, and this is one step on the path to better mental health and less relapses into drugs and crime for prisoners in Norwegian prisons. The left is fighting for freedom and equal opportunities for all, and this budget is not least a strengthening of legal certainty in Norway. Finally, I would like to add a few words to the motion for a resolution on recriminalism. In recent years, crime in Oslo and the Oslo region has fallen, while juvenile delinquency has increased. The vast majority of young people, 97 p.m., do not commit crime, but a small minority face problems with gang and juvenile delinquency. Today, there are active criminal youth gangs and networks in the areas of Furuset, Bogerud, Veitvet, Lambertseter, Romsås, Vestli, Holmlia and Mortensrud. The most important measures we take are in schools and in the neighbourhood. The areas of high juvenile delinquency are also the areas with the most child-resistance issues. The investments we make today in a good school, better follow-up on child protection and good leisure activities will in the years to come lead to less crime. We need to find a balance between soft and tough measures, and at the top of more school and community action, the police also need to get the tools they need. Some people don't stop at crime until they understand that crime doesn't pay off. It requires that they be taken and punished for their actions. Almost all the measures we are now adopting in this matter have already been worked on for a longer time by the government. Simplification of the withdrawal of criminal proceeds, illegal participation in criminal gangs and ensuring that child protection takes care of children under the age of 15 who commit a lot of crime are important measures. And now the Stortinget also gives a signal that we support the government's planned action on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e564	Ensuring the security and security of the country’s citizens is one of the most important tasks that the country has. Practicing good social security and preparedness is one of our most important obligations towards our Nordics. In Norway, the trust between authorities and the population is strong and stable, the level of crime is low, and, overall, it is safe and healthy to live in Norway. But we are not exempt from crime and threats, and from the civil government's accession, the priorities in the field of justice have been clear. Therefore, this state budget is marked by a clear direction in which preparedness and social security are elevated. An important factor in security is a good and competent police force. It is a pleasure to state that the police are getting an increase of over 1.1 billion. kr compared to last year and raised to over 20 billion. kr. Over the entire period, funds have been allocated to meet the target of two police officers per thousand inhabitants. This budget provides for a greater manning gap in permanent police posts in modern times. The goal is increased local presence and more visible police throughout the country. In Haugesund's newspaper today, the police chief in South West is standing up and can confirm that 70 posts are to be filled. The police have a crucial role to play in preventing, detecting and investigating criminal acts. We know that cruel criminal acts are committed against the smallest in society. Experience as a child can have major consequences in adult life. Technological changes have resulted in child abuse on the Internet, which, according to statistics, has increased by 160 pst. That is why we are now giving priority to strengthening the professional environments that are investigating the most serious issues. Brutal and unforeseen events may occur. We've seen scary examples of that. This is why the efforts of the police’s National Emergency Response Centre are very essential. This will have a good impact on preparedness across the country. The picture of crime is changing as societies change, and the practice of police work has therefore changed. For example, traditional crime has moved to digital arenas, and it is particularly important to develop robust professional environments capable of meeting this challenge. It conditional on a new police reform aimed at providing the police with equal quality services throughout the country. No reforms are perfect, and therefore we will continue the important work to further develop the quality of the reform. It's important that people know themselves safe where they live. Therefore, the basic staff in the districts has increased by over 1,500 new police posts since the bourgeois government joined in 2013 – 400 new posts only this year. Otherwise, I will boast that the new rescue helicopters are coming. It's literally a boost for the country's rescue service and air ambulance capacity. It will contribute to faster and better transport, and that means a lot to people living along the sea, along the coast and in the districts. Congratulations on Vardø with 15 million. kr for new lifeguards! The government also proposes the use of time in our impartial and independent courts. The time taken to deal with the issue should be reduced, while the quality should be improved. Together with the Progress Party, a further 40 million will strengthen the courts. kr. Public vocabulary has for a long time had a development characterized by polarizing rhetoric. Some people experience being subjected to hate crime. This takes the government seriously and gives 10 million. kr to a national environment of competence in the field of hate crime. These are many and complex reasons why people commit criminal acts. The Christian People's Party believes that prevention is the best tool to combat crime. It is very important to target children and young people at risk. The voluntary and non-profit sector is an important contribution to this. Voluntary organisations play an important role in reconciliation and rehabilitation, and we are now increasing the pot by 3.3 million. kr. The grant contributes to the provision of a visitation service, cultural services in prison and follow-up services after release. Here both the Salvation Army and Together for life AS do an important job of getting people into regular jobs. In this way, voluntary organisations also contribute to making Norway even safer. I'm listening to the criticism of the Center Party and the opposition and I'm getting quite abandoned. I wonder if any of the criticisms are out of date, because this summer I was so lucky to get a visit from the Police Union. It was reassuring to get such positive and factual criticism of a reform that could be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e592	Security in everyday life is very important, both for individuals and for society as a whole. The ongoing pandemic and related infectious disease prevention measures have put the Norwegian community to the test. The 2021 budget for justice reflects this situation. It is necessary to facilitate the security and well-being of society within the relevant infectious diseases control measures. The government's draft budget for 2021 represents a broad and comprehensive strengthening of the justice and preparedness sector. By 2020, we have employed 400 more people in police posts to handle, among other things. border control and follow-up of disease protection measures resulting from the outbreak of the virus. In 2021, the government set up to continue the police forces and make them firm. Police positions will be transferred to the police districts in the long term. The Government also proposes to continue the temporary strengthening of the prosecution work of the revised National Budget 2020 and to make it a lasting strengthening. Strengthening the prosecution process will help to further reduce the penalties chain. Good balance in the criminal justice chain is important. When police and prosecution are strengthened, the courts must also be strengthened. Several courts are outside one or more of Storting's cases for the duration of proceedings. The Court of Auditors has used its most serious form of criticism — ‘very serious’ — that no more courts reach the objectives of criminal proceedings. In the revised budget for 2020, the courts were given the means to appoint several judges on a temporary basis to exclude the balances that have been settled. The Government proposes to continue the temporary strengthening of judicial positions in the courts in 2021 and to establish them. This helps to ensure that residues can be reduced and maintained at a low level. Proposals have also been made for the funding of a necessary pre-project for a new warehouse in Bergen. The government also proposes to continue the efforts on new buildings and rehabilitation in the field of criminal law. Oslo Prison is an important prison, among other things: due to the maintenance capacity of the East. The prison is worn down and not functional. The government is therefore proposing funds for a pre-project for a new prison. In addition, the government proposes to strengthen efforts to combat isolation in prison and specific measures for female prisoners. The police emergency centre was completed this autumn. This is a big boost for our national preparedness. The government provides the budget for 500 police district response personnel to be able to train at the Emergency Response Centre. It will strengthen preparedness throughout the country. The government will strengthen fire and rescue training. We propose to establish a new technical school for fire and rescue personnel at the Norwegian Fire School in Tjeldsund. Construction starts in 2021, and from 2023, 160 students can start their education every year. It will also strengthen preparedness throughout the country. Through the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, we have agreed on further strengthening the field of justice and preparedness. We're getting a further reinforcement of the police in the districts. We are getting a significant boost in efforts to combat juvenile and gang crime across the country. We agree that separate animal police units should be set up in all the police districts. We agree on further strengthening the courts with both audio and video recording positions in the courts. We're in a special time, but we all hope that by 2021 the situation could normalize. The budget for justice we adopt today is a good way to get over the pandemic and meet every day afterwards. Let me end by thanking the chairman of the Justice Committee in particular and all the members in general for a very good cooperation this very special year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e617	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e622	As I was busy in my post, I am concerned about all the thousands of victims who are in line in the criminal chain. Last year, a Joint Judicial Committee said that for a long time it has been a disadvantage that the promises to this part of the Public Prosecutor's Office are not made clear by the State budget. In this year's state budget, the Minister of Justice does not deliver on the wishes of the Justice Committee, although the police lawyers are very clear that this is absolutely necessary, in addition to a total increase of 100 million. kr in order to remove the criminal sanctions – the line of victims, common people who see their lives waiting. So my question is, why has the Minister of Justice not complied with the wishes of a joint committee in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e627	As I have answered both the representative and the party traps before, we have had a lot to do this year. I think that if you count the deliveries to Stortinget on normal things, they've gone more than normal, in addition to all the work we've had with Korona. So it's just a work we've been doing, and we're going to deliver it next year. But that does not mean that it is not possible to find out what strength has been done in this field, and so there has been a very significant reinforcement in the 2013 prosecution field. That's 30 pst. more prosecutors now than in 2013, and although there is no separate government budget entry, it is fully possible to find out how many are involved. For example, I can. tells us that Oslo has received a change from 2013 at 35 p.m. In Eastern police districts, as we have read, they have a change of over 50 pst. So we have 30 pst. Several prosecutors, and we are now making a commitment to state lawyers and judges to address the entire criminal case chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e632	It's very positive, the state council now says, that one is going to come back to it. Then I hope that the government party will vote for the Labour Party's proposal today, that one will return to it in the revised national budget for 2021. To refer to numbers from 2013 means very little because they are talking about this, for they over 22,000 – I guess – that the NRK has documented are in long queues in the criminal chain. Unfortunately, there will be a poor comfort for those who are given their life to wait in this way. When there is room for a bargain, a tax haven for beer and wine – and there is no way to find room for what can be said to be worth 61 million. In order to remove this unworthy criminal record, it says a great deal about the priority of this government. Why does the government refuse to provide for such an appeal lift?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e640	When I refer to 2013, it is not to respond to victims of queues, but it is to respond to the representative's claim that this has not been a priority. It's actually been a priority. That's 30 pst. several lawyers, and that is a clear priority. So we have more lawyers, each lawyer deals with fewer things per lawyer, and that's how the queue has gone down by 20 pst. in one year. Now that we further strengthen the prosecution unit in the police, the state attorneys and the courts, it means that we get the queues further down. It's important primarily for the sake of victims. So these numbers are important to refute the claim that this is not a priority. This has been very clearly prioritised as part of the police reform, and it is important to further prioritise it, so that we get the queues down. But it's going in the right direction, and it's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e645	There are several good things in this state budget, but this does not work. This is not good enough – when there are warnings from the Aust police district, when the criminal code is broken, when we talk about 6,000 people in queue only in East. There's evidence that this hasn't been a high enough priority. That is why the Labour Party places so much emphasis on it in this year's debate. As Peter Frölich said, we're some about a lot, and there's a lot that's good here. Why is it so difficult for this government to prioritize victims in the criminal proceedings? Why didn't you agree to find the millions that we needed to bring down the criminal sanctions altogether? That's what I think is weird. Does the Council agree with me that the situation as it is now, no matter how much she has worked on this matter, weakens people's legal certainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e650	I have a very clear feeling that the numbers don't matter to the representative's need to present the matter in his own way. I agree that the queues have been too long, so I also said in my main post. That is why I also said why we are giving priority to this. So in the case of East, they've got a strengthening from 2013 on 52 pst. It is possible that it does not matter to the representative, but it means something for the matters that are being dealt with. Then we're going further down. We have to see the whole criminal chain in one context, and it's about prosecution lawyers, it's about strengthening the state lawyers, it's about strengthening the courts. We do that, there's a historical reinforcement in every term, and we're going to have the queues down, it's important for victims. That is exactly what I agree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e657	The Council of State and the undersigned share the view that we are implementing a very important police reform that is arming the police for the 21st century and the realities facing us today – forward-looking, not backward, as some in this Chamber are. But much of the weakness of the reform, or the criticism of the reform, which I believe is well-founded, is that the police are not sufficiently present, that there are too long distances, and that there are not enough patrols out there everywhere, especially in the districts. And so all reforms need to be adjusted along the way. There are no reforms that have been finalised and adopted initially. That is why I am very pleased that we have reached an agreement to strengthen the police with 100 million. kr extra, just to create more closeness in the police districts. My question is, how will the Council of State assume that that money is spent out there, so that it actually means increasing the proximity of the police out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e664	First of all, I very much agree with the description of the need for police reform, and I am terribly concerned on behalf of primarily victims of crime, but also the entire justice field, that someone is thinking and planning to reverse the clock. It's scary. The police are now working in a completely different way, and we got a terrible verdict from the Gjørv Commission on the organisation of the police, lack of training, lack of capacity, many police deficiencies. It's now corrected in. We live in a long - distance country, and it is important for the security of people to feel that the police are present. Then I believe that you cannot count employees in one local office, because it does not tell anything about the job that is being done. It is made together with the joint units, together with research, analysis, laboratories, network patrols. This is an interaction, and it's very important. I have had dialogue with the police director and I have been clear that the 400 posts are going to the districts, that the reinforcement is going to take place in the districts, and then we need to make a professional assessment of how this is going to happen, but we are following this closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e673	I share the assessment that it is mainly unwise to control the details too much. It is often the police districts that are best placed to know how best to use resources, because the challenges are not the same everywhere. It's rational, it's important. But then I'll come back to that some of the challenge is that you haven't given enough priority to that proximity out there. Yes, there are many who work in the office, and who do many important jobs, for all things, but the police must also be present, the police must also be out in the streets, the police must also set a proper time – it must not take too long before the police arrive when they are needed. So my question is, how will the Council of State ensure that this is also followed up – when these hundreds of millions more now come to the police – that the Police Directorate actually ensures that the money is spent on what the Storting wants, and that the police districts prioritize closeness out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e680	I'm very happy that this government actually introduced response time, because now we can actually measure how things are in Police Norway. And I'm very, very happy that we now, this fall, actually achieve response time on all three requirements. That's very good, and we have to hold on to that. Then, in the dialogue with the police director, I have been clear about our expectations, both the expectations of the Storting and the expectations of the government, that police districts should be strengthened, that geographical units should be strengthened. Even if we leave the police out there to make the professional assessment, we follow up. We know the number of posts, we know where they are placed, and we follow this closely in the dialogue, but with confidence that this is done in a good way – and if not, of course we should follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e687	I showed in my post that the government has not been able to put in place more police patrols, even if they have closed over 120 relief agencies. And the Council of State also recently boasted that the police are reaching the target of response time per second tertiary 2020, and believe that there is evidence that the police reform was right. Paradoxically, the government didn't reach its own targets until they halved the number of measurement parameters. Until the first tertiary 2020, police response time was measured at about 50 pst. and 80 pst. of an emergency mission. Now it's just the number of 80 pst. of the task published. In spite of this, the results are worse than in 2016, the year before the major structural changes started through the near-police reform. What does the Council of State mean by this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e692	As I said, this council is very pleased that we now have response time and can do this kind of deep dive. It's true that there have been some changes, but these are technical changes. We now achieve response time on all three requirements. That's very good, and that's the first time it happens after we introduced this requirement. We can disagree about a lot, and I hear that the representative is more concerned with restoring offices than actually being out and understanding how the police are now working. Nor do I understand that you have not read the Gjørv Commission's report and taken seriously the very clear orders you received there. We have. Being concerned with response time is very important, strengthening the geographical units is very important, because people have to feel secure, but the most important thing is that we make the first priority: it's about preparedness, it's about violence, killing in close relationships, and it's about child abuse. So it's strengthened through this period, and it's really great.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e699	With that, the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e704	There's been a lot of strange things happening this fall, for example. Aston Villa won 7–2 over Liverpool, suggesting that the world is obviously not quite up to date. In the range of all this strange and strange, the Right's proposals and understanding of your own budget within the criminal justice system are well integrated. In a debate with those who are signed at Dagsnytt 18, State Secretary Settem states that criminal justice has been strengthened by 1.3 billion. kr by the government of Solberg, while his own trade directorate, KDI, can tell that it has been cut in operating budgets of more than 220 million. kr since 2015. This makes it very difficult to understand what is fact, what is fiction or pure daydreaming. I really hope the Council of State here today can explain in a proper way to the Storting how this is connected. This week we can also read in the Class Struggle that ‘The Criminal Service is kneeling on the South West’. It's notified by both employees and management, they say it's moving towards new cuts and downsizing. Elin Sabine Hognestad from Norwegian Prisons and Free Care Associations clearly says that it is not useful to replace people with cameras. They are concerned that there is not enough money to operate properly, and from all over the country we can hear about trustees who are afraid that something will happen to them or their colleagues at work. Security is weakened. We can read in the same newspaper the day after that, that the honourable Member Melvær cannot see or understand the drama, she finds it difficult to believe in the elected representatives, and I assume that he is also the regional director. I've thought in the past that right-wing people sometimes have a little hurt to hear, but totally deaf and blind – yes, it came as a surprise. But why is it so important to listen to the employees? Well, because they give us a picture of their everyday life at work. They say that safety is impaired in the workplace, they say that containment and isolation practices will continue due to low manning. They say they have to document and report, but they can't activate, because they need time and trust to do their job. They tell us that they've hurt their stomachs when they send convicted people back to society, because they're not sure if they're sending rehabilitated people into our neighborhoods, or if you're going to break the law again. This is not the case with Norway. Norway is well-known for its humane implementation and safe working conditions. But criminal care is torn down stone by this government. It's not useful with cameras, new constructions and a digitized everyday life in Agder when there's not enough people at work. During this year, therefore, the Civil Ombudsman made his special announcement to the Stortingen about illegal isolation in Norwegian prisons. This is well known and well debated in this Chamber. For most people, it is reasonable that something needs to change. The government's proposal for a solution is a drop in the ocean. The government is going on demanding a high level of activity at the same time as it is cut in the operating budget. Crime is doing everything they can with limited means to remedy the situation. Can outsourcing be a solution, maybe? Perhaps you can privatize the prisoner transport, as the representative Frølich talks so much about the police. They report on every little thing, then political leadership will see that here's the activity. In the eagerness to cut public sector, our common welfare country is gradually disappearing. The services are kneeling and the doors are opened for privatisation. This is nothing new, we've seen it before. That's why the Workers' Party says, "Now there's got to be an ordinary labourer's turn." People should be safe at work, victims of crime should get their justice and punish a proper follow-up. No one gets fresh from being locked in a room, and good neighbors don't come by themselves. It is not useful to be ‘optimist’ and traverse ‘miles by mile’ in the wrong direction, as this government does. Now we have to turn around the course and get to grips with the laborious work of repatriating Norwegian criminal care for the best for employees, prisoners and our common security.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e722	There is no doubt that this government is giving priority to the justice sector. It shows both this budget and the increase that has been in place since we took over in 2013. Next year, the police will have over 500 million. SEK to employ 400 more policemen in permanent posts. They also have additional resources to cut down on both gang and hate crime. Therefore, it is quite special to listen to ‘miles by mile’ with the complaint song from the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. There's no way how bad things are. The fact is that this government has systematically and purposefully built up a well-equipped police force with over 3,000 new members of the police and officers' seat, new technical equipment and new cars, an expanded emergency squad, new police helicopters and a nationwide emergency network – to name something. According to the police report, no other public agency has had such an increase in the number of employees during this period. The government has also made sure that we reach the goal of two policemen per thousand inhabitants. Compared to the red-green government, this government has employed six times as many in the police. It says a little bit about the labyrinth in the red-green years. Both the Gjørv Commission and the police study concluded that the police had to be strengthened and reorganised. They were unable to deal with new and more complicated crime. The police reform was therefore absolutely necessary, and to me it is completely incomprehensible that the Central Party could vote against and not listen to heavy professional recordings. It is really worrying that a party with prime minister ambitions does not listen to facts and our leading experts. What would the police be like today if the Senter Party were to decide? That's not good to say. Small cannon offices with short opening hours are not something we want to go back to. That's not what gives us the security we want. Serious crime, both physically and not least digitally, must be handled by strong and specialised disciplines. We've built that up now, and it's already starting to give good results. The specialised units help solve big and complicated issues, including in the units. Serious assaults are part of this. Here we have seen a dramatic increase, and the police use enormous resources on this, which I think is quite right. The most vulnerable among us must have the highest priority. Right will stand by the police reform. It was absolutely necessary, and we want to keep it and develop it further. It is unclear to me what is the Central Party's wish for the Norwegian police if they were to have government power. It is also unclear what the Labour Party sees, now that they have gone from supporting the reform to being against it. Although the police have more resources and more employees than ever before, there are still things that can be better in such a major and far-reaching reform, but in the meantime it must be allowed to rejoice that it is going the right way, and that most of it has become much better. Both the Directorate of Administration and Financial Management and the National Attorney General report that the quality of the work has become much better than before. The last survey also shows that people generally feel safe and have confidence in the police. What's perhaps the most enjoyable thing, in the middle of the Central Party and Workers' Party's complaint song, is that I haven't met anyone, neither police employees, managers nor their organizations, who wants to go back to the old structure. There are even centre party rapporteurs out there who are satisfied. Fortunately, they are more realistic than their party traps here in the house. And finally, a call to both the Workers' Party and the Center Party: "Think about how long you've been walking too long" on the road of complaint.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e744	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e749	It's Christmas, and you might not think it was possible, but some of the governments actively give money to, have found it too well to be invaded by peppercakes. While most people are happy to be able to replace gray everyday life with holidays and holidays, Human Rights Service angels don't look down in hiding – they see ghosts at daylight. When Stavanger opened his pepper cake town for a while back, there was a pepper cake house shaped like a mosque. Then the alarm clocks called at HRS's premises. Many may find it strange that I'm talking about peppercake houses when the Stortinget deals with the Justice Budget, but it's unfortunately relevant, because the blog that gets crooked by peppercakes is a post on the state budget – greetings Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. The same blog has also spread a home-layer conspiracy theory that Muslims do not use hand alcohol for religious reasons — it is just nonsense — and encouraged their readers to go out and take pictures of random Muslims. Today we could read on Facebook that Hege Storhaug is using his tax payer-funded hours to analyze online porn searches. The government of Erna Solberg has put forward plans against discrimination and hatred and used a lot of party speech to address hate speech and discrimination. But they are totally overshadowed by the fact that they continue to finance Norway's largest hate blog. There are representatives from the Right and the Left who have said that they are uncomfortable giving money to the Human Rights Service. I understand. However, they end up voting for the Stortinget. This year, their own government – a government of which the Progress Party is not even part – has just as much put money into its own draft budget. I would like to ask someone from the government parties to explain why, but the reason is obvious: without giving the Progress Party what they are pointing to, there is no parliamentary basis for the government. The way to power goes through the Party of Advancement, and the way to the heart of the Party of Advancement is through a pepper-cake-infested hate blog. It is time to stop the funding of actions that polarise, split and nerdy under some of the darkest forces in the country. The working party would rather use this money to support someone who actually combats hatred. The Labour Party will cut the allocation to the Human Rights Service and spend the money on work against hate crime. Pink competences justice is an offer that provides staff in the justice sector and police tools they can use in the fight against hate crime. It is a good measure that deserves money. So if someone didn't get the point, it's not peppercake that's the important thing here. It is that money intended for inclusion should go to inclusion, not to polarization, suspicion and hatred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e762	I can assure the representative, Aasen-Svensrud, that my earring is quite distinguished. I am a little more concerned about the vision of the representative, because if one goes into the budget papers from 2013 to today and reads the figures there, criminal services have increased, net of the operating budget, by more than 1.3 billion. kr. The government has prioritised construction and restoration of prison, which has proved to have been a very big job after eight years of red-green decay. It has also been an important priority to improve conditions for prison entry. New, modern prison buildings have better and safer working and settlement conditions. They facilitate community and smaller isolation. New Agder prison was clearly in place earlier this year and marked an important rise for Norwegian criminal justice. The prison has 300 shelters for men at a high level of security, divided into two departments, in Fromand and Mandal. The prison contains several new modern digital solutions that will make prison love life easier and safer. In 2020, funds were allowed to start work on the rehabilitation of the Ila prison and detention centre, and this work will continue in 2021. Now there's a new Oslo prison. The ratios there have long been criticised, and in the budget for 2021 there is an additional 46.3 million. to continue the important design work. The government party has prioritised security in prison. Several body scanners, screening machines, the introduction of saliva masks and the introduction of service numbers in place of names added are all measures that have been requested by the criminal services of their organisations, and they have been listened to. The number of inserts is approximately the same as the number of inserts, which gives a good balance. The content of health and activity services for interventions is reinforced by several concrete measures. In addition, regulatory changes are being worked out for the purposes of isolation, the use of coercive agents and physical screening. I am particularly pleased that our government is busy with safe and equivalent reconciliation conditions for women. In addition to new, organised settlements established both in Europe and in Bergen, women who are seriously mentally ill receive a new health supply through the creation in 2021 of a private national resource team at Bredtveit in prison. There will also be a priority for an own activation team in criminal services. Overall, these are important measures to improve the conditions for their deployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e773	A year ago, 19 December 2019, the Workers' Party promoted a proposal to secure daily pay for workers who are victims of trafficking in human beings and the crime of working life. It was unanimously adopted. The matter behind the proposal was so serious that all the parties were shaken: 35 foreign workers had gone without pay since October. They stood without money, without housing, and Christmas approached. In 2013, the employer had been disqualified from the right to do business during his lifetime. He changed his name and was running again. The company was even registered with the Labour Inspectorate as a legally employed company under the name Tradesman AS. Fair Play Build the Oslo bisto workers. So serious was the matter that LO looked away from the requirement to be trade-organised, helped the victims with food, housing and tickets home for Christmas. The company was reported for trafficking in human beings. The case was closed just before 1 May of this year, paradoxically, for capacity reasons. The order was appealed, the anchor was rejected. The leader of the LO called ‘attention’ and called the facility a threat to workers, Norwegian working life and the Norwegian welfare state, followed by a force expression that probably would not have passed from this pulpit. This is just one example. The trade union movement now requires the government to start calling such crime by its proper name: pay theft — not unprofessionalism, not underpayment, not to drive on the side, not to make the knit, but to make the regular theft. An employer who steals risks a little. An employee who steals risks fines and up to six years in prison. The government has just proposed its own criminal code for theft of wages and salaries at the hearing, and that is good, but – and it is a great but – the provision is proposed in the Working Environment Act, and it does not last. Today, we see employers circumvent the rights of employees by calling them contractors or self-employed workers. And it's a sad fact that the rate of settlement of work environment issues is 50 pst.–80 pst., whether crime is never so gross. This must be investigated, not laid down. Theft of wages and salaries must be included in the penal code, as the trade union movement requires. The penalties provided for under the Working Environment Act are neither comprehensive enough nor strict enough. It is a pity that the Solberg government is putting so little effort into the fight against the gross exploitation of workers. ABE cut is more important. The result is that the police lack capacity, the Labour Inspectorate carries out less supervision. The Labour Party wants serious exchange and pay theft of workers to be included in the penal code. Facts about the size of the table are required, and the information flow between the levels needs to be improved. All the parties have to think about how shocked they were about last year's revelations and support the three proposals the Labour Party is promoting in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e788	: I am the case rapporteur for document 8:115 S, on juvenile and gang crime, promoted by the representatives Per-Willy Amundsen and Kari Kjønaas Kjos. I just want to say as case rapporteur that I think it is important to emphasize in the presentation of this, after what has been in the media until now, and what has been said in the Chamber, that there are nine proposals for which there is either a unanimous committee or a very broad majority, and that most of them are the result of a cooperation between all the parties in the Committee. Seven of the nine proposals that are going through today have been promoted in the UK in the past, from 2016 to 2017 and over a four-year period. They have voted down to now, but today they have a majority. We would be well served that we all show that this is the result of a broad cooperation between many parties – parties that have worked on this for several years, and parties that have now joined it through this process in the committee. To mention some of it as it is very gratifying that there is a committee position behind now, the measures for increasing the withdrawal of criminal money are. The criminal economy in Norway is estimated to be 145 billion. kr, while the annual withdrawal by the police of criminal money has been between 100 million. NOK 300 million and SEK 300 million. kr in the last 20 years, if you look at the statistics. So we're not close to catching up to the criminal economy. That is why the proposals for withdrawal, which are now being promoted and adopted today, are very important. A proposal, which is also a committee position behind it, is on civil law withdrawal, which will be a very important tool. It has been at the hearing, and the government received the investigation in February 2017, but has not yet addressed it. In addition, the majority actually endorses the proposal on care. The right is saying that they consider it, while the other parties want the government to impose a duty of care on those who hold criminal funds. I would also like to mention the committee position on a national exit programme and on the need to reintroduce statistics on bodily damage with knives, and I would like to mention that it is a broad majority to impose a visitation and residence ban aimed not only at individuals but also at those who commit crime in specific areas. There are a number of other proposals on which there is a happy agreement, but which I do not manage to get in. I just want to say in the end, as a central party explanation of vote, that with regard to the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal to ban machete, the Senter Party will vote for it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e807	For most people, the security of life and health is the highest. That is why the budget to be adopted today is important for most people. Norway is mainly a good and safe country to live in, but in some areas we have challenges that are simply not acceptable. As several representatives have been involved, and the representative Amundsen referred to, we have among other things. a major problem with regard to recriminalism, where we are also dealing with a separate representative proposal on this subject today. It makes the impression when you meet people who have been exposed to recriminalism — completely unmotivated, completely without a reason, on a very common day, where you chose to walk in your neighbourhood. The experience this person had is in stark contrast to living in a safe and good country. When he also says that he refuses to report the incident in fear of represals, it is simply totally unacceptable. It's not just here in Oslo this is a problem. Reciprocal crime is a problem that predominates over Oslo. That is why I am pleased that, through the budget agreement, we are increasing the appropriations by 60 million. In order to combat recriminalism and at the same time to strengthen all police districts by 100 million. kr in addition to what was proposed by the government. This must be combated. I come from the Vesterålen and live in a place called Hernes in the municipality of Hadsel. It's a beautiful little village. In size it is not possible to reproduce, but the availability of the police is also important in such places. If we look around the country, there's actually a lot of places like that. Therefore, strengthening the police is generally important. We had in our alternative state budget a big boost of 500 million. kr, simply because it is about security and security for people, regardless of where you live in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e826	It is true, as the previous speaker said, that we are not just dealing with the budget today; we are also dealing with the representative proposal of the Progress Party, which is about action against juvenile and recriminal crime. A lot of suggestions have been made here. SV rejects the vast majority, and it's due to three relationships. Firstly, we believe that the premise is wrong. It is not true that this is a major problem in Norway. I don't understand where the Progress Party is picking up those numbers. The second premise is also wrong — the fact that increasing penalties for this group would have a deterrent effect. Where they have this from, what kind of professional coatings they have for such a claim, I don't know either. The third reason why we reject this is that several of the proposals are purely provocation. The fundamental principles of the rule of law are most strongly challenged in this proposal. I'll come back to it. The basic premise here is that this is a major growing problem and that it requires intervention. No, that's not right. Here in Oslo has, for example, juvenile delinquency fell until 2016. There has been a slight increase in it up to this year, but it has actually fallen slightly again after the pandemic situation occurred almost one year ago. That's about. 200 young repeaters in Oslo. That figure has not increased in particular if you adjust for the increase in the population and also the expansion of the Oslo police district. So this isn't a big problem. The police will reject the fact that this is a big and growing problem, as the Progress Party is trying to make it sound like. The most important challenge to justice in Norway, as I mentioned earlier today, is, in fact, violence in close relations and rape. This is where the police are drowning in reports. It's not in this area. The second premise that makes us reject this is that punishing harder is good medicine. I just don't understand that. There are none of the proposals from the Progress Party here that address the prevention aspects. If you study how the development of the rule of law and crime is elsewhere in the world, there is no link between severe punishment and low crime. In the States of the United States with the death penalty, there is also no fewer killings, rather the opposite. So there's no such relationship that the Progress Party is trying to make it sound like. Perhaps the most provocative thing about the proposal here is that the Progress Party thinks you should be punished for where you live, not what you have done. In addition, parents are to be punished for what they have done. Thus, a former Minister of Justice wants to depart from this proposal. I think it's very serious. The best thing would have been that the majority of the Judicial Committee had only ignored this whole proposal, because it is based on such wrong principles and so fundamental a lack of respect for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e841	The left takes mistakes when they boast that there have been 2,000 new operative policemen. From 2014 to 2018 there were 1,091 more police officers in the districts, but less than half were approved for patrol services. It's important to bring it with you. The fasitism of response time is that it was slightly worse at the end of 2020 than it was in 2016. The reason why the response time requirements have not been met is simply that there have been no more police out there among the people following this reform. Policemen fill up police houses in the big cities and are not in the streets. There is also a poor response time when policemen are being moved away from communities in mass numbers. It's banally simple logic. In Dagsnytt 18th October, the programme leader Right-wing spokesperson Peter Frölich confronted the fire department with a faster response than the police when something serious has happened. Then Frölich replied: that's because the fire service is decentralised. The centre party could not say better itself. None of the ministers of justice from the government has been able to document a single extra patrol that follows the near-police reform. We have seen serious consequences of the police being remote, so that people have had to wait for hours or completely in vain for the police when something serious happens. Local communities in which the U.S. Office is closed have marked large expense increases as a result of the disappearance of local police. For example, in the Municipality of Salangen in Troms, overtime costs to the volunteer fire service increased from approximately NOK 20 000 in 2016, when they had a local Länsmannskontoret, to approximately NOK 400,000 in 2019, when they had lost their Länsmannskontoret. This is not because there have been more fires, but it is because the police are too far away when something serious happens. Then we can ask ourselves what happened to the robust police that the government would achieve. So for the criminal services, which are very important – of course for their part, the part that we all have to take if we break the law and get convicted for something, but not least for the rehabilitation and prevention effect of their part, the part of the soning that should make the most possible well, on a firm ground, and not end up on a smooth slope again after settlement. The centre party has committed funds for better staffing in criminal services. We understand, however, that it takes a lot more than several years to ensure proper pay conditions for everyone and conditions that make it even more meaningful to work in criminal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e854	A few words about the nine proposals that have been put forward regarding recriminalism: it is important to maintain a low level of juvenile and juvenile delinquency in Norway. The vast majority of young people do not commit crimes. That's the main picture. But we see that in some, less environment there can be crowds, where there will be a risk to those who are involved, and there will be increased crime, strong internal control, coercion, threats and rewards and negative social power use. This has to be broken up, and then the police have to have tools that can do something about the situation. It is important to remember that there are many reasons why young people commit criminal acts. Measures to prevent juvenile delinquency do not necessarily lie in the justice sector. I want to point to housing policy. If there's congestion, it's clear that the youth is looking out on the streets. It is important to take into account in urban and congested areas that young people have a place to get out and get to work in a good youth environment. Therefore, recreational activities are very important. It's a key, and it's one of the best tools for aliens. That's why we're very happy that the card is coming. There has to be a conscious action we are doing, to expand leisure and cultural services for young people. The same is true at school and in the cultural school. That is where prevention must lie. Youths must have arenas where they learn to master life. The voluntary sector is a very important factor in combating crime here. We believe that the proposal for withdrawal is good. We have to be able to look at that. We also believe that we need to find measures to break the subculture that a gang can form, with good measures. Then I would like to highlight the decision-making point that concerns the establishment of exit programmes, which will give the recriminal better opportunities to permanently break out of the criminal environment. It is important that these measures fall within the scope of the Child Protection Act. That Christian People's Party seems to be a matter of course. I would like to point out that as the son of a policeman, I am very closely involved in the police reform. It's very interesting, especially after the Yard Commission. I see the significant strengthening it has been on the crew and competence. Then it's the "near" term, then, that's difficult. I choose to interpret it so that the near-police reform means getting closer to crime, and we now see results of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e872	I guess we've all known about the feeling someday of not being part of it. It's a demanding experience. As a member of the Health and Care Committee, I know such a group. They don't quite belong in health care, but they don't belong in prison either, and the municipalities say they can't give a good enough offer to these people. For 20 years in a town in Rauma, a man named TV 2 used to refer to as "nabokrenker" earlier this year. It's about plagiarism, abuse, harassment, even people who are being threatened with murder. An entire local environment gets its quality of life ruined. Unfortunately, too many such cases exist. The threshold for mandatory mental health protection is high, prison is not a permanent solution for these, and municipalities are struggling to achieve a good follow-up of the individuals. The councillor in Vennesla recently called an alarm in the field and pointed out that the penal code is completely wrong with this group. He said to his father's friend: ‘This is a group that falls between all chairs and is difficult to care for. There is a common challenge for both the police, the municipality and the hospital.’ These repetitions are considered to be too ill for prison but for healthy to long-term admission to mental health protection. The person does not get better, the family and the community live with anxiety about what the person can find the next time, and he repeatedly commits crime, such as warfare, theft and burglary. Here society has failed the individual, who really needs help, but also all those around who have to live with the consequences of their actions. I admit that there is probably not a smart fix here, but the government has not done the job in this field either. Justice, the municipality and health services should have had a real boost in the state budget to be able to follow up this group better – unfortunately they do not. Cooperation between sectors must also be strengthened, I think. The Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Lene Vågslid, has called for the development of a security home where justice, health and local authorities can meet in a better way than a sheep today. It's an idea that is absolutely worth following up. Under this government, things have also been done that have made this situation worse. One has cut over 800 days in psychiatry. This makes it more difficult for this group to get help, while others who needed a place are being pressured out of mental health protection. The working party and the rest of the opposition have repeatedly made proposals to stop this reduction in daily space. The party of progress and the government have voted against. We can't be satisfied with the situation in the field as it is today, but at least we have to expect that we won't make it even worse for these while waiting for new and better solutions. This is about how we're dealing with some of those who need it the most, although they're not always as easy to help. It's also about actually delivering on the security of everyday life to most people, as the Minister of Justice also spoke extensively about in his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e892	In June 2019, the Civilombodsmann provided a specific report to the Norwegian Government on the isolation and lack of human contact in Norwegian prisons. Over several years, Norwegian authorities have received international criticism of the use of insulation. Among other things, the United Nations Torture Committee has expressed strong concerns about the extent of long-term isolation and that the conditions for use of isolation have not been sufficiently clear. The most alarming aspect of the Civilombodsman’s report is that the widespread use has not caused the behaviour of the inmates, but economic or practical challenges in prison. For periods, half of all isolation in Norwegian prisons has been caused by lack of activity, understaffing or lack of community territory. Isolation can cause both physical and mental health damage and, of course, is something that needs to be avoided to the greatest extent possible. Existing additions are decisive to create security and reduce the need for isolation. It was also made clear in the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee, when one was dealing with this report. But what happens? Criminal services are constantly reporting manning cuts, and even more cuts are being made as a result of the increase in ABE reform from 0.5 to 0.6 pst. in the budget agreement. In the class struggle this week, the headline was that cheap snouts give prison snouts. The result of the budget agreement is that several members of the Norwegian prison have to go, according to the trustees, who believe that the police in the South-West are in trouble. The Director of Criminal Services in the region of South West has sent a letter to the Directorate on the situation. There's a $25 million cut. kr for the region, and there will be denunciations. The government has promised to correct the situation in order to avoid isolation, and that inserts will receive health care in line with others, but I can't see that this will be followed up in a good way. The Minister of Health has instructed healthcare professionals to create an area function for mental health protection in prison, but there is one problem: it does not include money. The centre has supported the presence of mental health protection in Norwegian prisons, but it is quite wrong to believe that this can be achieved without funding. We have 40 million in our budget. kr to create an area function in Norwegian prison, together with an ear-marked bet of 300 million. to strengthen mental health protection. There are major capacity challenges in mental health protection today, including security psychiatry. In order to improve the situation of detention in Norway, we also need to improve the economy and the capacity for mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e905	Hat crime is a serious social problem that needs to be combated. This government has done a lot in this field, and next year's budget strengthens this work further. Seven million. SEK shall be allocated to police posts in the context of a national competence environment and SEK 3 million. kr shall go to research. Hat crime is criminal acts motivated by hatred or negative attitudes towards people with a particular outlook on life, religion, skin color, national and ethnic origin, orientation or function. The problem is very serious both for those directly affected and because it strikes indirectly by creating fear in the population. The government will strengthen the prevention work by establishing a national competence environment to support all police districts. The funds will also go to research to increase the understanding of hate crime. The police have already done a lot of important work in this field. At the same time, notification statistics show that, in part, there are wide variations in the number of reviews of hate crime between districts. This leads to different experience in concrete matters. The national competence environment will be a valuable contribution to further raising the police’s efforts to prevent and combat hate crime. This is how police work is more similar wherever you live. I am very pleased that this problem is taken seriously, and that people who expose others to such actions can be investigated and punished. I'm optimistic. I think this can be combated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e918	To the representative Amundsen – I just want to make a comment: there is little evidence that punishment itself works. It is the very content of the punishment that works and is the success criterion. But it is far more liberating to hear the Amundsen when he talks about the imprisonment of children, and – as the rest of the position – will provide support for the HRS hate blog with community money. He's now at least for what he means. The amundsen doesn't wrap it up, and then it's easier to see the dividing lines between the right and the left. Right mumble when it comes to children in prison, but they stand for a policy that just jails kids in high-security prisons for adults. So they mumble when it comes to support for HRS, but the support, it gives them. It would have been liberating if the Right could be as clear as the Advance Party, all the time the policy is quite equal. Then I would like to make a recommendation to the Council of State and to the representatives of the Right: when you are around the prisons, not among professional pride and politeness that everything is on the rails. I wish I could stand here on the pulpit and say, "Yes, there's optimism in criminal custody, people call in the office and say yes, now they're on. But even with Christmas in hand, there's a sense of tongue out there, people are self-appointed and frustrated, because all it's about is that it has to be cut in the budgets. So we know that if criminal services get some money, for example. a resource team, they deliver incredibly fast and incredibly well. But note, when the representative says that it is a ‘national’ measure — it is not because it is nationwide. In Bredtveit, there are women from all over the country, so it can be called national. But this is tricking with words. I asked in my first post that the Council of State or, possibly, someone else from the Right could explain what appears to me to be a mismatch between the KDI and the Department in terms of numbers. Does the KDI fail when clarifying the operational budget cuts? Could someone please tell me?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e929	Social security and preparedness are one of the main areas of government activity, which is clearly identified in the 2021 justice priorities. In the Right, we're particularly happy with the 139.1 million prizes. kr in order to initiate the construction project and further establish the new fire and rescue personnel ball in Teldsund. The new technical ball will mean an important boost to the competence of the fire and rescue service and fire protection throughout the country. With this commitment, the school will be able to train 160 students a year, and with it it will enable all municipalities in the country to have the professional and professionally qualified fire and rescue services. The proposal to the Rescue Company will be increased by 15 million. kr for the operation of a new rescue skate in Vardø. The rescue company is an important part of the civil rescue resources in Norway and contributes to efficient and safe maritime rescue and preparedness along our entire coast. The stretch from Båtsfjord to the border with Russia is the longest stretch in Norway, which today has no cover for a rescue shadow. A large part of the events recorded by the Head Rescue Center along the Finnmark coast are located just outside Vardø and east of Vardø. A permanent manned shelter in Vardø will therefore ensure a marine rescue service with good local knowledge and faster response time and provide increased security for fishermen and coastal populations in the area. 16 new rescue helicopters of type AW101 SAR Queen will replace the Sea King helicopters we have today. The first new rescue helicopters were put into operation at the Sun on 1 September of this year, and with it the rescue service has already received a substantial lift. According to the plan, all helicopters shall be operated during 2022. The new rescue helicopters will have far better range, greater speed and ability to operate in almost all types of weather conditions. Within a few years, this will provide much faster and safer preparedness for both land and sea throughout Norway. In the Right, we are not least pleased that the civil defence in the budgetary negotiations with the Progress Party has been granted an additional 25 million. to go to the regional strengthening of staffing and input materials in our 20 civil defence districts. This option increases the flow rate of 13.3 million. kr that has been purchased annually in civil defence. Civil defence is a very important strengthening resource for the other actors responsible for maintaining social security and preparedness in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e940	Next year, ten years have passed since the terrorist attack on the Workers' Party and Norway killed 77 people. In Norwegian history it will be standing as the heaviest day in modern times, and it will be one before and after this day. I must say ten years later that I am disappointed at where Norway has come, both in the field of preparedness and in the field of right-wing extremism. We saw this in the worst way when we saw how weak we were again when a Norwegian right-wing extremist attacked the Al-Noor mosque in Bærum. Thanks to the heroism of two grandfathers, we avoided a mass slaughter of Muslims. Because that day again many serious errors were made. Firstly, there had already been a warning about the terrorist. The police didn't find the way. The mosque had not been informed that there was an increased terrorist threat to them. And perhaps most serious: the alarm did not go to the police even when they were told that a white man shot in a mosque with a camera on his helmet. It was defended that the police had too little experience and did not know what to do. To me it says something about that we haven't had enough attention to this, about the dangers of racism and hatred. I would like to know what the eight Justice Ministers, Mrs Solberg, have appointed, have done in this field. I don't know what kind of questions and demands they've made to the police, but what we know is how some of these justice ministers have contributed to firing the comment fields. We know the story of what led to Sylvi Listhaug's departure. What has been too little told about is that, according to her conspiracy theory, the PST reported that the number of hate messages was tripled – due to the activity of the Minister of Justice. I would like to know what the Minister of Justice thinks about having been in government with her for five to six years. Let me conclude with a small but symbolic post on the Minister of Justice's budget, for this year, too, without the Advance Party, the government is almost $2 million. SEK for the Human Rights Service. Not only is it wasted on taxpayers' money, it's also a dangerous item because this is a racist blog that encourages the harassment of Norwegian Muslims. The Minister of Justice writes in the budget that the grant will contribute to providing better knowledge of integration and immigration in the population, including knowledge of opportunities and challenges. I believe that the Minister of Justice, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party must come up on this pulpit and say what kind of knowledge about integration and immigration it is Human Rights Service contributes to that which is positive for society. They can't just cover themselves behind the praises they got from Per-Willy Amundsen, because it's their government that proposes to spend $2 million. kr on this. From the Labour Party we are clear: if the new government and the new Minister of Justice, that will be the first thing she removes, the first day at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e953	The year that we are about to leave behind has given us a strong reminder of the importance of building a complete preparedness. When large and small crises occur, there are many institutions and functions to function, and they also have to interact. What we have learned is the importance of the role of civil protection. Civil defence is divided into 20 districts and consists of 8 000 officials, and the task of civil protection is to provide additional personnel and equipment when emergency and emergency seats need support. It is important that we recognise the important role of civil defence when accidents and disasters occur. In order to fulfil this role, both personnel and equipment must be available. What we know about today's civil defence is that there is a need for equipment and personnel. That is why, in our alternative state budget, we have proposed a total of 150 million. DKK, of which 100 million. proposed to be used for new acquisitions, for increased education and for people who are required to provide services. When the accident or disaster occurs, it is definitely not the right time to start training of personnel, nor to start processes for new acquisitions. That's why we give priority to civil defence, precisely because it's about people's security for life and health. Unfortunately, the government doesn't have the same level of ambition as us, but I'm at least happy that we got the budget for the Civil Defense by $25 million. kr in addition to that contained in the government's proposal. Standby's about a lot of things. In Tjeldsund is Norway's fire school, and those who have been to Tjeldsund will agree with me that here we can really talk about a national school out in the district. What I'm very satisfied with is the bet that's being made here. It's suggested to spend $139.1 million. kr to put the shovel in the ground to build new school and new infrastructure. This means that the first students can actually take place in the new two-year college in 2023. This is good preparedness work, which the Progress Party has worked for, and which we have been concerned about. That is why it is also a good day for preparedness and for the security of most people. «I'm an optimist I know it's going well at last». [[...]] I think the fire school is a good proof of that. And, "Oh, oh, oh, so happy I'll be" the day school opens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e968	It's almost Christmas, and then it's time for a Christmas greeting home. And if you do one Christmas greeting, maybe you can do two. That's at least my goal with this post. Both things were started by the red-green government and so far well followed up by today's government. But in the hopeful language, it would be said that the downfall is not quite in line. The Christian People's Party Tskedal boasted of the new rescue helicopters. And let me be clear: it's very much to boast of the new rescue helicopters for. At the same time, the film "Tat of the Wind" has finally got its sequel: Tatt of the Rotor Wind. It was known that the new rescue helicopters had some challenges that they had much stronger rotor wind, which could blow both cyclists and strollers over the end and thus also cause landing problems. That is why the Stortinget decided in 2011 to purchase new rescue helicopters while saying that the landing possibilities in hospitals that used today’s rescue helicopters were to be adapted. Unfortunately, that has not happened. The same thing applies to Agder. The Minister of Justice said earlier in the fall that when it came to Arendal, they should be able to land on Gullknopf or Kjevik. When I challenged the Minister of Health in a written question, he said that for Health South-East the rescue helicopters would largely fly past the entire Agder and only land on Ullevål or the Rikshospitale. It's something quite different from what you've decided in Stortinget in the past, and what you've given the impression before. At the same time, it is also very special that the government's proposal to the State budget has commented that rescue helicopters are going to solve some of the time challenges we face in the field of health. It's not related, and here the Minister of Justice should talk to the Minister of Health and make sure that there are proper landing opportunities at the hospitals we have. The other local case is one that was started by then Justice Minister Grete Faremo, who is about new prisons at Agder. These plans first put the government parties in a drawer. Fortunately, they remembered the drawer they had put in, and today we have great new prisons in Agder, both in Mandal, in Evje and in Fromland. But what is not related here is that the government has at the same time laid down the open settlements in the region. Both the court in Arendal, which worked well, and Kleivgrend in Fyresdal are laid down. So while a massive effort has been made on new and modern closed prisons, the open prisons in Agder have been removed. It's not related if we want people to succeed in rehabilitation at the same time, because this is about who the Minister of Justice and everyone else will get back as good neighbors one day. Then it has to be that if you come from a closed lounge, there is also the possibility of going through open grounds, so that you have the best conditions to get back to society in a good way. Unfortunately, the government has not delivered in Agder. They've delivered in the new prisons, but they've forgotten that we also need shelters that are open, for the way back to society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e981	The representative Klinge quoted me from Dagsnytt 18 and said that I had said that the fire service in Norway was a decentralised duty in many places. That is quite correct, but a significant point is also to point out that it is based on part-time, that it is part-time and voluntary in many places as well. Unless the Central Party believes that volunteering and part-time service are also relevant to the police, this becomes a pointless comparison. It has been very interesting at all to follow the parade march of the Center Party with election vows in the field of justice. I think all the answers are largely due to a variant of near-northmen throughout Norway, where the Nordics live, etc., but it is largely completely free of substance. Those who follow justice policy closely notice that there is something that is serious about it. Many people may ask themselves: the centre party, ‘what are you hiding from me?’ The alternative budget is theirs, for example. is based on withdrawing from the EEA and discontinuing the payment of the quota to the EEA from two weeks in time. So from 1 January it was supposed to end with large payments to the EEA. Treaty conflict — it would throw Norway into a financial crisis. We would most likely be met with penalties. Already there is the entire alternative state budget of the Center Party and their election vows completely undressed. It's totally unrealistic. When did this form of communication become normalized in Norway — without critically following it in the public debate, from the media, etc.? It's time for a settlement with this kind of promises to the voters. What lies hidden there is most likely gigantic lifting fractures, which the voters are going to discover at some point. It's a spiral to the bottom, where the entire credibility of Norwegian policy is drawn into the pulley. Let's look at some of the priorities that the Central Party has done in its alternative budget: they're cutting 500 million. I'm a bureaucrat. Let's think about these items. It is cut in the DSB, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, in the middle of a pandemic. There is a great deal of ICT security, there is an attack on the administration of the Court, where digitisation of sound and image become harmful – all these are projects that the majority in this Chamber have accepted. And to put it that way: consultants and external consultants are fy-fy. External consultants who work with equipment for the police, police helicopters, new emergency services, digitisation of the justice sector, to mention something, are cut off altogether. The only external consultants accepted in the Central Party are those who are to be hired to conduct a criminal evaluation of the court administration at the Central Party's own order.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e994	Ensuring life and health is the country's most important task. We are probably more prepared at national level to face crises like terror than we were ten years ago, but we still have weaknesses in preparedness that should be addressed better. Firstly, local preparedness is not a high enough priority. The resources for preparedness in the municipalities do not match the obligations of the municipalities. Secondly, poor ability to interact was a central part of the criticism of the 22nd July Commission, and the interoperability problems have not yet been resolved. Thirdly, target and performance management is creating new challenges for preparedness. The wholeness of preparedness is undermined by many detailed objectives that often cannot be prioritised. There are also more specific shortcomings, areas of the Workers' Party will strengthen in this budget: It's now sketching and skiing. Voluntary organisations ensure that we can walk safely in the fields and in the mountains. The working party will ensure free access to emergency networks for the voluntary rescue service – a significant cost for them today. The many volunteers provide security for people both at mountain and at sea. The working party is proposing 350 million. to eliminate VAT on voluntary activities, in order to give them even better conditions. The working party will consume 30 million. to strengthen the DSB to support municipalities in the preparation of ROS analyses and contingency plans and to increase exercises locally. New rescue helicopters are a promise for readiness, but we already knew in 2011 that it had to be repaired to be able to land where Sea King is doing today. Here is the government by form, and the Workers' Party wants a plan in this budget for how to put in place the needed improvements quickly. Greater efforts are also needed on research on preparedness and social security, on training cryptologists and ICT security candidates and on management training in fire and rescue services. Preparedness is not just about dollars and cents, but in this budget the government should have taken action to remedy some of the deficiencies. So finally, the representative Per-Willy Amundsen said in his first post today that the Human Rights Service is the only counterpower available. Then the question is, To what? They're almost 2 million. Dr, who goes to the Human Rights Service on the state budget today, has been given the reason that it should provide better knowledge of immigration and integration into the population – better knowledge. Then I have a simple question to the Right, Left and Christian People's Party: Does the Christian People's Party, Left and Right mean that the Human Rights Service does it? If they say no to that question, it's eye-catching, but what's even more eye-catching is if the government parties answer yes to that question. Everyone has seen the suspicion, the eviction and the polarization that this hate blog is doing, today paid by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1019	The representative Ingunn Foss has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1025	It is very special to listen to the representative from the Workers' Party, who says that we have not done anything on standby, when all the points in the Gjørv Commission have been followed up. And it's very special to listen to the representative Jenny Klinge, who talks about the small loner offices, because they necessarily have to be small – yes, please, little and very few – when you look at the sum of the Senter party set aside for this on next year's budget. Thirty million. I guess it's kr. It's not the officers' offices that give us the security. Small cane offices on everyone's nose can't deal with the crime we're seeing today. The representative is talking about being close. Where is it important to be close? Yes, where crime happens. Today it is happening largely online. I would say that the police are closer than ever to those who really need it. There is little reason to be optimistic about the central party's policy, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1032	There are some people's reactions in Norway, but there is one that we really lack, and that is the people's reaction to better legal certainty and better free legal aid. Because in Norway there is a huge legal loss for people with low incomes, who need the same legal certainty as all of us. A NOU 2020:5 has come to address the legal aid system. It says: ‘A State governed by law may not be inaccessible to vulnerable groups, since there is no State governed by law.’ It's a pretty strong and serious statement. I feel that neither the Storting nor the government has taken this very seriously in quite many years. I may be particularly missing Right, because the Right and SV have been very much in agreement on these principles that the rule of law applies to everyone. We may disagree on the distribution policy, but I have come to realize that, despite everything, it doesn't mean that there should be social divisions in whether you get right when you're right, and that you have to have equal access to the justice system if you're poor or rich. But it's not like that, and everyone who sits here knows it. Now almost no one serves so little that they come under the income requirement, except for students and some social welfare recipients. Yes, even if you're young, you make too much money today. I know a lot of young people, and they really can't afford to hire a lawyer to get help in their legal disputes. So here there's really a need to raise the rates significantly. Thus, the coverage of this scheme has halved since 2003. It's halved and not strengthened. We're kind of going to become a more and more modern society, and everyone's talking about how the differences are going down. In this area, the differences increase enormously, of course also as the economic differences increase. Here, there is a need both to strengthen and extend the system – not least for some of those that several others have been up and talking about, and which I wish I had had time to talk about, namely many of the victims of violence and the women who unfortunately are killed by a perpetrator who is well-known in advance, and where the warning lights have flashed for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1050	In the debate on our District Courts, I said that the map must be in line with the terrain, and that we had a good example at the Magnormo Police Station, on the Norwegian-Swedish border, which is a positive example of policy sometimes voting in such a way that there is consistency between maps and terrain. The police station Stortinget will adopt 10 million. Through this state budget, the Workers' Party is very positive. We've lifted it up in an interpellation here this fall just to get ahead of work on realising the police station at Magnormoen. There are some important reasons why we believe this is a wise policy for the country, for both security and economics. First of all, we know that border crime is a at least equal problem when, for example, one. Come in to Oslo. Preventing early at the border also frees resources for the police further into the country. At Magnormoen there is a lot of traffic from Karlstad to Oslo, and the corresponding path is the opposite, which brings with it problems for the police on both Norwegian and Swedish sides. That's why the Workers' Party also has 10 million. kr in our option, because we believe this bet is absolutely correct, and we are very happy that it will now come into place. We also expect the Minister of Justice now to put full pressure on the establishment of that police station, for the Swedish government, and their minister with similar responsibilities, to be ready to start construction. In conclusion, I would like to say that this kind of policy of wisely investing one place to pick up gains and savings elsewhere is something we see too little in Norwegian policy in practice. If we're going to go a parallel, it's obvious that all of the people who are now out of work could easily both get a better life and contribute to our country if they came to work. So we're going to lose that omission a lot financially. This case is therefore an excellent example of how wise it is to think and see things in the context, and we would like much more of that if we get a new large number after the next election.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1063	It is rare to get such a demonstration in total ignorance as what we have seen in this room today, especially from the Aukrust representative and the representative Henriksen, who calls the Human Rights Service, HRS, for a racist hate blog. It's very special. It shows that these are representatives who obviously do not know the history of Norwegian integration policy, who do not even know that they have been involved in adopting concrete proposals – even the Workers' Party – from the HRS this autumn. If it hadn't been for HRS, this sprawling would have made a big loss earlier in the harvest by not criminalizing parents who don't prevent coercion and sexual mutilation. Because that's what the truth is. HRS has been a premiscuous supplier throughout the political debate for 20 years. They have submitted documentation, proposals that have been taken into consideration and that have been implemented — much of it. HRS has gone ahead. But that shows the authoritarian features of the Workers' Party and, to a large extent, SV, of course, and the Center Party when you have to remove 1.8 million. kr, small money, and there is a big debate around it, which is the only counter-power towards nearly 40 million. kr used by so-called immigrant organisations which are nothing but left-wing political activism with state funding. It really shows intolerance. It may be that ‘nothing is new under the sun’, but if you want to understand Norwegian integration policy – and I’ve worked a little on it – you can’t understand it without understanding the Human Rights Service. There are many things that have emerged through HRS. When the so-called Oslo press came to understand the problem of recriminalism, it was absolutely through what the Workers' Party refers to as a racist hate blog, that this information appealed to the public first, which meant that the Oslo media gradually began to take hold of it. But it's clear: for those who want to describe a story that's totally wrong, who want to subdue the Islamic dangerous forces that exist in Norwegian society, by focusing only unilaterally on terror on the right, it's okay to silence the forces that raise important issues that don't suit the Workers' Party. Finally, let me thank the Left and Christian People's Party for making sure that the HRS gets 1.8 million today. kr in State aid for 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1076	The representative Jenny Klinge has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1081	The representative Frölich spoke about the power of action of the government and boasted very much of her, but the power of action is good only if an in fact does something good. If centralisation at a rapid pace leads to strong increases in the use of consultants and bureaucracies, action is not good. According to government accounts, the budget for the justice sector for 2019 was close to 6.3 billion. NOK used for the purchase of consulting services and other foreign services, and SEK 6.3 billion. For kr is almost 1.3 billion. more than the entire criminal justice budget. When it comes to setting up a L.A., it was listed here that we've invested too little money for it, but we've added 30 million. SEK for rent, for both office and police posts. Manning is in other posts, and it's quite possible to move people, since the government has good experience, so the 60 county officials' offices that were laid down in the West Police District, Trøndelag, Inland, Troms and Finnmark, cost for a comparison of 10 million. SEK in rent in 2016, before they were laid down. So we have good coverage for our suggestions, and I should like them to have got multiples.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1088	The representative, Frida Melvær, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1093	The Labour Party continues to debate the fact that the government has cut down and cut down the criminal justice system. Bn. 1,3 kr more for operation and 2,8 billion. More on the necessary investments in criminal services could not possibly be referred to as cutbacks. The ABE reform in criminal matters has released 176 million. kr on the State budget as well as have been redispatched to specifically requested measures in the same department. I think that, as the populace, we have an obligation to use our community's means most accurately and effectively – never in life if I let myself impress the oversupply of the opposition. The country's preparedness and the chain of criminal proceedings have been given a historic and necessary boost with our government. We've guided all segments with competence, with modern equipment and with human resources. We're not in the target, and it's not safe we get there either, the society is changing faster than before, new threats and challenges are still coming up. But we're better equipped to meet these challenges than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1100	It's swinging off this debate. I thought the representative Melvær instead of keeping almost the same post one more time, should answer the question from Maria Aasen-Svensrud, for the question is: If what KDI says, that one has cut over 200 million. to operate in a criminal institution? It does, but it would be nice to get a reflection from the government party linked to the big difference that's on the story that's being delivered here, and the story that we get from the trade directorate. There are many things in one debate here today – by the way, I think that is a mistake – so there will be a little time to talk about the proposal for a representative on juvenile delinquency and recriminalism, but there is the Labour Party very happy that many of the proposals we have been fighting for for years, among others. with Jan Bøhler in the head, now get plural. As Jan Bøhler is involved, there are several parties that are now behind it, both Jan's old party, Jan's new party and several other parties in the Justice Committee. It's very positive. When it comes to exit programs, I would just like to stress that it is important to have exit programs as part of the post-protection system to prevent those who have finished making amends from pulling straight into the car of Egon Olsen, who is on the outside. It is important for the Labour Party, and we also raise it in the budget. An prosecution lift is necessary both to overcome organized crime and to get rid of the SV and Petter Eide as well as said in their post when it applies to power in close relations and sexual abuse. It's not just a social problem, it's one of the most serious crimes we have in Norway, and there would also be an prosecution lift, as the Labour Party is constantly asking for, strongly pleading. It is said by the representative Foss that the Labour Party believes that nothing has been done in the field of preparedness. Then a right unintelligible bad thing has to happen. I have even been quoted by the country's prime minister around in the country's newspapers because I once believed that a lot is good in the national preparedness. But for us who have read the Commission's report, it says crystal clear: what is the most important response resource in Norway? It's the local police. And that's where this government has a lot to answer for, because that reform we were some about in 2015 is not the reform that is being implemented now. A reference to the League of Police that they do not want to go back to before the reform. Neither do we, but we want the reform to be carried out in line with decisions taken in this House, in Stortinget. One doesn't have to have a lot of places to find out that we have a weak near-police, not a strong near-police. I would also like to refer to the post of Lise Christoffersen and just highlight the importance of the fight against wage-earners – to get this into criminal law. I would have hoped for broader support for it. The Labour Party wants a more fair Norway, we want a more stable justice policy and security and justice. That's what I hope we can get in the autumn of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1115	The representative of Aasen-Svensrud asked for help to read the budget. I can see that when you're based on the class struggle's performance. I'll try to help, but I'm not sure if I can do it. In large numbers – I respond to our commitment since 2013 – criminal services have been strengthened by 1.3 billion. kr. It's exclusive construction and rehabilitation, it's as well-known in State Building's budget. There are several employees, there are fewer prisoners. Crime prevention, like any other public sector sector, is subject to an ABE reform. That means that next year you'll have 99.4 pst. of its budget. In addition, you get full compensation for pay and prices, plus that you get bets on both content and on construction. In addition, efforts are addressed both in isolation and in women, because we are seriously addressing the situation there. It's also that KDI is working on a new budget model. It's not about budget cuts, it's about equal distribution, where some prisons are going to get a lot per prison, and some people get a lot less per prison. They're working on that. But that's not a consequence of budget cuts at all. Criminal services have been strengthened throughout all years of this period. So you can't get plus to be negative. It is at all such that all parts of the justice and preparedness field are strongly strengthened. It's important, and it's necessary. I want to say something about readiness. Everyone wants to spend more money on standby, except the Center Party, who wants to cut the DSB in the middle of a pandemic. It's a big responsibility. It's a staff that's been standing around the clock since March 12th, and it deserves a lot of thanks rather than a cut. Eighteen million. NOK is a lot to cut in such a situation. So we've got bigger budgets. We have more people, we have more training, we have more equipment, we have better organisation, we have a new emergency centre, we have started training for all response personnel across the country next year, new helicopters and therefore national response resources, which have been greatly increased. It's been absolutely necessary. It's about the security of the inhabitants of the entire country. This is one of the most important things we're betting on. We do that, and we're still going to do that in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1126	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1132	In this debate, the representatives from the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right have not said one word about the Human Rights Service. In the debate, the Progress Party called the Human Rights Service ‘a premiscuous supplier’ in the political debate. If that's true and they get 2 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. What are the reasons for this silence? It is worth noting that the Progress Party thanks the Left and Christian People's Party for supporting the Human Rights Service. The answer from the Left and Christian People's Party is that they two their hands in silence. It's embarrassing. In the end, the representative Ingunn Foss said that I claimed that nothing has been followed up from the Gjørv Commission. I did not say that, and the Workers' Party has not said that either, but there is a need for us to discuss the weaknesses we have in today's preparation and make it open. Then we can't just dismiss such an important debate with a slogan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1139	Ingunn Foss claimed that the Workers' Party has said that nothing has happened with readiness. I don't think anyone in the Workers' Party has said that. On the contrary, several of the contributions have said that this has happened very well, and that is positive. We support all of that. But what we've pointed out, and as I pointed out in my post, is that it hasn't happened enough. The terrorist attack on the Al-Noor mosque was an example of that, and unfortunately, the police evaluation after Al-Noor was like an echo from the July 22nd Commission. Many of the same mistakes were made. I get really hurt in my stomach every time we talk about this case, because there's not been a settlement with what happened, neither with the hatred that killed a 17-year-old girl, nor with the mistakes that the police made. On the contrary, the only public discussion after the terrorist attack was the one that came from the government when the country's finance minister thought that when the Crown Prince visited the victims, it was an example of sneaking up. It was the public conversation following the terrorist attack on the Al-Noor mosque. So Per-Willy Amundsen spoke of Human Rights Service as a pre-missive for the political debate on immigration and integration in Norway. So it comes from the man Erna Solberg thought was the best qualified to be Minister of Justice in Norway. I think the right one should think about that a little bit. So it meant Erna Solberg was the man who was the most important to protect our everyone's security and work against extremism. He thought this wasn't a racist blog. Well, that's enough of examples to take off. The Human Rights Service believes that the Vy uniform operates with Islamism because it is green. Martin Henriksen presented a few examples of peppercake pissing and porn search. There's things we can laugh at, but that's first and foremost things and examples to laugh at. There are examples of how the Human Rights Service encourages the systematic harassment of Muslims. "Take pictures of Muslims you are looking at the street," urges the Human Rights Service. So this means Per-Willy Amundsen is the most important premiscuous supplier we have. We often talk about lonely wolves. It's not lonely wolves. There are flocks, and they meet online. Hatred and conspiracy theories can hurt, but we have to endure that, but hate and conspiracy theories are above all dangerous. We can't ban everything we don't like, but we don't have to finance it state-owned. The Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right are encouraged in this debate to go up to the pulpit and say why they think we should spend $2 million. kr on this. It's a little post for society, but it's symbolically very important. And there are many people in Norway who are afraid of this blog and who are afraid when the Minister of Justice writes in his budget that she believes this should contribute to more knowledge of integration and immigration. I think the Minister of Justice has to answer. She has so much speaking time she wants in this debate. Does she agree with what Per-Willy Amundsen says? Does she agree with her predecessor in his description of the Human Rights Service? Does she stand for what she has written into the state budget, or does she agree with what the Right-People write on Twitter, that this is wasted use of money? I believe that there must be a right answer. They have a lot of speaking time left in the debate, and I hope they go up to the pulpit. This debate deserves it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1152	The representative Peter Frölich has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1157	I want to comment on some of what Jenny Klinge brought up on the pulpit instead. The Central Party still has a huge explanation problem in this debate. They have made a long list of promises, but they are still left with a police budget that is much smaller than what is adopted in the Chamber today. I think it is particularly serious when they go out and promise that all the janitor's offices will come back again. I would like to remind you of the representative Lundtägen, who this summer traveled all over Buskerud and promised that it would be his own police district, and they would have their own Länsmann office again – 21 municipalities and everyone would get their own Länsmann office. What happened to the fasit? The fasitant was $30 million. kr in the alternative budget of the Centre Party. I don't think you get a lot of loner offices for that price. In meeting this irresponsible budgeting, the Workers' Party should stand up, but they are not getting up just like a Phoenician. With that reference, which I give the grade 0, I want the Committee Merry Christmas and Happy New Year, and thank you for a good cooperation. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1162	The mood is rising. – I agree that violence in close relationships, rape, etc. shall be of very high priority. I am concerned because the projects that have particularly successful results in that field, Dark Room and Sandra, are now closed in 2020, and Spiderweb is closed from the turn of the year. It's not always that the best thing is to put things into the line, into what's called the Joint Investigation and Intelligence Unit, where it is, among other things. must compete with many other heavy fields which may suffer from a difficult priority, such as organised crime and criminal gangs. I just want to say that I'm worried because in the entire state budget proposition is organized crime mentioned in the past three times. You name something with Columbia, and you name it as something "for example" and not as a main focus. It contrasts very much with the report from Ecocrim that we received last week, where organised crime is identified as a very increasing threat in Norway, and where interesting information emerges, among other things. on the link between criminal gangs and those traditionally involved in financial crime. It is now the case that replicators who have lasted a long time develop into backers who are longer and longer behind the crime that others commit for them. They are partly abroad and are more difficult and difficult to beat the police. They use advanced encrypted communications, use cryptocurrency, methods that make the tools available to the police now, which one is in the police districts to follow their communication, no longer function against the advanced methods they use. The same applies to their entering into established, large industries and actually threatening their future, such as fisheries, where Ecocrime points to extensive whitewashing. They use third-party people who don't even have a criminal scroll, as people who respect their values, and who are difficult to get through with current legislation. I hope that we will be able to launch a much stronger effort against organised crime and the combination with traditional economic crime than the one we now have in Norway. We will come back with new proposals for this in the new year. We've proposed 100 million. NOK plus 30 million. In the police districts, special efforts are being made to this end in the budget of the year. It's important to me that we manage to balance the different areas of action we need to have in the future in the police, not just say one thing or another, but manage to have more thoughts in our head at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1171	Maria Aasen-Svensrud has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1176	I am grateful for the answer from the Council of State, but the answer created so many new questions. Of course, the Storting should not interfere in the new budget distribution models of the department, but when I hear that almost all the regions are coming out worse now than before, yes, I think it might have something to do with the large joint allocation. But I don't despair, for when I listen to the Fairytale of New York and know the smell of a decorated Christmas tree, I'll sit down and continue the brooding and write down my questions. Then the council and I will be allowed to meet again, and then I hope for good answers and clear answers, not just for me, but for all those who go to work in prisons around the country. I know they're going to do their very best to create a good Christmas mood in prisons too. I wish them luck and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1181	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has had the word twice in the past and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1186	I thought I'd finish, but now I'm happy to see the representative from the left has drawn, because we need an answer to the challenge from Åsmund Aukarust and more. What does the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left mean about the hallucinations of the HRS? There's an answer coming up. No one has to be in doubt about where they have the Labour Party here. As Åsmund Aukrust said, it will be cut in one day with a new Labour Party government. It's approaching the end. We're about to pull ourselves into the car and run "Mil nach Mil", "Home to Christmas". I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for your cooperation in a demanding fall and a demanding year. I want you all, including the councils, a well-fortressed and good holiday. So thank you for the debate and 'Adjø'.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1193	I guess it's not "Driveing home for Christmas" right yet. We'll have to move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1198	I would just like to stress that HRS is not a prime provider of justice policy in Norway. I am also very pleased that the Minister of Justice has stressed that support for HRS is not the government's priority, but is the result of a previous budget agreement in the Stortinget where there was also a consensus to increase support for other organisations by 17 million. kr. I would just like to stress that I fully agree with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1204	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1209	It's interesting to hear again, once again, that both the representative Auchrust and the representative Henriksen show total lack of history and total lack of knowledge. And again – I allow myself to remember the following: Had it not been for HRS, it would probably not have been possible from 1 January next year to prosecute parents who are subject to forced marriages, who are subjected to sexual mutilation. It is the competence that HRS contributes to Norwegian policy, but the Labour Party obviously does not want it. That shows a lot of the problem. But I took the floor initially because, unfortunately, the presidency must have made a mistake, because two debates have been put together that did not belong naturally. This concerns our representative proposal on recriminalism. Of course, there's nothing we can do about it now, but I have to make it clear that when we come to voting, we want the minority proposal from the Right and the Advance Party, no. 1, set up against X in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1216	It is listed by the Secretariat, so it will be handled. The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1223	It's just to record that the Minister of Justice won't answer. It was quoted from the Left what the Minister of Justice said in the media. Well, we know two things in Stortinget, we know what the Minister of Justice says in Stortinget, and what she writes in the budgets. It's not right what the Left said, that the Minister of Justice said it wasn't a priority, that she can go out and say in the media and when to please people, because she understands how embarrassing this is for the Right Party. In the State budget, Minister of Justice Monica Meland writes that support for the Human Rights Service should contribute to increased knowledge of integration and immigration in Norway, including the challenges it has to face. That's what the Minister of Justice is warning Stortinget about, and I'm just recording that we're not going to get any more answers, either from the Minister of Justice or from the Right. I see the speaking time is up, and the Minister of Justice looks like she doesn't want to take the floor anymore. But then we are told that for the Workers' Party, this battle is not over. The Workers' Party will continue to press the government in this area, for this area is one of the main issues of the Workers' Party's work against extremism, and preparedness there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1228	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 14–16.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1245	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice. 18 to 20 are treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1286	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the allocated speaking time in the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Centre 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes, the Red 5 minutes and the Minister for Transport 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines will be given with replies to the main speakers of the parties and eight lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1295	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control for its good cooperation and flexibility. The timeframes have at times been demanding, to say it that way. I am also pleased that we have now established a budgetary settlement with the Progress Party which further strengthens the transport sector. That's good. A good infrastructure is important for us to have value creation and housing across the country. The big effort on transportation creates activity. Transport is and has been a priority area for both the Right and the Government since we took over in 2013, and it will still be. The transport budget has almost doubled, and we have carried out important reforms. The coronary apathy has given us some extra major challenges, primarily for those who are directly or indirectly affected by the virus, but also for society as a whole, with partial closure and strong limitations in people's everyday lives. In this situation, it is absolutely essential that we have an infrastructure that works, that we have a minimum of air services, that public transport goes, that people have received the necessary goods, and not least that we have a digital infrastructure that allows more people to work from home for a long time. Within the transport area, aviation is the most affected and important measures have been implemented to ensure a minimum of air services from March to now. There are liquidity guarantees, the purchase of air routes and significantly reduced charges. In addition, significant funds have been used to keep aerodromes open. In total, this measure amounts to up to 14 billion. in 2020. These measures are continued in the State budget for 2021 by a preliminary call of 2 billion. kr for the purchase of air routes and the fee exemption is continued. Although there is a lot of evidence that a vaccine is currently in place around the turn of the year, there is reason to expect that what we have seen in 2020 will also affect large parts of 2021 and the transport sector in that context. The Government shall also return to Stortinget with further measures for aviation during January. We're going to have a healthy and good competition in Norwegian aviation even after the Coronapandemic is over. What the new normal will look like is too early to say, and the longer-term assessments are more natural to come back to in the national transport plan. Although we have increased the budget and have a record bet on the road and track, it is not alone enough. We also have to make sure that we get the most back for each of the heads we use on transportation. That is why we have implemented important reforms. At the same time, we must take care of what we have. On the national road network, the maturity has turned to renewal and the maintenance run has been reduced every year since 2015. In 2021, it's reduced by over 1.8 billion. kr, when we take account of the budgetary agreement. It's noticed when we drive along Norwegian roads. The establishment of New Roads has been a success and has shown that it is possible to build roads at both faster and lower cost, and that the social benefits of the projects can be increased. It is estimated that the savings in the portfolio are of 59 billion. kr, of which 25 bn. kr is pure cost reductions. That means that we're getting more weight for each of the heads used. New roads have also challenged the established ways of working. It's good for the State Road Service, too. New organisational structures and new ways of working will produce positive results, and already the State Road Service has identified significant cost savings in its portfolio. The execution of tendering procedures in passenger train transport is good for customers and good for the community. After completing three packages of traffic, we have achieved a total savings of 12 billion. kr during the tendering period, compared with the operation of these sections cost in 2019. This is possible at the same time as the offer to customers is improved. Emissions from transport have been reduced by 15 pst. since 2013. There are many reasons for this, including: a very active electric car policy. Already now the sale of electric cars represents well over 50 pst. of the new car sales, and the share of electric cars is approaching 12 pst. of the car park. The goal of selling only zero-emission cars in 2025 is fixed, and I think it's achievable. Another area where there has been a raging development is the phase-in of low- and zero-emission ferries. At the end of 2022 there will be a battery on board over 80 ferries, which is nearly one third of all ferries. There is a development that contributes to lower emissions, while creating activity and jobs in the maritime sector. There is a significant potential for further activity related to speedboats, short-sea fleet and remaining part of the maritime industry. Norway has a well-developed mobile and broadband network, and now it is also accelerating the development of the 5G network. Good digital access combined with new technologies will take us to the zero-emission society. There are obviously challenges to this, but it also offers great opportunities for more sustainable mobility and a simpler everyday life. So I would also like – if I have the opportunity, President – to bring up proposal No. 28, an unsolved proposal that was made by me on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1327	The representative of Helge Orten has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1334	The chairperson of the Committee made an informative and fine statement. I want to ask him some of the more concrete questions in the committee's position, because a unanimous committee says that the Oslo- Stord air route should be included when the state is going to buy air routes in 2021. But today, December 18, 2020, a letter has expired from the Royal Ministry of Transportation to Stord Lufhamn. It states that the Ministry considers that the need for air travel between Stord and Oslo is met by the temporary purchase of the Haugesund-Oslo route and that the department has not seen the need for purchase on the Stord-Oslo route. I have to say it is strange that that letter goes out from the Ministry of Transport before we have had the budget debate in Stortinget, so I wonder if the committee chairman can clarify the situation. Will the Oslo–Stord air route purchase assessment be included next year, or is the matter rejected in the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1339	I think almost the Council of State will be able to answer for the assessment that the Ministry has made, but from our side we are committed to assessing all the routes in Norway in the situation we are facing. Significant funds have been provided for the purchase of air routes for 2021 – 2 billion. kr – including the FOT route offer. We believe that in this respect we need to make an overall assessment. I do not know the background to the assessments contained in the letter to which the representative Myrli refers. In any case, we now expect to have an ongoing assessment of the air route offer beyond 2021, to have a minimum offer and that both business and citizens can have a satisfactory offer in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1344	Then I expect the committee chairman and the state council to clarify that situation during the day. The letter sent from the department has certainly aroused strong reactions today, in Stord and in Sunnhordland. We're going from air to land. This week the Riksrevision came with a study of Bane NOR. Path NOR is one of the performance projects of this government after the so-called railway reform, but I have to say that something closer to a whole slaughter of how our railway now works, of how the Path NOR works, is probably not possible to find. This is not the Workers' Party and not the opposition that has led in the pen – this is the Riksrevision investigation into Bane NOR. The question to the place, which has been a very keen spokesman for the fragmentation and privatisation we have now received from the railway, is: does such a report from the Riksrevision impress on the committee leader?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1351	I think I'll start by reminding you of the situation we had in 2011-2012, before we took over the government offices in 2013, when there was more or less chaos on the railway, and things didn't work well. The regularity was bad, the punctuality was bad, and there were major challenges to this. I also record the audit report from the National Audit Office, and I see that there is still potential for improvement in the reform we are implementing. At the same time, I would like to point out that what we have done to introduce competition – e.g.: in the three traffic packages that I presented in my post – have led to significant savings in passenger train transport in Norway. What we see that we may have the biggest challenge now is to improve both governance structures and the work on new and large investment projects. There is probably still a bit to go and a potential for improvement in the reform under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1356	At this time, the right has been quite consistent with many of the proposals recommended by the Demography Committee. This selection is led by the old Right-Chairman Victor Norman, who now has visions of district policy. He's a forerunner, among other things. lower ferry prices, which we have proposed and which the government parties have voted down. He is in favour of better infrastructure also on the county roads and broadband everywhere. I would like to mention that the central party's investment in county roads in More and Romesdal is at 151.4 million. kr more than the government has in 2021. I guess nothing came to More and Romesdal. But how can the government parties repeatedly vote against what Norman points to as the solution for the whole country, and also vote against our proposal to maintain the coastal sites in Ålesund, Bergen and Kabelvåg?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1361	Nils T. Bjørke had here taken over the president's seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1366	There were many questions at once, but I have read with interest some of the suggestions that Victor Norman and his selection have made. I think there are a lot of exciting suggestions. It is clear that ferry costs are a significant restriction on mobility around, especially along our coast. I myself live in a municipality on an island that is very dependent on ferries. We will continue to work on improving the ferry service. That's what we've been doing in the years we've been running. At the same time, it is important for us to make sure that we get the transition to low- and zero-emission ferries that are now being done in a great way, where the county councils also do a good job. With regard to the proposal that the representative referred to on the reduction of ferry prices, I cannot see that I find so much of it in the budget of the Central Party, at least not as monks in that context. So there I think they might have to sweep a little bit for their own door too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1374	The representative The place mentioned ferries, and then I am absolutely sure that the place is waiting for a question from the representative Nävra about ferry-free conditions, i.e. Free E39. The reason why I'm taking this up again is that we've got a pretty new situation. I'll also take it up in my main post: what happens after the corona? Does the Chairman of the Committee consider that there will be major changes in the transport sector in view of perhaps projected traffic growth ahead of the corona? Does he realize that maybe even the project with the free E39 can get other figures from the post-corona situation? Would the Chairman of the Committee consider the E39 free of charge in another way in view of the socio-economic profitability of the corona?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1379	I'm a little unsure whether the representative Arne Nävra has really understood our point of building the ferry-free E39. When we talk about building up together and cutting down travel times between e.g. Bergen and Stavanger, it means building a larger housing and labour market and laying the basis for value creation. When we talk about building together on the North West between Kristiansund, Molde, Ålesund and Sunnmøre south, it's about building together into a large housing and labour market. We do that because we want to contribute to value creation, strong housing and labour markets around the whole country. It is obvious that the representative Nävra does not agree with that strategy, and we may disagree here, but for us this is the important project. It is important, because regardless of whether a few minor adjustments should be made to the traffic base now, it is extremely important in the regions concerned, precisely to facilitate more efficient housing and labour markets, to ensure that more people can get into work and to ensure that more people have a larger labour market to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1384	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1389	I've been thinking a little bit over the last few days. I've been thinking about this: Imagine that during the budget debate a year ago we had said that 2020 would be the year when our country was almost shut down – when planes were put on the ground, when the taxis lost almost all jobs, when trains, buses and other public transport experienced that the passenger base was lost almost overnight. 2020 has put us as a society and as a land on a large scale. It has been a demanding year, also for those who work in transport. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister of Transport, employees of the Ministry of Transport and the agencies and businesses. I would also like to thank all those who have their daily work in the transport sector – it is in aviation, in road transport, in rail, in shipping or in public transport, and everyone else who works in transport. Thank you for the great effort. In the event of a crisis, it is important that the country’s transport system operates and that the readiness to travel is functioning. There are tough times in many industries, but I'm particularly going to bring out the taxi industry and aviation as two industries that now have it very tough. Drying is an important part of the total transport supply, and it is alarming that many taxi centres are now removing standby at night, after the duty to drive has expired on 1 November. It is understandable that the taxi centres do this because it is related to the situation with the pandemic, but also to the liberalisation of the taxi industry, which the majority of people have adopted. It is absolutely incredible that this liberalisation should come to the heart of the difficult situation. In Norway, aviation is very important. We have daily scheduled services at almost 50 airports, most of them owned and operated by Avinor. In many places, the airport and air route are the only collective service available. For the Workers' Party, the starting point is that all three airlines that we had when we entered the crisis will also exist when we're through the crisis – SAS, Ontøe and Norwegian. The Community must now prepare for aviation for a very difficult time. The working party is willing to go far and take various measures to ensure that airlines are able to cope with their problems. The big paradox is that while the serious airlines are struggling, low-cost companies get into the full market, companies with pruning reputations, dubious pay and working conditions, and some of them don't accept trade unions either. We don't want these companies in Norway at all. On Wednesday afternoon we received a dramatic news, namely that all ferries and speedboats operated by the Boreal shipping company had been relocated after serious deviations had been detected. I don't think it's exaggeration to say that it had dramatic consequences – a company that operates fast boats and ferries from Finnmark to Rogaland. I do not criticise in any way the authorities for what was done, rather on the contrary – we shall never gamble with certainty. But at the same time it has enormous consequences for our coastal communities when something like this happens, for people and for business. Think about our seafood industry. Think about our farms and the companies that are going to have their fish out. It's dramatic when the ferries don't go. The Maritime Directorate is in a state council other than the Minister for Transport, but we are informed that the Minister for Transport has been involved in the matter, and that is good. I ask that during the debate, the Minister of Transport briefs us a little about what happened in the matter, how it was resolved, and also reflects a little about how the preparedness is when something happens, and how the audience and business are informed when something such dramatic happens. It's very serious that something like this happens, people on the coast now have many questions. We have to get to the bottom of this. We have some transport policy objectives. We need efficient transport solutions for people and businesses. We're going to bring down the emissions from the transport sector. We need safe roads. And we have a zero-killed and hard-damaged target in traffic. That is why the Workers' Party had four clear areas of action in the National Transport Plan, which have been followed up in all our alternative state budgets after that, also in our alternative budget for 2021. The first was and is public transport and railway. The other is safe roads and race protection. The third is coastal and port bets. And the fourth is digital infrastructure and broadband deployment. We are also following that in the budget for 2021. The Labour Party believes that the State should contribute 70 pst. of the investment costs of large collective projects in large cities. The Workers' Party will have a more offensive investment on the railway. We suggest more money for planning intercity development on both the Dovrebanen, the Eastfold Railway and the Westfold Railway. We have money to propose the start of the Ringerik Railway in 2021. We have money to build up the Narvik terminal and the freight package Inland to start developing very important measures to achieve the goal of more freight on the rail. We experience a wilder and wetter climate. Then we have to secure our roads better, because we get more pace. The Workers' Party proposes more money for tailoring in its alternative budget, and we also propose more money for the county roads through the framework of the county municipalities over the Ministry's budget. Norway has great opportunities along the coast. Then we must have good infrastructure, good ports and good traffic controllers. Unfortunately, we have a government with fear of water. Why doesn't the government bet on the coast? The Coastal Agency budget is really just a ping-pong budget, and in this area the government is far, far behind the objective of the national transport plan. Now it got a little bit better after the budget agreement, but there's still too little investment on the coast. Everyone says we should have more goods from road to sea, but nothing happens. Every year the government proposes cut in that post. The Labour Party also believes it is important that we start building the City Ship Tunnel in 2021, and add money to it into our alternative budget. We record that it was also in place in the agreement, and it is very good that the government and government parties also came up with better thoughts. The Labour Party has proposed 500 million each year. kr for broadband extension. So let's do that for 2021. Much has been done, and I'm sure the Minister for Digitalisation will talk about it today. There is much more to broadband than before. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing. And yes, it's done a lot, but at the same time it's still very much. And there's big -- very big -- geographic differences. The aim must be that all households and all businesses throughout the country have satisfactory broadband capacity. We have spent a lot of time discussing the so-called railway reform. This week the Riksrevision came with an investigation of Bane NOR, and I repeat what I said in the line change: it's probably a total slaughter of the railway reform and how it works. The government has received warnings along the way, there is no lack of it, but they just keep going. They are now to put out and privatise the operation and maintenance of the railway infrastructure – rails, pucks, sleepers, power supply and everything else that belongs to the infrastructure. It will not be the Labour Party, and we have therefore made proposals to stop this competitive outsourcing, i.e. the competitive outsourcing of the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure. The government has set up another company on the railways in addition to the Railway Directorate, Bane NOR, Entur, Mantena and Norske Train. Then of course we have Vy, Go-Ahead and SJ running trains. And the NSB Traffic Service has become Agilia. Agilia, given! Agil means flexible, forward-looking and adaptive, the company wrote in a press release. Can anyone with the wit in mind stop this madness? But back to the company I started talking about, i.e. track drive. It's a company owned by Bane NOR, and Bane NOR is now buying services from Track operations. The Labour Party opposes this organisation and proposes to stop the competitive outsourcing. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] So I'll finally, while the president clubs, take up minority proposals no. 1 to 19 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1425	The representative Sverre Myrli has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1432	Swearing Myrli is a person who cares about a lot – in his post he was very worried about almost everything. But what he might have to worry about is the partners he's chosen for a possible election campaign in 2021. What I want to point out is actually the view of the Central Party on urban growth agreements. It was a big look yesterday about the City Council leader in Oslo, who was almost in ethnicity because the Center Party would not be betting on urban growth agreements for the big cities. I have experience from former Central Party councils that nothing comes to Oslo and Akershus when they're state councillors. What do Sverre Myrli think about the bet on cities, when you're going to cooperate with parties that don't bet on cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1439	Some parties are very busy with the village, some parties are very busy with the cities. The working party is occupied by both parts. It is completely unmistakable for the Workers' Party that we should not bet on our cities. That's where we have many of our major traffic challenges, and that's where we have many of the challenges relating to emissions from the transport sector. So more attention needs to be paid to urban action, more on urban growth agreements and other measures – both for our four major urban areas and for the five last urban growth agreements – and probably more cities and urban areas should be included under that scheme, or, where appropriate, under other schemes, when we come to the treatment of the national transport plan. I agree that there has been too little funding for Oslo and Akershus. It should certainly be corrected, but Akershus unfortunately does not exist – I have been involved in this. So I guess we'll have to deal with Oslo and the Vikings below.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1446	There is no excuse that Akershus has become part of the Vikings – they are still part of Oslopackak 3 and we are betting on urban growth agreements with Oslo and Akershus. The other thing that's a little special about the Workers' Party is that they're very opposed to the railway reform – everything was much better before. But what they're not against is the gain that this gives. They don't go into their budgets and say they have to re-prioritize 1.2 billion. kr from elsewhere, and use them for the operation of this as long as it is not successful, as they say. Isn't it a little strange that when you're so receptive, you take the gain for given anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1453	The solution is never to look back, it's always to look forward – that's where the good solutions are. So we're not going to do what we did five years or ten years ago, or for that matter 20 years ago. We have an offensive policy, we want to bet more on the railways. We want to organise it another way to achieve our goals of a better rail. Then it's the mantra of the right party that you've saved so much on the railway reform. That's not true. No one has been able to show where the amounts you operate with come from. There are a number of new companies, businesses and businesses that cost enormous sums to manage, and it is not included in the calculation on the right. The economies of scale of the old organisation are also not included in the calculation. So if we're ever going to have that debate in a proper and serious way, the right-hand side has to present that calculation, with both the pluses and the minuses, so we also see what the railway reform costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1460	Now I hear suddenly that the representative Myrli will not look back. If there's something he's doing mostly in his debates, it's looking back – he wants to go back to what was. But it's the Labour Party's problem that you always want to go back – you want to go forward later, while you really want the solutions of the past. I want to challenge the representative Myrli: He said instead that there will be too little money for Oslo and Viken. It's quite amazing that his own party trap Raymond Johansen is now making sure to send $277 million. to other parts of the country, which are going to be brilliantly satisfied because the Workers' Party does not want that money to be spent on public transport and to reduce the toll burden for the inhabitants of which Sverre Myrli represents large parts. How can the representative Myrli think that you need more money when you send money to others, because that's what the Labour Party is doing in Oslo, and by saying no to getting part of the rewards?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1467	A little story here: The government has granted 50 pst in recent years. of the investment costs of large collective projects in the four major cities. The Labour Party has every year, at least together with SV, maybe other parties as well, proposed 70 pst. The government parties didn't want to be part of that. Then came the toll settlement between the current government parties and the Progress Party – while we had majority government, it was well – where one was going up to 66 pst. in appropriations for the major collective projects. But the appropriations were not to go to the collective projects. They were going to put down the collective prices and put down the tolls, so it's really just 50 pst. to the collective investment, and there are Raymond Johansen and I, and I think everyone in the Workers' Party, agree: we want to spend the money on collective investment, and the Workers' Party is for the state to finance 70 pst. of the collective investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1473	The representative Sverre Myrli is strongly opposed to anything called competitive outsourcing. He has acknowledged that through his article here today. My first question is: New Roads – what is the situation for the Workers' Party now? The working party was strongly opposed when they were established. They've shown their amazing ability to actually get both cheaper projects and build faster. What you might be even stronger against is public-private cooperation. It is mentioned by the Workers' Party in the comments on this matter that it is based on OPS, as well as is the worst that can happen, and one mentions examples that it has not been an advantage. What about Klett–Orkdal 20 years ago? Wasn't that a very good OPS project?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1482	The Labour Party is not fundamentally opposed to using competitive outsourcing where it makes sense. The working party has a very sensible and pragmatic attitude to it. We use competition where it makes sense, and then we don't use it where it doesn't make sense. We've also organized transport development in different ways over time. I remember the expansion of Oslo Airport, Norway's main airport at Gardermoen, both the airport as such and the Gardermobanen, as it was hot, so we have absolutely no counter-thinking ideas about thinking new, but that must be sensible, and it must be effective. Yes, we have good experience in organizing development in other ways, but we also have bad experiences, including with OPS projects, some good ones and some bad ones. We have to learn from the good and move on with it, and we have to get rid of it and not go on with it that doesn't work. The problem with the right parties, including the left, is that they do these things because it's ideologically right for them, not because it makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1491	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1496	This is a day of joy. In the financial debate, I talked about both people and cows who were going to walk around because we're going to build a lot of new ways and make sure that it smells like asphalt all over the country. I'm not going to say the same thing now, because someone reacted a little to who I talked about, but what's absolutely certain is that it should smell a lot of asphalt as well in 2021. It's delicious, because it shows that things happen, and that it's pressure. Yes, some of the breakthroughs that the Progress Party has now received is that in 2021 we're going to spend another half a billion dollars, of which 300 million. kr shall go to the national roads and 200000 million. kr to the county roads, on asphalt – and there is a lot. In addition, what is already in the budget. Yeah, it's going to start and it's going to be built at a high pace, while toll stations are going to be demolished and most people aren't going to pay nearly 1 billion. Extra kroner. Based on the fact that Oslo did not want the money, we are making sure that the money that was going to pay down tolls in Oslo is being enjoyed by others in other parts of the country. It was funny to hear the Vice-President in Kvam, Frode Nygård, who said that there was now a Christmas press, because the toll is almost halved. There's something that matters to people, who reduce their spending because the Progress Party has had the advantage of reducing tolls, and that money is to be used to reduce tolls, and not just go back into the state box. In addition to nearly one billion, over the state budget, the government has granted almost one and a half billion. kr to reduce tolls through the agreement we made with the government in 2019. That means the drivers have to pay almost 2.5 billion. NOK less in 2021 than it would have been if you had, for example, had. a red-green government. I see that the red-greens have not dared to take away the money that had already been proposed by the government when it came to cutting tolls. They haven't added any more heads, even though some of them have said that they're busy reducing the toll burden for people. The TT system shall be strengthened by 30 million. kr. That means continuing a system that allows those who need that kind of transport to get a life that is more like the life of most of us. I'm very happy about that. It is funny to finally ensure that the «Gasswegen» at home in Bamble, Telemark, which is an important road for industry, is allocated. The industry took part of the bill in the 1970s, but after that, the industry felt that it was over that the state was there. Now we've had a pass to allocate 75 million. NOK in the state budget for 2021, as we are adopting today, in addition to New Weier adding 50 million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There's something that matters; it's very important. I want to mention some of the sections that we have now passed on, and that are going to be of great importance in 2021. I also have to be careful to say one thing: in terms of Rogfast and adjusting the framework, we will support the committee's recommendation. We didn't do it in an accident, but we want to be behind it. money for a rescue car – and it’s important on Rennfast E134 column layout on Vågsli rv. 41 Southern Herefoss – Hynnekleiv Cowbruns, Tjeldsundbrua, rv. 13 Churches New Stream Bridge rv. 111 Tranga, rv. 13 Church - Budapest E14 Stjørdal to Swedish border, E16 Øye–Turtnes, E39 Byrkekelo–Sandane, E39 Roadbust crossing rv. 15 intersects the border with cross fv. 15 Valdres fly rv. 9 Kristiansand-Hovden, rv. 502 Eigerøy bridge E6 Transfiguration bridge Lonåsen, rv. 3 Thin – and more! I also have to get a little bit into the railroad, because we're going to get 75 million. kr for planning and ground work at intercity in Westfold, from Stokke to Sandfjord. It is important for Vestfold and Telemark. I look forward to this. I would also like to mention the Bruges Programme, where a commitment authorisation must be put in place. It means a lot to the timber transport and the forest industry. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1553	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, then drew up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1560	The representative Hoksrud goes up in fistula when he talks about the road. He's done that before, and he's going to do that in the future too. He doesn't go into fistula – this time anyway – when it comes to the government's broadband bet. In recent years, the use of broadband to the government has been dependent on the market to deal with profitable projects, while at the same time ensuring that projects outside the urban areas receive some reduced appropriations — which have then been negotiated in settlement negotiations with various parties. I would like to ask the representative Hoksrud if there is a special reason why the Progress Party in this round has actually not prioritised increasing a weak post in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1567	Thank you for the question. We haven't suggested reducing that entry. It's actually there, and if you look away from last year, it's about the same level as before. But it is not that the Progress Party has not proposed it. In fact, in our alternative state budget – I think perhaps the representative Langholm Hansen should read all – it says that we have proposed to increase it by 150 million. kr. This is precisely because we agree that broadband is important. That's what we want to give priority to. I also think it is very good that there is a public-private cooperation on this. Business is involved and helps solve where you can, and then you have good arrangements. There's a lot of money in there. For the Progress Party, we would have liked to see that we had made it through, but that is how we agreed with the government on a package, where there is a lot of good infrastructure, and not least for all the drivers. The working party thinks it is okay for them to pay a lot of tolls. The progress party thinks they have to pay less tolls [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1576	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1581	I guess I'll be grateful for the answer. Although the representative did not answer the question I asked, he was in a fistula again. We rely on taxes and taxes to get the wheels to walk around, and the Progress Party has been one of the drivers to introduce the unemployed workers' society into the taxi industry. In my conversations with taxi drivers, I get feedback about the actors who are now taking over the customers. In Kristiansand there is free ride with Ridel because they have not mounted taximeters yet. Others are travelling for 167 kroner, for which they are paid 67 kroner, because they are driving for Uber. But they can't cover their expenses and make money, and in addition, Uber will have 25 pst. of what has been entered. How will the representative Hoksrud explain that it can be sustainable to drive customers so cheaply with your own driver, your own car and without making money?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1590	I don't think anyone wants to drive a car without making money. I think everyone agrees that you have to make money to make up for it. But that's the way it is, and the representative Sverre Myrli was very clear about it, and the representative Langholm Hansen also knows that 2020 has definitely been a special year. But not everything was good in the taxi industry until you did the grips you've done now. There is a reason why it has been proposed to make changes and adjustments, and this unfortunately did not work. People in many places were very dissatisfied with the offer they received, which is why changes have now been made. Many people also say that they have been struggling to get taximeters in place. It's also companies that have run and run the taxi industry, which are very satisfied with what's happening, and think it's very good and very welcome. But of course, it's a demanding time for taxi industry, just as there are too many other industries, and that's also why we've done a lot of steps to help them in the business that's struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1597	The Progress Party has for many years twice communicated what they think about tolls. They made toll propositions on current bands while they were in government, and now the debt has risen to over 62 billion. kr. In the Prop settings. 23 S for 2020-2021, on Roa-Gran in Hadeland, proposed full state funding to the Progress Party. While criticising the content of the project, the Committee recommended that the development project be adopted. In the Prop settings. 55 S for 2020-2021, on the E39 Remuneration – Health, the Progress Party once again proposed state funding, but did not support the Committee’s recommendation. In the Prop settings. 38 S for 2019-2020, on Lysaker-Ramstadsletta, promoted the Progress Party, among others. own proposals on state funding, but did not support the decision to start the construction of E18. What is the Progress Party for, what are they against, and how does the Progress Party feel that these projects should be financed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1605	Thank you for the question. The funny thing is that the center party is busy with this, which says they're busy reducing tolls. From 2010 until now, almost 80 propositions have been made. The centre party has voted for each and every one of them. The Progress Party has voted against more than 30 of them. When you get into government, it happens that you actually have to make some compromises, and we have. For the Progress Party, building a road is what's important, and that's what we're working for. But we believe that it should be fully funded by the state in the same way that we fund our health care and education systems. That's possible, and there's been a lot of billions of dollars spent on actions that have been good and right in 2020 because of the coronary apathy. It is possible if it is political will, but the Central Party does not have that will, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1614	Now the representative Hoksrud said it would smell asphalt. He made this clear, of course, as a lice fit for me. It actually smells like asphalt from the pulpit. I noticed that he mentioned the railway approx. 10 seconds after it started to light red from the microphone on the pulpit. Then the railroad came out. That is quite significant. My question to Hoksrud is asked on the basis of a study of his alternative budget. That's interesting reading. As far as I can see here, he'll move 700 million. kr from Vosebanen. I guess that's the K5 option he's thinking about then. So he doesn't want a railway there, but he needs a highway. Then he'll take from the soft traffic lights 100 million. kr for walking and cycling routes in urban areas. Is there anything that works on environmental measures in the Progress Party? Can he comment on why he's doing this with the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1627	If you read alternative budgets, you have to read everything. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, it is proposed to transfer several of the railway projects to New Vejer, or New Baner, as we have proposed. That means that we want to see this in conjunction with the enormous positive effect New Veier has had. It was ridiculed when we proposed this early in the 2000s – that this was completely hopeless. Now we see that the whole Stortinget takes on how great New Roads have been. It's very happy, although there's someone who has said that this was to put transportation back decades in time. No, it was putting transportation decades ahead in time and being offensive. We must also be on the railways. In fact, it's possible to bring down the costs and build more railways for the money. That is what we are concerned about – that we should get the most out of the money. So it's a little funny: Arne Nävra should really cheer the Progress Party, because we're the best allies in terms of intercity and the Westfold. It's the Progress Party, with what we've been through with the government now, which is really betting on the railway in Westfold, as opposed to the parties he's going to cooperate with if there's going to be another government after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1634	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1639	The year that has passed has been very special, and it has really been an intensification to create good transport and logistics services. And that's what we're working on. The centre party wants safe and efficient transport of people, goods and information across the country, while reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but the year that has passed has really challenged us. Our main priorities, what turns our bet more towards the whole country, are 1.5 billion. NOK 600 million for the county roads. kr more to highways to provide some strategically important sections and bottlenecks, 400 million. SEK more for breed and flood protection, 236 million. kr more for increased broadband development and a coastal package of a total of 785 million. kr more than the majority’s bet. In addition, the Central Party has set aside money for a comprehensive package for aviation with fee reductions, route purchases and compensation of more than 5 billion. kr. The centre party will increase the air route offer and reduce ticket prices. For all the details, I refer to the Central Party's alternative state budget, which proposes these initiatives to facilitate the development of forward-looking infrastructure throughout the country. I'm going to deal with the suggestions that the Center Party is on. For a coastal nation such as Norway, it is important to bet on the sea route, and the centre party is the party that is most likely to bet on new facilities and major port maintenance, including the fishing ports. The center part has added 300 million here. kr more than the majority, plus 50 million. kr more to stimulate more goods from road to sea. The centre party also has greater stakes than the majority to get more goods over to the track. And to the local representative: with regard to the many proposals of the Central Party for cheaper ferry prices for people, this is below the municipal budget, and we have taken that into account. Norway has a lot of nutrition and people along the coast, so this effort is very important for people's everyday lives and for the nation's appreciation. The centre party believes that there is a need for large-scale upgrading of the county roads. These roads currently have a large maintenance kit, which in 2018 was estimated at between 60 and 80 billion. kr, and the government has shown no willingness to spend money on this, despite the fact that the county councils and a number of road sector actors, inter alia. The Road Traffic Information Council has called for warnings. Many have called for warnings. The centre party has repeatedly made proposals for this maintenance programme, but it has been voted down by the right-wing parties and the Progress Party. The government came last year with an entry 65 under the State Road Administration, a searchable grant to county roads of 100 million. kr. The center party has 0 million. kr in this item, where the majority now has 175 million. kr, and the reason for that is that the centre party prioritizes 1,5 billion. kr. to the county roads in 2021 by increasing the framework grant through an unbureaucratic state road operation without an application to the county municipalities. In order to explain the difference between the proposals of the majority of the population and that of the Central Party for 2021, I can use Nordland as an example. The solution of the centre party would give 212.8 million. kr more from the state in 2021 to a reinforced investment in county roads in Northern Ireland. Today's majority is $7 million. kr. and Nordland has more than 4000 km of highways. There's no doubt that there's a need for money and $7 million. Of course, kr is better than nothing, but to put the 7 million into perspective, it can be seen in the context that the county itself will spend 5.1 billion. kr on the county roads in the north, while at the same time strengthening the road maintenance by 150 million. kr annually. Westland gets $12 million. kr from the government to the county roads under the grant. With the budget of the Central Party, Westland would receive 284.5 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1654	The representative, Siv Mossleth, has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1661	The centre party is opposed to reforms in the field of transport, such as road reform and rail reform. The centre party has previously been very critical of the red tape and efficiency reform, but we are now recording that the centre party has no comments about it and does not propose to reverse it in its alternative budget. In addition to the ABE reform, the Centre Party has set up a so-called 2.1 billion bureaucrat. SEK in addition to the cut in consulting services of over 1 billion. kr. The transport sector depends to a large extent on the use of hired consultants for the planning and design of new projects. Can the Centre respond to how the cut will turn off for progress in large planned road and rail transport investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1666	The budget of the Central Party is based on a reduction in taxes and taxes on ordinary people. Economic activities shall be subject to reduced charges. In the case of bureaucracy, we've got a lot of cut in the bureaucracy, and we're going to take a lot out there. It's a lot to take off. Only since 2013 has the increase in government jobs, mainly in the bureaucracy, been more than 20,000 people, and we have seen a flowering of consultants and communications managers who we have never seen before in this country. Everything we've proposed, we've got coverage for in our budget, so if the representative looks at our entire budget, she'll find exactly what she's asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1671	I want to go into another reform. There are still no reforms, and the Central Party maintains solutions to the needs of the past, as is the case with the Post. As a result of increased digitisation where people communicate and provide services electronically, the amount of letters has fallen dramatically, and the Post spends a lot of time running around in empty mail cars. In its alternative budget for the current year, 2020, the Central Party budgeted 249 million. kr to keep by post-implementation five days a week. In the draft budget for 2021, the Central Party has neither put in money nor had any comments on postal services. Has the Centre Party now realised that there is a wrong use of Community funds to keep by post-returning five days a week?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1676	What happened to the Post and the emancipation of the Post does not apply primarily to letters. We can wait for love letters and bills. What we were concerned about were all other types of services, including packages. Now it has been shown that there are a lot of packages being sent. Maybe it was wrong to put down the post office, and maybe the government also sees that that ejaculation was wrong. But there have been so many centralisation reforms from this government that in this budget we have not prioritised maintaining the postal service. We must realize that absolutely all the centralization struggles that this government can win, we cannot take on one budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1681	The centre party has now spoken with two tongues for a longer time. Their alternative state budget has rusted up in the clouds, but there is some difference in theory and practice. Earlier this year, the Centre Party voted against the extension of the E18 West corridor because it was believed that passenger transport should be taken by bicycle and by foot. In Westfold and Telemark, the county rapporteurs, Terje Riis-Johansen, criticised the government for the fact that there was zero money for intercity double tracks south of Tønsberg. It was the most important thing for the county, also in meeting with the committee. The central party leader in Westfold and the first candidate, Kathrine Kleveland, criticized the government for not getting money, zero money, to intercity south of Tønsberg, and not a single word. In the Central Party budget, there's zero money and nothing about how to solve it. But if you're going to use bicycles and bikes, from the ski to Oslo, it takes you one day to go and eight hours to ride a bike. What does the representative Mossleth think is a suitable time to ride and go?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1689	Suitable time for cycling and walking? It depends on how good a time you have, and on the circumstances. I can walk for days, but if I go to work in the morning, it'll be a little difficult. When it comes to talking to two tongues, it was strange to hear that it was precisely the Progress Party that raised that issue, the Progress Party that – at least in the local media in the Nordic countries – stands up against government policy. Dagfinn Olsen said in Lofotposten: We shall keep the positions in the Coastal Works on the environment and preparedness, they shall not be moved to Horten. But what does the Progress Party in Stortinget do? Are they going to vote in favour of our proposal to maintain these preparedness positions in Lofoten, Ålesund and Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1696	The President understands that the Stordalen wants a new line, but there is no room for any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1701	The representative Siv Mossleth mentioned nothing about the railway in his post. It could be that you didn't have time to mention it. But what I've got with me is that the Center Party is now talking about postponing, or canceling, the construction of the largest bottleneck we have in the railway network, namely the Oslo Tunnel. It is not that it should only serve the population of Oslo, no, it is equally important for the Gudbrand valley, for the South Railway, the Westfold Railway, the Eastfold Railway and the various areas covered by the railway. Railways are really district friendly public transport. So my question is, isn't the Center Party any longer interested in railway construction and removing the biggest bottlenecks?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1706	I haven't forgotten the railway, but something's on the Fasteraunes sheet. In the case of new Oslo Tunnel, this is a very large and complicated project. It will have ten years of construction, and the National Theatre station will shut down for two years, but that's not why we've taken some money from the new Oslo tunnel. We've looked at the investigation that Traffic Concept has made, which shows that the train offer around Oslo can go up against twice without this railway tunnel, and that was already before the Korona crisis. I think it might also become common in the future that not everyone travels to work in Rushtide, at the same time. But we've been on the railroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1711	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1716	The new words of the year have been mentioned by many here today and in previous debates here this week: the Korona. This word is perhaps most important to the transport field, I think, when we're going to think about it in the future. Not least for the spring – I look at the Council of States – when a new national transport plan is to be created, we have to bring that word with us. Everything else will simply be irresponsible. What are the long-term consequences of the pandemic? We might want to change our travel habits. When far over half of us, I think it was 57 pst., in a poll saying that a much larger would prefer to work from home, it's clear that this has enormous significance for the daily commuting, I think. Then – in all ages – we have had a gigantic training in online meetings, and Zoom and Teams have become everyday and all-round. One would then think that people would sit a lot more at home and work instead of going to meetings, as they did before. Maybe they won't spend as much money on travel as before and despite their bad climate conscience? I just don't think so. It'll change. If we get permanent changes, this must have consequences for several plans in Norwegian transport. We have to worry about this. Let's have the extra runway, for example.? Should we leave the old calculations of traffic growth on the roads still valid? Is it perhaps now that the majority here in the Chamber should listen a little bit more to the environmental movement, to the environmental parties, and like to go to SV, President, and like until he caress the representative Nävra, and think of scaling down the huge highway plans, not taking all the old predictions of good fish, and not going on autopilot and lodge for those who love the smell of asphalt and high speed? There are two other crucial factors that make us pucking have to think about new things in the transport sector. I have said this before, but I have heard from advertisers and media advisors that important messages must be repeated and repeated, and then they must be repeated again. Indeed, the transport sector has a great responsibility to deal with two existing threats facing humanity – nothing less. I'm talking of course about climate change and the loss of nature, cultivated land and other valuable areas. In particular, the members of the Transport Committee have a great responsibility. The transport sector accounts for about one third of emissions. This is a recognized fact, and we've repeated it many times here in the hall. We get to electrify the car park quite well, and also the ferry park, even if this goes a little too late. But otherwise, in other sectors such as construction, for trucks, etc., it is a good thing again. At the same time, we build down and divide up nature and cultivated land. Then I have three-four main points where I think the great majority here in the hall, with the government at the head, is troubling wrong. First of all: motorways are built before the railway – evenly and tightly in the same corridors. At best, it's like they're being built at the same time in order to get rid of the foundation of the railway in a good way. Then we can think about K5, we can think about the Ringerix track, etc. It is good that the government has increased the framework of the railway. That's very good. They have increased significantly, but largely go to budget cracks, including: Exceedance of costs at intercity. We know that. SV will largely move the money over to the railway. We take them to a great extent from highways. We are the only party on the Transport Committee that dares to give priority to this. We're moving about 2 billion. kr to the railway. In the case of roads, we want to spend money on racial protection, repair, repair, repair, yellow mid-strip, etc. And take it back to maybe 60 to 70 billion. kr on the maintenance of the county roads. There is a slogan I hope will remain in the walls here when I give myself after the next six months: SV wants us to build far and safe and not wide and expensive. The second area is that we have to cultivate the collective more than the private. In this context, of course, there is public transport and less for the benefit of the private car. Urban growth agreements and means of reward need to be significantly increased and more medium-sized cities need to be included in the scheme. This makes SV in its alternative budget. Thirdly, we have to get more goods across from road to rail and sea. I can't say more in this round, but I would like to take up the suggestions SV is behind. We are going to consider proposal No. 28, but I think that vote comes a bit of a sail.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1744	The representative Arne Nävra has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1751	I register that the representative Nävra and SV cut massively in road construction in Norway. I calculated up to approx. 4 B.C.E. NOK, and then we can adjust a little bit, because they have a little bit more to protect the race. But it's a massive cut in road construction in Norway, and 3 billion. kr of these cuts have arrived at Nye Weier, which is more or less a disassembly of the company. It will have a major impact on the continuous development of E6 in Trøndelag, on the continuous expansion of E6 in the Inland and E39 in the South, just to give some examples. What is the rural policy of the SV behind these cuts, when they cut so massively in road construction, which builds up the regions, around the whole country? What will be the consequence of job creation around these regions when road development is stopped in this way? So a small question at the end: is this supposed to be cut in the motorway operation also applicable to E134 Dagslett-E18?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1758	The last fun I responded to last year, so I'm not going to spend that time on now. But to the other, I'm in doubt if the representative heard my main post. Then I said what we would prioritize, and what we would prioritize down. There's no one here in the hall who dares to prioritize almost anything. I feel almost completely alone politically in the transport committee. The big views go their way, represented among others. by the representative of the City. We will give priority to the district roads, racial protection and yellow middle stripe. It's over a hundred miles, 120 miles, with highways without a yellow middle stripe. If the local government makes proposals to move those billions from E18 from Oslo and from ferries-free E139 to those projects – then I will support everyone, I will say to the local representative. It's district policy. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1767	I find it difficult to argue to cut so significantly in the road budget and at the same time implement several projects. It doesn't have much credibility. Then I record that the representative Nävra and SV argue very strongly that moving funds from road to rail is a climate action. If we take a scenario where, over the course of 10-15 years, zero-emission solutions are on our roads – on our side, we actually have that ambition: is it appropriate, then, to build down road infrastructure in Norway in the way that SV suggests, then to move all the funds onto the railways? Is there any way to solve the challenges for District Norway and build the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1774	I thank you for the good question. I think we have to see this in two epochs. We might have to look at it in a decade's perspective, by 2030, and then we'll have to look at the climate challenges in a longer perspective. That's a good point. Railway development also provides significant greenhouse gas emissions; there is no doubt about it, but the railway helps us in the long term. If we think 30, 40, 50 years ahead, it's almost an eternal, good resource that's environmentally friendly. There is no means of transport that uses less energy than the railway, as we know the technology today. Then there's another point, which I don't think the representative is thinking so much about, at least he doesn't market it, and that's that there's going to be a struggle for the energy, no matter what form of energy we have in the future, including electrical energy, because it's a very important resource, which there's going to be a struggle about. And then it's actually very important that we think about energy efficiency also in the transport sector. But the representative has a point if you think in a ten-year perspective, but I also believe that he has to compare this with motorways, and then he wears down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1790	The Socialist Left Party likes to rule, dictate and regulate the lives of most people. Unfortunately, SV doesn't care that the coercive measures they want to push down people's heads, cause people the most major discomfort, major economic challenges and problems in everyday life. Obviously, it doesn't worry SV. And such a negative coercive measure is proposal No. 23, where SV wants the government to contribute to the creation of zero-emission zones in the major cities. Those who have a lot of money can only move to another stroke or buy zero-emission cars, but not everyone has the opportunity, especially the minimum pensioners, the disabled or other groups of low income. So doesn't SV see that such measures lead to major problems, including financial problems and costs, for most people? In that case, how should SV take this into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1797	This was also a good fit for me, because if you live in a place in the city where there is a very high level of pollution – who can afford to move? Are they the poorest, or are they the richest? Who is it that lives in the most polluted strata? The representative thinks about the driver. I think of the people who live there. There are two completely different starting points. Of course, zero-emission zones are crucial for those who live there, and very often the poorer people. It's a little funny that I get this question from a representative of the Progress Party, who is the elite party in terms of taxes, where they basically don't think about the poorest, and how tax relief for those who have the most from before has been largely supported by the Progress Party. It's a strange rug.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1804	Now SV looks very black-and-white on the matter. Fortunately, there are not as many pollution challenges in so-called large cities in Norway as SV are trying to create an impression of. And there's an intrusion between simply prohibiting people from using their car and making sure that their emissions are reduced, for example. by having incentives to buy environmentally friendly cars, such as the government, together with the Progress Party, has set up, and that one focuses more on sweeping and washing the streets. Doesn't SV see the difference, that you don't have to forbid anything, but that you can continue with positive incentives, like the government and the Progress Party add up to?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1809	All transport research shows that one has to use both. One has to use positive tools, what we can call carrots, and then one also has to use whips sometimes. That's what our charging system is based on. We can actually construct people's behavior very much through whips and carrots in the charging system. But in the case of cars and car traffic, the parking facilities are essential to getting a comfortable city, as much as the tolls into the cities are. I've sometimes thought that my worst nightmare would be about the Progress Party alone overthrowing Oslo and our other big cities. I wonder what it would have been like. I wonder what it would have been like to go to Oslo with the Advance Party at the rudder. It's a scary scenario.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1814	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1819	The biggest challenge of our time next to the Corona is the climate crisis. Norway has committed itself to the Paris Agreement, and it should and should not be a doubt: we are going to deliver. We get right over Christmas presented a climate plan from the government with concrete measures. We already know that the maritime sector and its opportunities and contributions to the green shift are large and diverse. The purchasing power of the public must be used, and now zero-emission ferries are required for new tenders after 2023 and zero-emission speedboats after 2025. 2025 might sound long, some may claim, but remember that there is not a single boat built with these requirements for the time being. Several groupings of shipping companies have made it clear, and the county councils, which handle these tenders, have now received more money through direct government support. Up to the red-green majority in Trøndelag, the county cheered when the last allocation of the Climate Action Scheme was granted. Within the transport area, we have done a lot and will do a lot to contribute to lower and no emissions. The EU and ESA have understood that Norway really has something going on in climate and environmental policies. We continue to grant VAT exemptions on the whole electric cars. New two years – yes, thank you! Now every other new car sold is electric. In addition, the market outlook is very good and the willingness to buy is expanded. The range anxiety stone will be gone soon. It is possible to get a four-wheel drive with a trailer attachment, and the whole of the feedback is that the electric car is partly superior to comfort, safety and riding. Then you must not start to scare potential buyers with large tax increases and expensive car maintenance. Both small and large electric cars are climate friendly and environmentally friendly. It must always pay to buy and use a zero-emission vehicle. The polluter shall continue to pay. The fuel companies have now understood that they have to offer charging at their former refuelling stations. Now they're called energy stations. And dear municipalities: treat the building applications from the owners of the energy stations so that we can get more charging stations up quickly. The network companies, which are to deliver energy, need to adapt the charges and technology so that it is possible to make money at an energy station throughout the country. The electric cars have been a city phenomenon, we see from the statistics. Now the electric car is ready to use throughout the country. The railway operation has never been as large as in 2021. I am absolutely sure that the passengers will be enthusiastic, and more and more people will use this fantastic transport offer in the coming years when we get more departures, trains go faster and new trains with high comfort and increased capacity will be deployed on several routes already in 2021, such as. The trombone. We railway lovers have gotten us a few nose thieves in the last few years, and the cost figures have been too many and too high. The regularity is not good enough. It is too often that train stops and delays are reported. Fortunately, we have more money to spend on maintenance and new infrastructure because the state's purchase of train routes has fallen after we have introduced competition among the train companies. Fortunately, the travel ambition is low for the moment, but it will get up right after the pandemic is handled. I hope Bane NOR has been implemented and implements a lot of maintenance and modernisation now that the traffic has been low. Collective traffic has recorded the number of passengers per year up to this year. New heights will be reached soon. Urban growth agreements and reward schemes are clearly the main cause. Let's expand these arrangements for several cities in 2021 and not least during the treatment of a new national transport plan. Often, faster and cheaper trains and buses remain a good slogan for the Left in the election campaign next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1836	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1841	At least it will not be in the Klettkrijk or at Heimdalsmyra you experience cork, said project manager for new E6 in 2015. The Velcro has become a deadly traffic trap. The positions are due to everyone other than the weigher. This is a highway, planned by the state, recommended solution made by the state. It should then be possible to expect the State to also start planning to find a new and safe solution. The inhabitants are in despair. The Workers' Party has a note in the setting of this State budget, but the Left does not support it. Will the Left do something about the Storting with the situation that has arisen at Klett, in order to resolve this which is really the main trafficked point of the Trondelag?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1846	I can tell you a lot about the story behind how to choose the Velcro. I was involved in those internal negotiations in the Trondheim municipality. I have been involved in environmental package work for many years, but I am not going to entertain the meeting with what really happened, what priorities were made, and by whom. But it is clear that the Velcro is a road-hazardous area. For my part and for my part, also in the city council in Trondheim, we had hoped that it could be done locally through the environmental package. Then we know that there has been a dialogue with the state about it. I think you have to keep going on that track, that this becomes a spice layer, and take hold of it, so that it gets solved somehow, because it can't be like today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1851	It is incredibly important that this planning be started. Right in front of the Klettkreuzet, the government has adopted something for which we ate cake in 2015, and that was the missing freight terminal for Tøndelag. In the current plane, it's 1,8 billion. kr to a new logistics node for rail and car at Torgård. The total cost was estimated at 6.7 billion. kr. Actually, it's five wasted years, because we now see that there are other things that are being investigated, but one has no answer. The analyses say that we want 50,000 more trailers on the road every day in 2050, and for Trondelag, it's also essential that we get a solution for goods. What will Left do with the 2015 promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1857	The left was also for Torgård that time, a little while ago, but it turned out that it became too expensive. There was a solution that required tunnel solution through the Vassbergellet – for those who are a little localised. It's a very expensive solution for so little traffic, to say it like that. Then they were asked to look at other solutions, find other solutions, and it has now been done by the Directorate of Railways. You point to the Heggstadmo as an opportunity instead of putting it in Torgård, because it's clear that, just as the representative says, we have to solve the freight challenge that's in Trondelag. The second thing that matters to the Left is that Brattöra will be released, because it will be a very good urban development area. So I'd rather point to the Heggstadmoen. That's what's the good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1862	The left and the representative Gunnes are a champion of more money for the urban growth agreements and also high-deck sponsorship for bicycles for 2 million. Just in Trondheim. However, it is important that both the municipality and the state follow up on the commitments they have entered into in these agreements, and not least evaluate them. With regard to the urban growth agreement concluded between the State and the municipalities of the Trondheims area, it is stated that the objective is the realisation of two trains per hour on the Melhus-Steinkjer route by 2024. Now several of the municipalities in the Trondheims area are concerned about whether the state is following its obligations, and in an answer to written questions from me, the Council of State Hareide said that the 2024 target is very ambitious and seems in today's situation to be demanding to achieve. What is Gunnes' response to the municipalities that are naturally concerned about whether the State is following up its commitments in urban growth agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1869	All policies are demanding. I still hope that with the agreement that has been signed, the state together with the county council and the municipalities in the Trondheims area will solve this challenge by 2024. There's also a lot about the proposition that we're dealing with today. It says it's the goal. I also know that the Council of State has replied that it may be challenging, but I have clearly the hope and ambition that two trains an hour between Melhus and Steinkjer must become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1874	The President will be given a clean loft of this change of lines. It's just about Trondheim and Trøndelag.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1879	The representative Gunnes talked a lot about an electric car in his post, and it's like a total size has decided that all new passenger cars sold from 2025 on are zero-emission cars. On 7 October this year, the Minister for Climate and Environment wrote on Twitter: ‘I can understand that the elbers prefer not to pay a traffic insurance fee. But we are also increasing the CO2 component of the fossil car entry fee in this budget, so that it will be at least as attractive to choose an electric car in the future as it is today." The CO2 component and its increase were essential to ensure the competitive advantage of the electric cars in the future. This decisive increase is removed in the Budgetary Union with the Progress Party. My question is, how can the Left defend that you have made it less attractive to choose an electric car and more attractive to buy a fossil car?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1889	It is quite right that the primary policy of the Left is that Lars Haltbrecken now sketches, who also the Council of State Sveinung Rotevatn has said something about. Clearly, that is what we want. But there is still a big difference between the level of fees charged on an electric car and a fossil-powered car, and we believe that it needs to be maintained and perhaps increased in order for the proportion to be even better. But that's the way to make a budgetary settlement. I think SV has also tried it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1894	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1899	We are proud that next year's budget for rail is bigger than ever. It shows that the government really prioritises environmentally friendly and forward-looking transport. From 2013 until today, the government of Solberg has doubled the budget by rail. The increase in next year's rail budget is about 6 billion. NOK, which clearly shows that the green shift is in full swing. We also look at the establishment and implementation of urban growth agreements linked to the four major cities. It is now in place and can be extended to the five medium-sized enterprises, in the first instance Kristiansand and Tromsø. These agreements make it possible to intensify efforts on new green measures to facilitate the movement of goods and persons by means of good collective services, as well as good walking and cycling solutions. This is also very important for children and young people, who can move in traffic safely and safely. We are also pleased that the maintenance run on the highways is being reduced once again, for the eighth consecutive year. With one and a half billion dollars. In reducing the backlog, not least District Norway will experience a clear improvement that creates better conditions for housing and nutrition throughout the country. The Christian People's Party and the government are also proud of New Roads, which have shown that it is possible to get more money, and which, in the correct sense of the word, have clearly shown new ways of achieving effective resource use. In the Christian People's Party, we will underline the importance of the work on road safety. Safer roads combined with effective control activities have been important for approaching the zero vision target. Norway has had a positive development due to a strong focus on road safety prevention, based on good, multidisciplinary and knowledge-based work. Here, we also get good help from important actors, such as: Safe Traffic. Norway has had the lowest figures in Europe for the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic in the last four years, and is so far down to a further decline as it appears today. However, let there be no doubt that one killed in traffic is still too much. Many of the accidents happen on our county road network. It is therefore important for the government to give even greater priority to these in the future, both to make them safer and to enhance the promotion of the transport of food on these roads. Transport of seafood and timber are examples of the importance of roads that are both winter safe and safe for business across the whole country. Here we want to take further action and make the national and county road network even safer to move forward. The Christian People's Party has been working for a long time to get an extended TT system in place for the whole country. It is therefore particularly gratifying that blind, partially sighted and wheelchair users receive an additional 30 million. kr following the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. This is about creating better solutions to enable these groups to participate in society and be better included. I am pleased that an initiative is now being taken to investigate a rights-based scheme and to make an assessment of whether Nav is not a better home for the scheme than the county municipality. Different practices from state to state make it feel a little different from where you live. The extended TT scheme contributes in a very good way to the integration of users who often refer to the scheme as a life before and a completely different life after the scheme came into place. It had to go to a different government than the red-green one to get this to. In order to maintain jobs and residence throughout the country, the development of good, forward-looking solutions in transport is important. It is therefore gratifying that the project of new airport in Mo in Rana can now finally begin. The project is essential to enable the Helgeland region to have a better relationship with the rest of the country. It is important to stimulate further growth and development in the country. The priorities of this draft budget show that the ambitions for a better and more forward-looking infrastructure for the whole country continue. Effective road and road solutions, as well as ferry transport, bind the country together. New technology is still leading us in the right direction in terms of reducing emissions. Mobility is crucial for a modern society, and therefore we must continue to facilitate housing and industrial development across the country, through our transport policy. The government's draft budget, together with the outcome of the conciliation with the Progress Party, provides a good basis for this further investment in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1924	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1929	It is very pleasant to have the representative Gruvan again in the debate on transport, although there will be no cooperation on transport issues as often as it was in the previous period. I know that Grøvan and the Christian People's Party have been very concerned with broadband development, and that they have repeatedly highlighted it as an important topic, which we also worked on in the previous period. In the budget now adopted for 2021, there is a sharp decline in the allocation of broadband from the year's budget. The appropriations for the next year are likely to be approximately 260 million. kr. According to the Labour Party's view, it is far too small, we believe that the allocation should be 500 million. kr every year. We need to take a power cap for broadband deployment, so that all households and all businesses have sufficient broadband capacity. My question to Gruvan is: Is the Christian People's Party satisfied with the effort that is now on broadband?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1936	I would first like to express my full agreement with the representative Myrli that broadband is absolutely essential for us to have housing and business development across the country. If we look at it from an international perspective, we're very good in Norway. It's realistic to think that we'll get 90 pst. coverage, at 100 Mbit/s, during the coming year. That's a very good number in a European perspective. Then we also see that in the current year we have granted over 400 million. NOK, and that's a very good bet. We hope we can achieve the goal of nearly 100 pst. in a short time. Next year, we're at a slightly lower level than this year. I hope that we will still be able to achieve the ambitious goals we have over a relatively few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1942	Thanks for the answer. We're probably approaching 90 pst. I expect the Minister for Digitalisation to talk more about this afterwards. But that also means that we have a good deal left, and everyone realizes that the percentages that are left are much more expensive to expand than it was for the almost 90 percent who have got broadband. So it's clear that we're far from the goal. We wouldn't have been happy if it was just 90 pst. which had power, or only 90 pst. who had deposited water in this country. The goal must be that all businesses and all households – 100 pst. – is provided with sufficient broadband capacity. My question to Gruvan is two-part. Does the Christian People's Party agree that the goal is for all households and all enterprises to have sufficient broadband capacity? And with the plans that the government and government parties are now working on, when will we achieve that goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1951	I fully agree with the representative Myrli that we cannot have any lower ambition than 100 pst. So we know that the last percentages won't always just cost more, but it'll also take a little longer. That is why we must be ambitious in this area too in the future. So there's one more thing that I want to add, and that's that the government is now also considering a development obligation that's a little different than what we have. I think that can be a very important measure, so that one also causes the operators to assume a greater degree of responsibility to be able to do this, just as the representative referred to in the case of electricity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1958	National tourist roads have contributed to the profiling and uplifting of more exciting and attractive road sections other than the main road network. Visiting figures are good, and there is close and good cooperation with tourist enterprises, county municipalities and municipalities, which are also involved and contribute financially. Once again, I note that the Ministry of Transport will look into the overall resource use of national tourist roads. It is a small contribution in this year's budget that they are to postpone this assessment to NTP, but nevertheless we in the Central Party have a concern that the values of these roads for Norwegian tourism are not sufficiently recognised. For us, it's important that there are people in the government parties who can actually flag this case. I also asked this question to the Count last year. What view does the Christian People’s Party have on national tourist roads, and is there cause for concern for future appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1963	Since I get the question again, I perceive that he might not have been quite satisfied with the answer he received last year. I guess I can't give you the same answer right now. National tourist routes are important to tourist Norway, I think I can be quite clear on that. So it's the way in this country that the districts, where these tourist gems often lie, are also concerned with the safe and secure way of the business they're supposed to represent, for the settlement they have, so here it's also going to be about a priority all the way. So I think that's good, what's in the setting today. We need to evaluate this in more detail. That doesn't mean they're not important, but we have to see this in a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1970	First of all, I have to say that I can't be too hard with the representative Gruvan, because I've just got a great impression – with a flower and good words – but I'm going to bring up something that I think both parties, the Christian People's Party and the SV, are quite in agreement. One thing he stressed in his post was safe traffic, that is. safe roads, road safety. One part of my question is whether the representative has seen the reports that came from the State Road Administration last October, it was well, where they say that two and three-field roads with middle parts are much safer indeed than the more modern narrow four-field roads. That means that if we don't take into account that it must be 110 km/h – speed kills, I've read – then maybe the representative Gruvan is more interested in scaling down to two and three-field roads? The last question is this with Nav and TT. Can he comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1979	To take the last one first. The extended TT system, which we have now seen working in some states, and where users can tell about a whole new life after this scheme came into place, compared to the way it was before, I think it's important that we get systems that can be more rights-based than it is today. That is why I am very pleased that the position in the committee has been that one now wants to have an assessment of whether it can now be possible to transfer this to Nav, so that one can give the same opportunities wherever you live in the country. As far as road safety is concerned, there has been a careful assessment both in the State Road Service, to which the representative refers, and in the Department, and I believe that the solution that is now on the table will take care of road safety in a very good way. The middle part we know means a lot, and the way to think about expanding the four-field path that is now being proposed, I think is a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1986	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e1991	Transport is unlikely to mean much to people everyday. There are trips to work, to school, yes, it may actually matter if you can have the job you have. We have trips, we're going to get goods out, and I think that's why interest in this field is so great in the Norwegian population. We know that investing in this field is investment both for people and for business into the future. We want people to live in the whole country, and in this way we also bind people and land together. It is important that this sector participates in climate responsibility. I want to say that with what we are doing now in terms of biofuels and electrification on both sea and road, and with this budget, where we have an increase of 20 pst. both on rail and on urban areas, it shows a willingness to bet. Then, unfortunately, we experience that people lose their lives through transport. Even if we're among the best in the world to handle it, we have to have an ambition that it's going to go down. 2020 has been a very special year. The society was shut down, but we still keep the wheels running in Transport-Noreg. I have to thank those who have just stood in front of me and done that job. It has our bus drivers, it has our taxi drivers, it has our employees in the Post, the freight traffic. The job that has been done has been invaluable. I would also like to thank the Stortinge for the work we have done together, both to ensure activity as society shuts down, what we have done for aviation, for public travellers, for express buses, for railways, for coasts and to ensure that freight traffic goes. Then I would like to thank the Progress Party for the budgetary entity we have created in this area – now that I was enthusiastic about Hoksrud doesn't seem necessary. There are many who have reason to be enthusiastic. So we have double the trajectories over the course of these seven years. I remember being the leader of the transport committee. It's been ten years since – for this sector, it's a completely different time. On the railway, I now have a 32.2 billion prize. kr. That's an increase of 6 billion. kr – 20 pst. We now have a progress on the Westfold Railway, the Dovrebanen and the Eastfold Railway, which is rational, and we now also make it possible to launch the Kleverud-Sørli through this budget. We have an ERTMS bet that is Norway's largest ICT project. We open the Ulriken tunnel a little over a week ago, and now we're going to rehabilitate the old one. In Trøndelag, as Gunne mentioned, the construction of the electrification project begins on Meråkerbanen, Stavne-Leangenbanen and parts of the Trønderbanen. On the way, we have 37.7 billion. kr. We have now started construction on E18 Lysaker – Ramstadsletta, rv. 4 Roa–Gran must we start with, and also E39 Myrmel–Lunde, E39 Lännet–Hjelset, E39 Ørskogbergellet, crab field. We have preliminary work on the E8 Sørbotn–Laukslett, E10 Hålogalandsvegen and the Sotra connection, and Rogfast will also be working with us. This will create incredibly important jobs. We also reduce the maintenance run on national roads again in 2021. As I said, we have investment in urban areas, but also on the coast. That's 2.7 billion. kr, and we make our own proposition about the City Tunnel before Easter. It also gives hope to me. I believe that a former Minister of Transport as a member of the Chamber has had a significant impact on the fact that we are starting this project. It shows that one can get things even after one has left certain positions. So there's a huge investment in this sector. That's good for people. It is particularly important at a time when we need to create jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2012	The President will open the door to a change of lines. The President will encourage those who want to have lines, to draw themselves, so that we get a fair distribution of the eight lines. The first replicator is Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2019	The government proposes to continue the compensation scheme to train companies in 2021. I am thinking about the extraordinary compensation due to the loss of ticket revenue in the situation we are now in. The special thing is that the government made up for the Fly train not to be part of that scheme – the flight that is very central to transporting people to and from the airport, those who are going to travel, but also a very large number of employees at the airport. That's very strange, because the other train companies initially have ticket receipts and government support through public purchases, and now ad hoc support. The flight only has tickets, but the government said they should not be part of the compensation scheme. The majority of the Committee on Transport, on the other hand, considers this to be the case. Has the Minister of Transport noticed that, and will he now include the Flytrain in the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2028	I've noticed that. I guess that's also said in the setting, and I'll follow it up. When we come up with aviation measures during January, we will also look at this issue. What we need to know is that right now there is a significantly lower activity at Oslo airport Gardermoen. Yeah, there's almost no activity compared to what we have in a normal time. It also means that the travel activity to and from the aerodrome is a completely different one. When it comes to this particular company, the Flytrain, which provides very good services, we are on the owner's side. It's the state that owns this. I am not responsible for that part. But we're responsible for the funds we're going to allocate. We have to evaluate it, but it is also that it will not be desirable for too many empty trains to go to and from Gardermoen in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2038	I make it clear that this has nothing to do with the ownership of the Flytrain, this has to do with the compensation system, i.e. the operation of the Flytrain. And the Fly train has exactly the same problems, maybe bigger, than the other train companies have. But I interpret the Minister of Transport positively, that he will treat the train companies in a non-discriminatory manner, and that the scheme will also include the Flytrain. On Wednesday afternoon we received a shocking message that all ferries and speedboats from Boreal Company had been given a sailboat. There were many connections, from Finnmark in the north to Rogaland in the south. When something like that happens, to such an extent, it has very big consequences. I will, as I did in my main post today, stress that security must be first priority anyway, so it is good, but I will challenge the Minister of Transport from his point of view as responsible for the transport: what really happened, and how does the Minister of Transport assess the situation that arose?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2047	The representative Myrli also took this up in his post, and he referred to that we had a meeting with the Maritime Directorate. I want to say that the Maritime Directorate is under the Minister of Industry, and it is an independent directorate. In that kind of situation, it's the ones that evaluate the security. That's not why I was present at that meeting. It was to consider, if necessary, what remedial measures we had to take if this situation were to continue. That was the basis for me attending that meeting. Then, in such situations, the Ministry of Economic Affairs becomes familiar with what the Directorate of Maritime Affairs is doing, and is also responsible for what information will come out. I am also aware that this came as a surprise both in municipalities and other parties, and there is something we need to consider, for health, security and preparedness in the municipalities must be well aware of whether such events happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2054	I thank you for the answer and would like to say on behalf of the Workers' Party that I think it is very good that these questions are taken seriously and that this is being worked seriously. We're going from train and ferry to aviation and airport and to the Minister of Transport's homelands: Sunnhordland and Oslo- Stord. As the Minister for Transport knows, the Committee on Transport says in its position – not only in a majority opinion, I think it is a unanimous committee – that the new regime should also apply to the Oslo-Stord route. As I said earlier today: Today, a letter from the Ministry of Transport to Stord Airport has expired, arguing against the fact that the Oslo-Stord flight will be part of the scheme. Can the Minister for Transport now clarify what has happened? I understood that this was also part of the budgetary negotiations between the government parties and the Progress Party. What's the status?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2063	We're working high with this offer. We come, among others. return here in January with aviation in general. We've had some flights where we've had some extraordinary measures, which are socially critical, that we're totally dependent on health transport, other leaderships, or because the transport situation in the region is so serious that we're forced to make extra efforts. We should also consider Stord further, but so far we do not consider that it is of the kind of critical activity that we must have in place. And yes, this is the airport I can see from my stova home at Bømlo, but I also know that one can run from Stord to Haugesund Airport in less than an hour, where there is a very good offer, and where we have gone in with extra flight purchases. One can also travel from Stord to Flesland Airport and use an offer from there. So I must say that the supply in the north and in the west has been even more important to give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2074	I very much agree with the Council of State that there are an incredible number of people in the transport sector who have done an amazing job through the Corona in 2020. It is also important that we now have to work to get new jobs. New freight terminal in Kopstad is a project that has been worked on a lot – private actors are involved. A short time ago, there were signals from Bane NOR that they had no longer intended to be involved in securing tracks down to the terminal. And then it also comes out that the Railway Directorate is going to clarify this before New Year's Eve. This is a very important project that means a lot to business, municipalities and the region of Vestfold and Telemark. I would like to ask the Council of State to say what he thinks about the signals that suddenly come from Bane NOR and the Directorate of Railways – if that is true. Or will the Council of States actively contribute to the creation of a solution here?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2079	This is an important project. The representative of Stordalen has given me clear clues about his thinking, and I agree that this is a project that should be prioritised precisely because one puts billions in this social investment. Getting this terminal is very important. Then we have to be ready for the private actors to set up here, who are also ready to take their part in the job. We're going to have a meeting with Bane NOR to follow this up. But our intention is exactly the same as I'm hearing the representative Hoksrud comes with here, that this is a project that we should give priority to. We have our part of the job – to facilitate it. We want to have a good dialogue with Bane NOR to ensure that. So this is a distance that uses billions. Fortunately, there's a smaller sum that we use here, but the more important it is that we get it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2086	First, I would like to thank the Council of State, Mr Hareide, for a good budget for transport. I'm glad we agreed to spend more money on the road, and because he agreed to spend more money on reducing the bombing burden, most people are happy with it. We are very pleased with the bomb exemption on the side roads in the Progress Party. With regard to the booms on the E6, the Viking County Municipality today decided not only to turn them off for next year, but also this year. The Inland has also adopted earlier this year. There are not many days left of the year before we go into one of the year's most important festivals, which is Christmas. There is a big difference between turning off the booms after Christmas or before Christmas. Now that all the formal decisions have been taken to turn the bombs off: will the minister ensure that it is implemented immediately, then I mean before Christmas, or will the minister passively sit still and watch the bureaucrats work at their slow pace, so that the bombs do not turn off before 30 December 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2091	I hear the enthusiasm of the representative Johnsen for reducing the toll burden, and I'm glad. Then I would like to say that there are many bureaucrats who are doing a very good job, and who have just helped to ensure that many good decisions in this room are carried out. Let's see what we can do to get speed in these decisions. We depend precisely on the dialogue with the county councils, they have a guarantee responsibility here, so we have also been dependent on that dialogue. We have now received a clear 'go' from Stortinget, and we also get it from the county, do what we can to make this happen as soon as possible. That has been our wish absolutely all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2096	I want to return to the dramatic situation when the Maritime Directorate had to stop the boats and the ferries to Boreal. It was dramatic for people, for business and for salmon transport. There was a crisis loss in many places, and three ministers had urgent meetings with the Maritime Directorate. Of course, security and security must come first, and I expect that we will get even more details afterwards. But the E6 on the Salt Mountain was closed 141 times last winter. People and goods didn't come out. E10 Bjørnfjell was closed 1 200-1 300 hours last winter, salmon transports stood. Were three ministers then called to the emergency meeting? No, what has happened after that is that the Salt Mountain, the Bjørn Mountain and the Sennaland have fallen out of the list of priority winter roads. Can the Minister defend it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2101	What I can safely defend is that during the reign of the government of Solberg, we have double investments in infrastructure and transport. I was the leader of the transport committee ten years ago. At that time, the permissions for railway purposes were one third of what they are today. Road applications have been doubled since then. So it's a huge investment in infrastructure. That's what I think is very good, because it doesn't matter least to District Norway, and it matters to business. I thought the representative Mossleth here told me very well how important it is for us to be able to create jobs. That is why it is so important that we give priority to this field. So there will always be some road projects that should be further ahead in line, but there has been an incredibly large investment, and that is the pace at which we must continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2106	After all, the treble-folding of the rail budget has not gone to the districts – exceedances have occurred in the central eastern region. But district policy is important, and I want to refer to a report made by the NHO in 2015. It showed that the value creation in North Norway would increase by 20 billion. NOK 2040 if we turned to more district policy. The government has done the opposite and has speeded up centralization. According to the report, this will lead to a lower value creation of 11 billion. So the difference is 31 billion. kr. So more district policy is not emergency aid; it's investment for income acquisition. But how can it be that the fish that have to wait does not count in diet-benefit analyses, and how can it be that a person who has to wait counts more in Oslo than, for example, in Berlevåg?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2112	I think that the socio-economic analyses must always be evaluated, it should not be the only thing we look at. Now the district minister is also in the Chamber, and precisely the fact that we have prioritised such a gigantic pedestal is all about the fact that there is one of the District Norway's main requests. Just think about what new path has contributed to, for example, the South, the importance it has had for a good part of District Norway – I also think in Trøndelag. Now we will also build in Troms and Finnmark, via New Vegar. That kind of bet means a lot, precisely because they can create jobs and make a place to live in the whole country. No, the district minister here, but I actually mean that that portfolio and that we've invested in the field we're working on, has a huge impact on District Norway, and maybe it's all, most importantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2117	Now it's like a normal one should take a line on the posts of the Council of State, so I listened very well to the Council of State. But it ends up I have to take up what I sail said in my main post, and confronting or raising questions about this with what happens after the corona. It was serious – I think it is very important to think about it, especially in the process towards the national transport plan. My question to the Council of State is whether to take the initiative of a very large number of studies — preferably a little fast but extensive research — around travel habits that come, as the population sees for themselves, up to the national transport plan. What effect does the Council of State think this pandemic will have, for example: for his assessment in the case of the third runway at the Gardermoen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2122	I believe that the representative Nävra is reflecting on here, it's important that we take over. There may be significant changes due to that situation. So I want to say that in this budget is one of the most important things we have done, to ensure progress on the railway project that is in progress, and I think that is right in any case. But when we come, for example. To the national transport plan, there's a lead from our side that we only want to have projects in the first period and not in the second period, precisely because we're going to be completely sure of the types of decisions we make, and that we know that we're making the right decisions. There may be lasting changes that make us think about what we're working on here, and that we're now discussing in this room, and we have to fix that. But I believe the leads that we have put in the budget here, among other things. the enormous investment on the railways and on the city, is right in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2127	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2132	New technology is shaping our lives more and more – everyday life, social life and our working life. Digitalisation is one of the main drivers of increased productivity, better services in both the public and private sectors. The pandemic has digitized Norway at record speed. Good mobile and broadband networks, good public digital common solutions and a digitally mature population have made it possible. The Government has proposed an offensive commitment to digitisation and maintains a high rate of digitisation. In our budget, it's over 1.5 billion. kr allocated to digitisation measures in 2021. This sum includes both measures to facilitate private business activities and measures to promote efficiency and quality in public service production. Norwegian participation in the EU’s new major digital programmes, the Digital Europe Programme, will provide Norwegian enterprises and research environments with access to skills and resources in artificial intelligence, supercomputers, ICT security and advanced digital competences. The Government encourages Norway to have a leading position of 5G. It becomes important for business and public services throughout the country. Billions of money are invested in 5G, and Norway is well advanced in development. An example of our strong position is Telenor, which is one of the EU's 5G projects that explores innovative solutions, including: for e-health, shipping and transport. Digital competences and participation in the whole population are a prerequisite for extracting the benefits of digitisation. The government therefore contributes, inter alia, to: through grants to establish a low-threshold offer of guidance on basic digital competence in all municipalities in the country, called Digihelpen. Since 2017, 124 municipalities have received grants. The government wants living communities and growth throughout Norway. Good and secure broadband and mobile networks are an important prerequisite for living, moving and working and creating values throughout Norway. Almost all households in the country offer basic broadband that is good enough to download online newspapers, online commerce, online banking, e-mail and public services. Developments are formidable for very fast broadband. In June, 89 pst. of households offering broadband at 100 Mbit/s. Therefore now everything indicates that we achieve our ambitious goal that we set in 2016, that 90 pst. households in Norway shall have 100 Mbits/s by the end of 2020. In the EU’s most recent DESI index, Norway, together with Denmark, is the main source of mobile and broadband access across Europe. Broadband is being developed on a commercial basis at a rapid pace across the country. The government will give priority to using national funds in scattered areas, and there we will spend 264 million in 2021. kr. An increasingly digitised society is also becoming more vulnerable to outcomes in the digital core wall. That is why we are further strengthening the preparedness of mobile networks. Since 2014, it has been allocated 415 million. to strengthen mobile networks in particularly vulnerable district municipalities. After the draft budget for 2021, an enhanced mobile network is created in additional municipalities. The government budget proposal for 2021 facilitates living communities and growth throughout Norway. We want to create more and include more, and we're going to do that by having world-class digital services, broadband and mobile networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2153	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2158	The economy is calling for a power cap for broadband from the government. The managing director of Telenor tells Inside Telecom that the government's cut in broadband funds in the budget will lead to increased digital differences in Norway. The managing director of ICT-Norway is both frustrated and disappointed that the agreement did not increase the amount of broadband support. He's saying that the bulk of the population is $650 million. kr to lower snuff and alcohol charges instead of increasing broadband support. He says straight out that the Progress Party has switched broadband from snus. All opposition parties have more to broadband than the government. Can the Council of State explain why they don't bet more on broadband?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2163	The extraordinary allocation that makes us spend 406 million. kr on broadband in the current year was an additional corona measure, which was just as much about building broadband as creating activity. For 2021 we have the highest allocation of broadband ever, and as I said in my post, the state will give priority to broadband where the market does not expand. The commercial actors spent 12 billion. kr to expand broadband last year. In addition to having the good model in Norway, which means that we are selected to have Europe's best network access, together with Denmark, we are now also building out 5G on a large scale. Yesterday, I was with Ice and opened the third 5G network, the company that opened its 5G network in Norway, and together with the strong commitment to broadband development across Norway, we will quickly be able to achieve the goal that any household in Norway should have access to high-speed broadband.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2168	How pleasant it is to have the Minister for Digitalisation in a transport debate in Stortinget – as a former member and head of the Committee! In fact, we have two state councils that have been the head of the transport committee. But that is not the case. I stand here with an enquiry I have received from a vessel at Skarnes, South Odal. He has moved into a new house in the fall, but does not get broadband installed by the broadband provider until several months have passed. People today rely on broadband to make the workplace work. Many people have the job at home, quite simply. We get a lot of such enquiries – whether it's not possible to get broadband, or like here, that it's going to be built, but it takes a very long time. My question to the Minister for Digitalisation is: What rights do citizens have in such a situation? Can broadband providers do as they please?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2177	First, I would like to say that it is very nice to have the opportunity to be back and debate with the Transport Committee, not least important infrastructure as our digital base wall is. We've been expanding broadband across Norway at high speed over the last few years, but it's true, as Myrli's representative points out, that in scattered areas in particular, there's still a lot left. In particular, the pandemic has shown us that all households in Norway must have access to good broadband, both by sitting and working at school at home, and by working from home. We from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation have a good dialogue with the companies, which we know work hard to give priority to the scattered strata, but I believe that together with the 5G expansion, we will reach them much more now, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2184	That is probably true, but my question was more about what rights customers have to broadband suppliers. In the case of mobile networks, in the case of electricity, we have a law whereby suppliers are obliged to deliver, and customers have rights. Here it is about Skarnes in the south of Odal, the municipality of the south of Odal. I'd say it's a big place, an hour from Oslo, and of course that has to be broadband. In this case, first of all, it is difficult to get in touch with the broadband provider – the Minister for Digitalisation should not answer for it – but when it takes many months for the broadband provider to install broadband, it is very unfortunate. And this is a new house, in a relatively large place. So my question was: does the consumer have, does the customer, have any rights in such a situation, or can broadband suppliers do exactly what they want?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2190	I also get a lot of such enquiries, and I also know that the companies get it, and I feel that the companies are doing what they can to have a good dialogue with the customers. I know, among other things. that several of the companies also spend a lot of time travelling around and meeting with advisers and local elected representatives to identify the situation, especially in many district municipalities. It has been that much of the priority has been more in the central strata. Now we're left with the 10% that's extra expensive and extra challenging, because because of our topography in Norway, it's not as easy to get anywhere. But I expect companies to respond quickly to the customer, and I also expect them to do what they can to give priority to the scattered strokes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2195	It's nice that we have both the Minister of Digitalisation and, not least, the Minister of District here in the Chamber, so I've chosen to have a little open access to the first question, because transport means a lot to our districts. There must be a strong commitment to both race and bottleneck removal, rail crossings, freight terminals, ports, fairways, ferry services – all – and not least to broadband coverage in the district and on the mobile network. There's a riot out in the districts. I think most people have experienced that. There's a riot out in the districts. They feel neglected and that they are not part of the development that is taking place in the area of transport and not least communication. Transport and communication shall bind this country together. Now that the government has got its own district minister, what does the Council of State intend to do to reverse this huge distribution of resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2204	When the Solberg government went on, after the Ministry of Transport had been owned by a central party council, we had to launch a power plant to expand good infrastructure throughout Norway. Norway was starving on both the road and the track. That's why this government, together with the Progress Party, after seven years now has managed to double the transport budget. It says a little bit about how little the Senter Party prioritised transportation. I fully agree with the representative that this is crucial for the districts, and therefore I am very pleased that Minister of Transport Hareide is so clear that he will give priority to the districts. For people should be able to live and work around the coast and in our villages, there must be ferries going. There must be county roads where the maintenance seat suspension has been introduced. It must be possible for companies to export their goods quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2211	Yes, I agree that a lot of money is spent on transportation. My question was about bias, and if you go into the budget, you see where the largest sums go, and what's used. It's almost the big cities. In my next question, I thought of going directly to what is the Council's job here, in terms of being a digital minister. There are some goals that say that 98 pst. Households will be offered fibre, and there are figures that say that the public support needs have been estimated up to 9 billion. kr. When the government wants to give only 264 million. kr in government grants in 2021, that means that if you want to achieve this objective of 98 pst., it takes 34 years. Is the Council satisfied that it will take 34 years for people to gain access to fibre in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2218	I do not entirely agree with that, because right now there is a major technology shift in the digital core wall in Norway. From the time we've had copper networks, we're about to phase it out, and we're replacing it with fiber in large parts of the country. But it's the roll out of 5G that will allow our digital base wall to go from a four-field highway to an eight-field highway. It will help residents around Norway, but not least it will be an industrial boost. It will help to develop new industries and new jobs, not least in the districts, where the use of natural resources together with our industrial competence and a digital core wall – which is world-class, yes, actually the best in Europe – will ensure that Norway can now claim and create many jobs around the district of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2223	To the last thing that the Council of State said -- that's where we very much agree. When it comes to having a lot of fields on a digital highway, we're pretty much in agreement. But I'm going to draw attention to an environment that the Council of State knows well. It is environment Kongsberg in Buskerud – old, good Buskerud. I have had many meetings with them, with many high-tech companies there, 5,500 employees. They are at the forefront of high technology. Among other things, we know that Norway is in third place in what is called the ‘autonomous readiness index’ in the case of self-driving vehicles. We are very advanced, have enormous potential and have worked on it in the context of the green new deal, which SV has worked a lot to develop. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council see a restriction, what do she possibly have of ideas to facilitate self-driving vehicles in Norway, and how does she view it in connection with the 5G network?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2230	In this case, the 5G network is crucial, and we have now established a regulatory sandbox under the Data Protection Authority where we are going to test some things further, including within the transport area. I believe that autonomous vehicles, not just at sea, will be the future and make us more efficient and more mobile-friendly and greener modes of transport. I also believe that when we are to develop smart cities – and smart towns for that part – autonomous vehicles will be crucial. At that time, good planning skills are needed in municipalities, so that the transport part of the development of the municipality facilitates the use of autonomous vehicles, thus also contributing to Norway's entry into a greener future and the achievement of climate objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2235	I fully agree that of course we need planning skills in our municipalities and cities to meet a new time in this area. But the question was more technical in terms of what we have to provide in terms of 5G, the management systems, and whether other systems are needed to do this, so that we can keep our incredible position. In a few years, the environment in Norway may indicate 100 billion. kr in turnover on exports of technology and products in this sector. So if you ever want to see the relationship between technical solutions and business development, I think this is an area where the Council of State absolutely has to look at, in consultation with the Minister of Transport as well. My question is: what action can the Council of State take to facilitate even better developments in the technical field of autonomous vehicle management systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2242	The government is now working on frequency allocation of the 5G network, and there we are very concerned that the industry should have good opportunities and access to the network. If it is not completely impossible to implement what is pointed out by the representative, namely how to develop the transport sector much more to make use of autonomous vehicles. I am very pleased that the government is now giving priority to joining in Europe's digital project, where it is precisely about using our leading environments of competence to establish clusters and be part of the great European digital muscle that is now to be built up. It is linked to the use of 7 billion in Europe. EUR by establishing hubs here to look at digitisation, transport or renewables in marine applications, together with the main areas of expertise we have in Norway. Here it's going to happen big things, and we can have the opportunity to create a lot of jobs if we do it right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2249	I think we need to clarify that this isn't about 5G expansion or fiber expansion. It has to be done both, and actually it is that to succeed with the 5G bet, fiber is a prerequisite. But I want to go back to what more people have brought up here now, about broadband coverage. The goal must be that all households and businesses have it. What the authorities, at least in the past, have set as a target, I think is 100 Mbit/s. If I am wrong, someone will correct me – I live well with it – but I believe it is 100 Mbit/s. The objective must be that everyone has it, and I expect the Minister for Digitalisation to agree with it. I think it now hangs a little bit of what the plan looks like in the future. When can we achieve the goal that everyone has satisfactory broadband coverage?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2256	I am very pleased that the representative Myrli asks the question, because there should not be any uncertainty about it again. The overall objective is that all households in Norway should have access to high-speed broadband. It is quite right, as the representative Myrli says, that the goal we set in 2016 was that by the end of 2020, 90 pst. of households have access to 100 Mbit/s. In July we had 89 pst., and I dare with quite great certainty say that we are going to achieve that goal by December 31 – that 90 pst. households shall have 100 Mbits/s. In 2016, the EU set 50 pst. of households as a measure. Right now, the government is running and is working on a new big message that we're going to get to Stortinget, where we're going to set the new ambitious target when we're going to make sure that all the households have access to high-speed broadband, and how we're going to do it using 5G, fiber and mobile networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2262	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2267	We're going to continue with broadband, and now it's going to be about the situation on the broadband front in District Norway. The government boasts – and we heard that at the latest – that there are so many who have broadband of satisfactory quality, but still underestimate that this is largely true in urban areas. The pandemic we're up in has shown that access to the Internet is important, and how important it is to the inhabitants of the whole country. As big business representatives, we now know what it's like to have digital meetings, and we've been given signals about how it feels to have both school and home offices on digital surfaces. There is a great deal of discrimination going on in the country. If you live in a city, there is a great chance that you have a network access that allows you to work from home without any special problems. You live in District Norway, there's almost as much chance that you have good as you have bad network access. When we know that in the future we will use digital surfaces to a much greater extent than before, both for health, education, work and transport purposes, the government should invest much more in the development of district Norway. In fact, according to the organisation Societal Enterprises, 285,000 households do not have access to high-quality broadband. According to the same organisation, there is a digital gap between city and country. That's 4 pst. missing broadband of at least 100/10 Mbit/s in urban strips, with 44 pst. missing in pig-grown bran. Director of the Energy Society, Cecilie Bjelland, said on Wednesday in a public debate in Kommunal Report: «It is problematic when the picture freezes in the middle of the film. But it is critical if young people are not given lessons, or workers are not allowed to do their job because of bad networks." The same organisation says that with the help of private funds and appropriations of 650 million. kr annually this gap may be closed. But instead of having such a plan – now the Council of State shows that a plan will come, but it is too late – the government is basing itself on the market to deal with this as well. 264 million. kr is not enough. Nor has the Workers' Party set aside 650 million. NOK, but we've spent 500 million on the entire expansion period. kr to broadband, as well this year, in our alternative budget. Such an amount could lead to full expansion in a much shorter time than government appropriations, which are about half. The digital future is here now. We've seen that through this pandemic. Then the government should have understood that the need is much greater than what they put into their budget or for that part of the lack of the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. So the government parties and the Advance Party make it a point that more money has been allocated to broadband in the period 2014-2020 than under the red-green government. I would like to comment on that already, because I guess that's what's going on in the debate. Technology is developing – fortunately – and it is a fact that the Workers' Party in government with the Centre Party and SV would have granted significantly more for this purpose than what has been granted in the civil era. We believe all three parties that broadband is a very basic infrastructure, in line with the installed water and electricity. Making sure that all households throughout Norway have access to the fast and stable Internet is an investment in the future. So the right-hand government still doesn't impress the digital field. If we are to have full broadband coverage, it is best to change government – from a blue-blue government to a government with green and red color.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2285	Good business welfare services and competitiveness require both high-quality and efficient modern infrastructure and secure transport solutions. Technological developments provide enormous opportunities in the transport sector. New technologies and solutions can increase freedom of movement for all while reducing costs, emissions, accidents and queues. Since 2013, we have had a historic commitment to culture, and the budget for culture is almost double. But the permissions alone are not enough. It is equally important that we make maximum use of resources. A good example of this is the creation of the road company Nye Vegar AS, which has been a great success. The establishment of the company has shown that competition also in the construction of infrastructure produces good results with lower costs and, at the same time, better results. We'll get more money for the money we usually do. The state Road Service must have the same tools as the New Roads. I am pleased that there is now a testing of two models for the early involvement of the contractor that the State Road Service can test out. The aim is to find the most effective solutions for the implementation of road projects and to help cut costs and reduce construction time. The state's roadway service ignites boasting of E6 in Hedmark and Rv. 3 through the Baltic Valley, which opened in the summer to 1.5 billion. kr less than budgeted. The same thing happens in my home country, Telemark, on Rv. 36, where the road project Seljord-Bø is completed before 30 p.m. under the budget. Here, cooperation with the entrepreneur and good planning will be pointed out by the Road Administration of the State. The rates of this distance will be set down to delight too many. Just as with changes in the way of thinking about building roads, Right wants better coordination of the construction of infrastructure between municipalities, state authorities and, where appropriate, private operators. In my home state of Telemark, in the municipality of Wittseid, the municipality wants to have a long-distance walk and cycle path while working on a new water and sewerage system on the same route. This should be a reasonable use of resources, and I am pleased that there is a joint committee asking the Council of State to follow up this important point. The Government's commitment to the development and maintenance of the railway is, together with the railway reform, the largest effort on Norwegian rail over 50 years. The aim of the railway reform is to provide passengers with a better train offer while getting more and better rail for the money. Competition also on the railway works. It facilitates more innovation in the sector and makes better use of resources than before. The government’s strategy for digitising the public sector and the wide-ranging development of digital infrastructure are important in order to give citizens, businesses and the voluntary sector a simpler everyday life. The most important provision to achieve this is that all households and private and public enterprises are offered a good quality broadband service. Digitalisation is and will be a powerful tool for achieving the objectives of public sector simplification and efficiency. It is important for the public to be able to offer modern solutions to citizens in a digital time. For us the Nordics are major consumers of digital tools. According to Competence Norway, in a survey, it appears that 86 pst. by the population using digital tools such as the Internet, smartphone, computer or tablet. The study shows that in the last ten years the proportion of non-digital falls from 24 pst. to 14 pst. Digital inclusion has also become even more important since covid-19 when much of the interaction in society is digital. Digital competences and participation in the whole population through the life cycle are a key element in extracting the benefits of digitalisation in the public and private sectors. In the State budget, a fund for the provision of guidance in basic digital competences in all the municipalities of the country is proposed, as the State Council of Hofstad Greece also pointed out in its contribution. Access to fast and stable broadband is fundamental and important for us to build, work and feed throughout the country. The availability of high-speed broadband has increased significantly in recent years, from 63 pst. of households in 2013 to about 90 pst. of households today. Today's government has arranged for early 5G expansion, among others. by purchasing free frequencies from Norwegian television, which are now allocated to mobile operators. 5G deployment is in full swing and network owners have national coverage targets over three to four years. This is a good starting point for the technological developments we see in the field of transport with smart cities and self-driving cars. 5G expansion will be a new era in digitization history.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2306	This is a day of joy. For the Progress Party, this part of the autumn's budget debate may be the most important and the best. Before 2013, these debates were not as interesting. They were interesting in the sense that it was too little. As the Labour Party said when the Advance Party went to government: it was too little, and it was too much, too early and too late. That's pretty much what we heard. The debate on transport before the debate was about everything that had not been prioritised, because that was true – it was not a priority, it was not a willingness to expand Norway. From 2013 there has been an adventurous bet, and I am happy to be able to negotiate a settlement with the government parties Christian People's Party, Right and Left. There is no doubt that there has been a massive focus on transportation. When I hear others go to the pulpit and talk about two- and three-field roads, I'll say, there's nothing very wrong with it, but it's not so bad to build modern, right paths for the future either. And to those who talk about narrow quadruple roads as if there's something dangerous: No, the carriageway is as wide. That's what you have in between and on the side, it's about. We're going to build roads that hold for the future. There are enough examples from this room in recent years of projects that have been relatively new but have become too small and undersized. Even at the same time as you open the road, they're really too small and too undersized. I just want to tell you a little bit about what's in the budget deal. That's about 1 billion. kr more on the way after the conciliation, and it is approximately 2.5 billion. kr more reduction in tolls. That means something, because we think the drivers deserve a lower share. There are FOT routes set up, there is reasphalting of highways, rescue car in Rennfast, E134 column layout Wagslid, rv. 41 Southern Herefoss-Hynnekleiv, E6 Hölenbruene, E10 Tjeldsundbrua, rv. 13 The Church, E6 new river bridge in Finnmark and Nordland, rv. 111 Tranga, rv. 13 Kyrkkenes-Bjortveit, E14 Stjørdal to the Swedish border, E16 Øye-Turtnes, E39 Byrkekelo-Sandane, E39 Roadbust crossing, cross rv. 15 The border with fv. 15 Valdresflya, rv. 9 Kristiansand-Hovden, rv. 502 Eigerøy bridge and E6 Transfarev bridge. Furthermore, it is Rv. 3 Lonåsen–Tinset, it is Helgelandsmoen, and it is the reasphalting of county roads, subsidies for reduced tolls outside the urban areas, strengthening of the TT system, purchase of maritime transport services, the Bergen–Kirkenes section – because the Progress Party understood that it had to be paid to drive the Hurtigruten; other opposition parties did not understand that – Kongswingerbanen, the entrance and repair of the Breiland molo, and not least the City Ship Tunnel, but there is more to come. This is in addition to what the government put on the table. That's what the Progress Party negotiated. The party of progress is a difference, because the party of progress is important for transportation, and it has always been. City Ship Tunnel: Yes, to me, as one of the Progress Party’s main negotiators for the NTP in 2017, it was important. It was also important at the time, when other parties said that this was a vision and a wishful dream. No, it was an NTP that was to be followed up. But in the same years I have also said: we need to have cost control on all projects. It has been important, precisely out of respect for all other projects that have been in the NTP. As if it wasn't enough, it was a cash subsidy for Fv. 353 The Gasswegen, which has a history from the 1970s when the Workers' Party promised something. So it went 50 years, but the Progress Party had to clean up. InterCity Vestfoldbanen – I was so much involved in the line change – has received 75 million. SEK for planning Stokke-Sandefjord. It's absolutely vital to get two trains an hour from Skien. This was incredibly important, and the county rapporteur in Vestfold and Telemark, Terje Riis Johansen of the Senterpartiet, has referred to this section as the most important thing to do. It is also the main project of the County Head of the Centre Party and the First Candidate of the Centre Party. But the Central Party here in Stortinget has said that we need to talk to people, and in their budget it says about safe and efficient transport throughout the country. Obviously, it's not for the south of Dovre. I don't know what Westfolding and Telemarkings think today, when it turns out until those degrees are revealed that you only talk to those you choose yourself, but not your own. Obviously, the county rapporteur, Terje Riis Johansen, does not have an impact in his own party, and Siv Mossleth and the rest do not talk to everyone either – and at least not his own. It is good The Progress Party – together with the Christian People's Party, Right and Left – has made sure to save the Westfold path.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2335	Even though the government is paying for transportation in the 2021 budget with an increase of 20 pst. – that’s a big increase – the government’s priorities have a clear impact. Much of this money goes, as has been said earlier in the debate, to pay some exceedances that have been, especially on the railways. Transport challenges in districts are simply not being taken seriously. We can see that. This is once again a budget that reinforces the differences in the country. No matter what you say, and no matter what you've been negotiating about, the toll payment has speeded up under today's government – even when the Progress Party was sitting there. Expected toll collection in 2020 is 12.7 billion. kr, and the forecast for 2021 is 13.7 billion. kr. It's increased by 3.9 billion. kr from 2013 to 2021. Yes, we agree that there are several roads and several road projects, but there is no doubt that those road projects are financed by tolls. Although it was negotiated with relatively small sums in the agreement, and even though one is particularly pleased with removing side-by-side barriers, this is the actual figures in the budget. I think that's important to take over. The centre party has never said that you're for tolls, or that you're not against tolls, but it's another party that has said the opposite, that said the tolls were going away. I think the government's introduction of new road standards is very positive, and it's very long-awaited, which the centre party has pointed out many times. Of course, four-field highways are to be built where there is a need for it, but when you say two- and three-field roads are an old-fashioned way to do it, and maybe take a trip to Hardanger, where we actually also have highways, I react to it. The point must be to build roads based on what is needed. It's very important. There are roads today that don't have yellow stripe. So the centre part is not against four-field motorways, nor are we against narrow four-field motorways where appropriate. I would also like to point out that New Roads, once they have this opportunity, will choose the kind of solutions where there is an annual traffic that warrants it, just as the State Road Service does. It's getting more money, and it's making sure that the drivers don't pay more tolls than necessary. Especially in the districts, where daily traffic is low, it means that you have to sit and pay on this road for perhaps 20 to 30 years, if it is oversized, and if the Progress Party votes in the same way as they have done in the past in relation to toll proposals. Otherwise, it might become independent of what the Progress Party is voting for, such a solution. NTP is a plan for Norway as a whole, and we need to find that in the annual budgets. There must be a strong commitment to racial protection, bottleneck removal, rail crossings, freight terminals, ports and fairways, ferry services and the expansion of broadband coverage. Much of this has already been discussed in the debate. But it's not like this is being prioritised even though the transport budgets are high. It'll be down-prioritized in relation to other things. The budget is putting up a huge investment in traffic around the big cities. The central party wants a transport policy that ensures efficient transport of goods, people and information throughout the country, while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In major cities, transport growth is to be achieved through collective investment. The centre party indicates that increased subsidies for the development of the major urban areas account for a large part of the growth of the state budget and that this growth mainly benefits the largest cities. These projects have a high degree of implementation in the NTP, which says something about the priority, as opposed to projects in the districts that have been in the NTP for years without being realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2352	A pandemic has made the situation precarious for many, including in the field of transportation. Cost development and functionality can therefore be difficult to measure right now. Many companies have difficulties, many individuals are concerned about both jobs and the economy, and action packages have been needed in many areas. Then it is good that the Council of State thanks all those who have been in an extreme situation to ensure the necessary services, at the risk of both themselves and their own. Next year we will deal with the National Transport Plan. With this budget, we have allocated money to the government's first national transport plan and the first four-year period. Then it might be nice to set up the status. With this year's budget, the government is still 20 billion. kr according to its own national transport plan, and we have heard the Minister for Transport say that the increase in this year's budget is due to railway exceedances. There are many of the promises around in the whole country from 2017 that have not been realised, and there are many that are very disappointed because absolutely necessary projects have not started up as promised. We've eaten a lot of cake. We've had a flight of skills in the state road system. They're in front of a solid reorganization. The agreement with the Progress Party has made the situation worse for them. Competent employees are the most important resource we have. The government claims they're saving 25 billion. kr with the road reform and 12 br. It is extremely difficult for us to find a single point in the budget or anything else to document these claims. It's rather the opposite. With regard to road, the budget shows that the cost of new operating contracts has increased by 72 pst. A number of transport projects have large cost increases. The planning time is still twelve years, so it's still such that the council cuts strings on the roads planned by the red-green. The proportion of foreign entrepreneurs is increasing. It's very difficult to see, but in the last two years it's done, and it makes the socio-economic accounts worse. Climate change and lack of maintenance lead us to experience several races and closed roads. The maturity of the county roads is increasing year by year. Transfers of goods from road to sea and track are slaughtered by the National Audit Office. The deadline for the tunnel safety regulation has expired, and we are being charged by the EU. Bridges and other road maintenance are deferred. We have a toll uprising, we have a ferry uprising, and we have a district uprising. It's not the same description that comes from the government parties from this pulpit as what we hear when we're out talking to people. What's good is that the rate of hard damage and killing goes down. The concern is that it is increasing for soft road users. We have no one to lose. And it is good that negotiations on urban growth agreements are speeded up after there has been a standstill for a long time pending clarification on how to understand the toll settlement. All in all, taxpayers' money is being wasted. Most of the time, there's friction, fragmentation, reorganization and cheese-ability – without us evaluating or thinking about it. And the employees despair. The last one is the government's taxi industry free play. Especially in a world that is in crisis, one sees that market forces do not solve anything. Now we're going to go through a round of national transport plans, and next year it'll be a little bit of a job to pick up the threads and get more out of every single traffic ticket.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2369	The government of Solberg has been investing massively in traffic since it joined in 2013. The change of pace immediately came in close cooperation between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In the next budgets, the effort increased dramatically, so that we can see today that the budget has almost doubled over these years. There has been not only investment on the road, but also on rail and urban growth agreements. I can allow myself to rejoice that in 2020 we started up both the E18 West Corridor and the Fornebuban, projects that in their own way both contribute to increased reachability for collective travellers and reduce noise and dust pollution caused by car traffic. I am pleased that we have partners who see the importance of investing in big cities as well. Unfortunately, we can see that the Municipality of Oslo did not see fit to accept the additional grant of 600 million. kr that was in the pot after the toll settlement in 2019. It's got to be, it's good for others, but I understand the town councillor's dismay that the centre party is turning its back on the capital, especially considering that this is a party that takes the aim of forming a government with the Workers' Party after the next election. I can comfort the mayor that Oslo and Akershus did not receive any rewards the last time the Senterpartiet ruled the Ministry of Transport, either. But common destiny is a lean comfort in this context when it turns out that the Center Party does not come up with empty threats. An active climate policy requires an active urban policy. People moving to cities are a global trend. It is necessary to facilitate good urban environments with well-functioning public transport, bicycles and corridors. At the same time, business must have good framework conditions and the promotion of commercial transport must be ensured. Not all can avail themselves of public transport. The majority assume that the extended TT scheme will be transferred to the counties and that this will happen when the scheme is fully financed. The scheme concerns the group to which it has been included from the start: blind, partially sighted and wheelchair users. In this respect, the government is asked to draw up detailed guidelines for the scheme, and the government is asked to assess whether this should be done as a right for the persons concerned. In this case, it would also be natural to consider whether the scheme should be subject to Nav, which manages other schemes involving people with special needs. The railway operation is historic. The draft budget represents more than a doubling of the 2013 budget. The government proposes 32.2 billion. kr for railway purposes in the State budget for 2021, an increase of 20 pst. from the ageing budget in 2020. For planning and investment on the railway network, 17.3 billion has been proposed. kr, an increase of more than 30 pst. from the ageing budget in 2020. Even within this framework, it is not possible to find room for all good measures. New projects must be seen in conjunction with the overall volume of the railway investment portfolio. Starting projects adds bonds that often amount to several hundred million dollars and extend for many years in time. Unfortunately, there have been more overruns in the railway sector. It is important in such a situation to keep up a little and not start up too many new projects at once. However, there is room for rational progress in ongoing construction projects, including: new signalling system, increased capacity on Bergensbanen and intercity on Eastfoldbanen, Dovrebanen and Westfoldbanen. In addition, the Trønderbanen and the Meråkerbanen receive electric propulsion on important sections and 14 new hybrid trains that can run on diesel and electricity. The success of the Solberg government in the transport sector has not only been a question of appropriations. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are a team that dares to address the need for reform. The myth that things were better before, or that changes are dangerous, has not been very prominent in this team. The road reform with Nye Veier AS is a success that has inspired us to move on. We have begun to see good effects of the government's railway reform. The State pays less to the train operators than before in order to operate the passenger train service, while ensuring at least an equal or better offer for travellers. Of course, the special situation we have had and have had in 2020 has an impact on the results. The increased offer made by operators is influenced by an artificially low travel requirement. However, there is a need for more intervention to strengthen the operating space of Bane NOR and to make the undertaking responsible. The contractual strategy between the State and Bane NOR should be reviewed in order to ensure a truly larger scope for action by the undertaking. The session's room for action and more overall control will make more demands on the Bane NOR. It is important that Bane NOR has systems, procedures and competence to discharge such responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2390	In terms of transport policy, the year 2013 was a historic year. 2013 was the year the Progress Party went into government. The Progress Party was given to the Minister of Transport, and together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, we revolutionised Norwegian transport policy. To the delight of the drivers, a number of vehicle technical changes were immediately initiated, car charges were reduced, we made important changes for the mobile homes population, established an infrastructure fund, established New Roads, changed road standards and increased speed limits on the safe and secure four-field motorways, without the accidents having increased – they have actually fallen. There are an incredible number of important, positive changes to connect the country and build Norway. It is positive for business and anyone who commutes, travels and uses the road network. It ended that the drivers were going to be a dairy cow, and that they were only seen as an additional source of income for the state. For the first time in history, it ended that the drivers paid more in car charges than they received in terms of safer, safer and better roads. It ended that changing governments were passive and looked at the decline in both road and track growth years after year. We focused on expanding the main road network with safe, secure and forward-looking four-field highways with 110 km/h, instead of those kangaroo roads, which the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre obviously love to build, where you run for 90 km/h. It is official 90 km/h, but the speed varies from 40 to perhaps well over 90 km/h, precisely because when it finally becomes possible to pass by, there is a lack of gas, unfortunately, and to crash the brakes to get back into the queue, behind the German dwelling car or tractor to Bengt Fasteraune. It's definitely not the future, and it's definitely not the way to build roads. Fortunately, I am very proud that today's government, in good cooperation with the Advancement Party, has largely put a stop to such roads. Now we build for the future, we build four fields. Then you get traffic flow, you connect regions, and it's just positive. We did not just increase road investment, we also raised rail investment. The minister was in on it earlier today. It is gratifying to see that the legacy of the Progress Party actually lives on in government, even after the Progress Party went out, and even after the Minister of Transport's name is not Dale anymore, but Hareide. Of course, the government's own budget was not as good as the Advance Party's budget, I must admit that. There was too little money set aside, and there was too little money set aside to cut the cost of the bomb, but after a few rounds of negotiations, where the Progress Party won by moving on to approx. 18 B.C.E. kr – which is otherwise very good historically – was the compromise we made with the government, overall very good on transportation. We in the Progress Party are particularly pleased that the massive investment in road construction for which we provided the basis is being continued. The fact that New Roads will continue to build is very positive. In the case of tolls, we've had a tough fight there. We've been fighting hard every year to cut the cost of the bomb. In the beginning, a crown was not used to reduce the toll load for the Norwegian people, it was not used to remove toll stations. The Directorate of Road also did not exempt the local population, nor did it grant temporary exemptions even when there were no bypasses, and there was also a cross-road bomb. All of that stuff we've cleaned up, and we've gradually increased from zero to 500 million. NOK 1 billion. DKK to SEK 1.4 billion. NOK 2 billion. NOK, and now in the last budget, we have passed 2 billion after the ejaculation. kr. I guess that's 2.3 billion. NOK which is now used in 2021 to cut the cost of the bombs. It's incredibly joyous, and it's incredibly delicious to see today's government follow up on the agreement on tolls in the Granavolden platform, follow up the toll settlement, and continue that there should not be a crossroads bomb, and that we should also cut the bomb costs in general for most people. It's also nice to see that railway development is going pretty well again. We were quite provoked and shocked, for example. The dovre course was stopped earlier in the spring. It's well started again, there's a lot of money put on it. On the Vestfold track down to Skien and Telemark there is full pressure. There's a lot of happy stuff here. In the case of the wedding program, we have to say that we are not quite satisfied. A majority in Stortinget has adopted an NTP with a freight package also, where it was to be used 300 million. to repair bad county roads and bridges – bottlenecks – in order to take 60 tonnes of vehicle combinations. It is substantially underfunded. Unfortunately, only 50 million have been allocated. kr for the first three years, it was going to be 150 million. kr. But the most important thing there now is that we have had an impact on something called the commitment authorisation. That is, money that is not used this year can be transferred to next year, and that is positive. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2418	I'm going to say the same thing as some Progress Party representatives have said: this is a happy day. But I'm going to do it with a slightly different angle than the representatives of the Progress Party: finally, we're going to adopt a continuation of Rogfast's development. As the rapporteur, I must say thank you for the cooperation in this matter, for there is now almost an overall committee that will resume work on the tunnel once the Progress Party has signed up. There are great expectations for this work in Rogaland, first of all from the contractors, who have rustled for this, and now stand spinning in the single and need work. In the next round there are expectations from people living in the county, but I also want to bring the people of the West County, people who are going to use this underwater tunnel, who are going to take us faster from north to south in the county, and who, together with Hordfast, will significantly lower the driving time between Stavanger and Bergen. This is a road improvement that will also increase the value creation across the West, to the joy of the nation. Together with these Hordfast and other ferries-free fjord cruises further north in the West, it is hoped that – I have expectations – there will be more money to distribute to the rest of the country gradually. This project is the first in a series that will appear as a variant of the West’s intercity expansion. As the zero-emission vehicle comes in, this project will actually help us to cope with our climate obligations through the 40-year life-cycle calculation. With current traffic and future calculated daily traffic, there are no other alternatives given that the Rennfast tunnels are not dimensioned for this traffic. The alternative then is to build a new access through a new tunnel in order to obtain the traffic resolution according to the tunnel regulations. The rate of climb will also lead to a very long and expensive tunnel, and the ferry would still go on the stretch over the Bokenfjord. Elfs are not relevant for the crossing, because there are partly open seas on the route. The only real alternative to Rogfast, which I have not heard that SV has mentioned, is actually to move the point of call on the south side of the fjord to the mainland. This would have led to a lower supply, while energy consumption had become enormously high. So this is a happy day for the West and Norway, and I'm not going to dampen the pleasure of showing that the guarantee of the loan withdrawal of 16 billion. until road development is guaranteed by the county. I would rather point out that the Swedish Road Administration has already invited the current contractors to meet on 9 January. So we just hope that the new contract philosophy in the project leads to Norwegian companies winning the tenders – at least most of them. The case also contains a small pass on Ryfast. This connection is open to traffic, and it was opened quite exactly one year ago. Tragically, however, toll collection was not started. It is a long story, where the State Road Service had problems with the Spanish supplier of roadside equipment, and then had to rediscover the offer. But this proposition isn't about it. It is the intention of the Storting to waive the requirement for economic and tariff evaluation in March 2021. There is no basis for evaluating when toll collection could best start in February 2021. But one maintains the intention to evaluate the economy of the project one year after the recovery is started.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2437	Good transport solutions are important to all of us, whether we live in the cities or in the districts. Transport links us more closely, and it's important for our activity and development. With this budget, the record rate of traffic continues, and this is not least important for North Norway. Well-functioning infrastructure is essential for regional development and to facilitate growth in business and for new jobs. The maintenance run on the road goes down, and we've tripled road investment in the north. This provides better and safer roads for people and for business. There has been a fantastic expansion of E6 on Helgeland – an extension I have followed closely and have been a driver for the almost eight years I have been on the Stortinget. In the autumn of 2013, we were able to reduce the toll, and E6 Helgeland is further expanded into a jewelry box. Now we can read about people who work in the Mo in Rana, live in the Lake of Mo, and commute between these cities. New road standard has made this possible, it was said in the interview. The development of E6 continues. Next year it is the section Svenningev Bru–Lien past Trofors that starts up. This benefits people and businesses locally, regionally and nationally, and Helgeland becomes a larger region of residence and work. We also prioritise the continuation of preparatory work for the project E8 Sørbotn-Laukslett, which is the gateway to Tromsø. At the same time, a preliminary agreement has been reached with Nye Veier to develop E6 Kvänang Mountain. The mountain crossing is the only way between Finnmark and the rest of Norway, and it is very closed in winter time, so a new road will help keep the wheels running and ensure that particularly important goods transport are made safe. Aviation is important for value creation throughout the country, but has a special function for large parts of District Norway. The government is concerned that residents and businesses throughout the country should have a good flight offer. In the state budget for 2021, 2.4 billion is proposed. kr for aviation purposes. Of this, about 2 billion. kr goes to the state purchase of air routes, which is an increase of 1.3 billion. kr compared to the 2020 budget. The increase is due to the development of infection and the market situation in the aviation sector. The purchase of air routes on several routes, including Stokmarknes-Bodø-Tromsø, shall be ensured until the market is more normalised. The government also proposes 15 million. kr for the purchase of the Evenes-Bodø flight route, which is important for business and residents of the two main cities of the Nordic region. In Northernland we have two important airport projects: new airport in Bodø and Hauan airport in Mo in Rana. These have been important projects for the Northland Right, and we have been listened to. The government is working well with progress in both projects, and I am particularly pleased that there is an investment decision for Hauan airport in the revised national budget 2021. The Air Safety Authority is proposed to allocate 255 million. NOK, an increase of approximately 9 million. kr from the 2020 budget. The increase is mainly linked to work in the drone sector but must also strengthen supervisory digitisation activities. Aviation shall also reduce its emissions. The Norwegian Short Path Network is suitable for testing low and zero emission solutions for aeroplanes. We believe that the charging system is an important tool for facilitating a transition, as technology becomes more mature. The cyst is important to us who live and work along the coast. I am particularly pleased that the Minister for Transport has negotiated a new agreement with Hurtigruten, so that in the first quarter of 2021 we will again have calls in all ports. The coast shall then sail with five ships between Bergen and Kirkenes. For businesses and us living along the coast, it was unsustainable that the offer was reduced as much as it was. I also noticed that, despite promises and suggestions here in Stortinget, the Center Party did not grant one extra crown to Hurtigruten in its alternative budget. The budget also proposes a further 2.7 billion. kr for coastal use in 2021. Boats and ships are getting bigger and bigger. It is important to ensure a good alternative to goods on the road. Therefore, for coastal purposes, millions are important for the repair of fairways and entrances.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2461	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2466	In 1990 we could read the following in the Evening Post: This is a route that should have been fully developed two decades ago. It was about the Eastfold Railway. 1990 is the year I was born. If possible, double tracks through Eastfold now seem even more distant than it did in the mid-1990s. Double tracks through Eastfold have passed the point where we can start calling it a farce. I understand those who lose confidence in processes, decisions and politicians when we see how long it takes, and we see where this ends. When we didn't think it could get worse, we were wrong. Time and again, the Council of State, by state council, has disappointed us. In the state budget for 2020, we could read that it was not appropriate to implement the project in its current form. The surprise we got in the state budget for 2021 was that the door was set on fire for a new KVU. A new KVU starts all over again, we didn't think what we were reading. Fortunately, the Railway Directorate does not recommend a new KVU, and in the setting, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV agree on a note where we stress that ‘work on double-track development on the Eastfold route must continue and that a new KVU will lead to unnecessary delays in development’. I wonder why not the government parties are in that comment, this should be something that the whole committee could have put together. Then I think it's time for the government councils and government parties to clarify the ambitions they have for the Eastfold Railway. Are you ready to put the ball on the new KVU dead? At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that the costs of the Eastfold Railway are no higher than those of other railway extensions when comparing the price per km. People are insecure in Eastfold, they wonder how it's going to go with their house and their home. Private business is struggling because you don't know what the future will bring. The costs have increased, but look at the transport projects where it has not happened – this would not be the first project in history. It is fully understood in Eastfold that we need to go through the project, that we need to look constructively at solutions, but a new KVU is not the solution. Now it's time for the government to clarify what ambitions you have for Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2486	This is a happy day because today we are going to get the Rogfast project going again, after it has been necessary to slow down. It turned out that it was expected to be far more expensive than expected when the Stortinget decided on the project in 2017. The case rapporteur, Langholm Hansen, said very well about the importance of the project. I'm not going to repeat it. But the case today shows that the Advance Party had been able to take advantage of our proposal that we made in this room before the summer, the excavators could already have been running, and we could deal with this additional allocation from the state without delaying the progress of the project. If we had followed that procedure, we would not have lost six months. I am not going to spend more time ripping into it, but I have a small question that I hope the Council of State can resolve: if the delay in progress as a consequence of that proposal not being supported before the summer, leads to that it will not be completed by 2030, then the result will be that holiday offers need to be extended. As the Tau compound had to be extended due to longer construction time by Ryfast, the annual expenditures became sevenfold during the deferral period. I hope the Council of State can give a signal that such a cost will not be lightened on the drivers if the same thing happens now with Rogfast. Otherwise, I read in the notes that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are concerned about the tolls and I write that it “must be done to get the toll off.” That’s a little funny. None of the batches have spent money in their alternative budgets to reduce tolls, nor have they ever voted against a single toll project. What they voted against was when the Progress Party in the Government proposed a toll reform in 2015 that would reduce tolls. It was liberating to hear the representative Fasteraune, who said that the Senter party is not against tolls, but against tolls. It was good to get that clarification. In 2016, the Progress Party received a toll discount for projects in the districts. The working party was against this, but thanks to the fact that we got it through, many road projects around the country have received lower tolls. For Rogfast, the scheme we got in place meant $1.6 billion. kr in lower tolls. The Labour Party therefore voted in 2016 for a policy that would give drivers in Rogaland 1.6 billion. kr more in tolls – only because of Rogfast! Then I think they have the gift of rudeness when, in the form of a comment, they wave their index finger and criticize a high level of toll. Fortunately, the Workers' Party does not have decisive power in this Chamber. Today, Rogfast will be rebooted with new, fresh state resources. It's a nice pre-Christmas present for Rogaland. Now only the excavators must get started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2499	The President points out that the use of the words ‘greedy gift’ has previously been mentioned as an inappropriate parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2504	This is a very good day – when we have to knock through and get back on Rogfast. We're going to link Rogaland to a strong labour market, short journey time between Stavanger and Haugesund by 40 minutes. We're going to get the goods, the salmon, the goods and the industrial products out, and we're going to get people home faster. We're going to give travellers a simpler everyday life with a 24-hour road that doesn't close every time it blows more than a stiff bulge. It is also not to hide that this was an important matter to be clarified before the election. There is no doubt that some parties, such as the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens, have been major opponents, even though, according to the State Road Administration, Rogfast is more environmentally friendly than the ferry option. That is why I am very pleased that the government has always been clear, and that with today's decisions we are celebrating every doubt: of course, such a solid, socially profitable project as Rogfast is to be carried out. In Rogaland we have a very competent team that has just built the world's longest underwater tunnel, Ryfast, within the budget. And skilled, experienced Norwegian entrepreneurs and others are prepared. We're ready. I would like to thank the Transport Committee with its chairman and rapporteur. I would like to thank the competent people of the State Road Administration and the government. Not least Knut Arild Hareide deserves a big thank you. Here we have a minister who has really taken the job very seriously, who has gone through thoroughly, got costs down, set up with funds where needed, and improved the progress plan. Rogfast is the best Christmas present we could have. In 2021 we have to make sure that the project stays on track, that the progress is kept up, and not least we have to take the next step: it is further ferry-free further northwards. And then the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation must get the country the trasé elections for the new E39, so New Veier will start working further south towards Kristiansand. With that I would like to wish the Council of State and everyone who has been involved in getting to Rogfast, a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2519	This is a happy day – again. I'm not going to hide that I'm very pleased with the broad connection that underlies today's decision to continue the Rogfast project, but we must honestly say that we can't hold on like that anymore. Now it's time to rediscover the excavator, the diesel and the dynamite. That's enough cake and nice words. Now we need a path that is open all the time, all the day. It's going to be ten years before we get to it, and it's more than long enough. It has been a long way, and the last stop made the road even further, and in the opinion of the Progress Party it was an unnecessary long stop. Regardless of that, this is a big and complex project, so some problems can be difficult to avoid, and we're going to build the world's longest and deepest underwater tunnel. An increased management and cost framework has been established. It's a pleasure with an increased state share, but there's still an unacceptable amount of money that users have to pay. This is a project with a high socio-economic gain, and the benefit of the use of the project, and then we do not need to have a level of toll that leads to traffic rejection. For the Progress Party, today's ferry price will be guiding, and we're going to work for an increased state contribution in the years to come, to ensure this. Historically, the Progress Party lowers toll stations at approximately the same pace as the Workers Party and the Centre Party set them up, so it should be within reach. We're going to have to put that behind us now. Today, many entrepreneurs are enjoying themselves. This project will ensure increased activity in many industries and sectors. There will be a great demand for many services and many new jobs. Now I hope that Norwegian companies fight about the contracts and also cooperate on the knowledge and competence that we know about the industry. A finished Rogfast will mean a whole new era for Rogaland and the West. It is about building new living and working regions, strengthening clusters and strengthening each other's skills and special advantages. We literally throw boundaries and barriers at the sea. We cut the journey time between the Stavanger region and Haugalandand for 40 minutes. When Hordfast also comes with reduced travel time between Stavanger and Bergen, we build the West together, and Sunnhordland and Haugaland will be very attractive areas. It's just to rejoice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2536	I want to take a little bit of hold of the SV and the Workers' Party's claim that these parties on the right-hand side run ideologically. It's really quite amazing that a get criticism of solutions that provide a better offer at a lower price, provide increased diversity and better quality significantly cheaper. Then I think about the OPS criticism from the left. Now maybe the Right can defend OPS more than what I from the Advance Party should do, because that's really the Right Baby, one might say, and New Roads were the Advance Party baby. But there is no doubt that the OPS – that one has cooperated between the public and private about the projects we have had there, and the last thing we opened this summer – has been sensible. A save 1.5 billion. kr to build rv. 3/rev. 25-digit number It opened on 31 July of this year – 1.5 billion. kr in relation to what was originally in the plans of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. One got a better way. We were able to turn the speed up to 110 km/h. We fixed it up a little bit so that we could increase from 100 to 110 km/h. We have removed e.g. a roundabout and obtained a level-free crossing. So it's become a better way at a lower price, and it opened before the scheduled time. Trying to say that I'm riding ideological bargains by saving taxpayers for money and getting a better solution is amazing. If there's anyone who rides ideological bargains, it's just the left-hand side, because they have to counter competition at any cost. They would rather have a monopoly at any price, and they would have to have everything public at all costs, even though it would be more expensive, even if it would be worse, and even if taxpayers would have to pay more taxes. It's to ri ideological chefs, not to provide a better offer at a lower price. But there's an ideological difference here. We just have to realize that, but I can't yet understand that everything should be public, and that it should be so positive. I don't think so. Nävra was in on SV's horror scenario: a FrP-steered Oslo. It's a dream scenario for us in the Progress Party. It would have been amazing. It had become a little bit of life again in this city. There had been people in the streets. It had become a little bit of activity, and one had got combined cars, bicycles and times, everything collectively – all of it. We think about the whole thing, while the left side unfortunately has to chase away all the cars, and then they chase away the trade. A few store deaths, and it closes early, whether it's nightclubs, or what it is. Had one got a FrP community in Oslo, there had been life in this red, dead city. It would have been amazing. In the case of two- and three-fields, I particularly encourage the Center Party, I've given up Arne Nävra, I think he'll always be for two- and three-fields, but I encourage the Center Party and Bengt Fasterøne to drink a little less coffee and eat a little less cake when they're on the road openings, and talk to Haehre, Vegelke, Skanska, AF. All the guys who build the road 24 hours a day will confirm that the two/three-field is a bad solution. It's much better and more forward-looking to build four-fields, narrow four-fields, that we've now adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2549	Postal services are an important part of the infrastructure that contributes to the construction and business life of the whole country. At the same time, technological developments mean that more and more communication takes place digitally. The overarching objective is for users across the country to have access to good and forward-looking postal services and an equivalent supply of universal postal services at affordable prices through the efficient use of society's resources. The AS entry keeps showing that they are being followed by social changes. This year it is 20 years since we received mail from the store, and no one wants to return to post office with a very limited opening time. The post offers its customers innovative product, such as sign-free parcel delivery and parcel box, and in its 373rd year of life Posten AS took a strong second place during the year's formation of Norway's most innovative business. Last year, the post went to the top of this union. In addition, the Post has a strong climate focus in its work. The Ministry of Transport’s tool in the field of postal services includes regulation and the purchase of Ulyan postal and banking services. Letter volume has been reduced by about 65 pst. since 1999 and a further decrease of close to 60 pst. expected between 2018 and 2025. In 2019, the Storting took decisions on changes to the Postal Act – the number of transfer days – and the changes became effective from 1 July 2020, which resulted in post-transmission every other day. The 2021 budget proposes to grant 740.2 million. NOK for the purchase of postal services. This will ensure in 2021 that everyone gets mail and newspapers delivered every other day. Expenditure on the purchase of pregnant services is expected to increase significantly over the years to come. If the Post is to keep post-allocation to mail boxes every other day, Posten AS has assessed that the compensation requirement could be more than 1 billion. kr in a few years. The question is whether it can be defined as an effective and proper use of society’s resources. Now, it looks like, based on the response of the representative Mossleth in the replication, the Center Party is also taking over the increased degree of digitization and what it entails. We need to understand the time we live in, and find solutions that have legitimacy for using the resources of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2562	I think I am the first representative from the Oslo bench in the debate so far, and it is a glimmer from Oslo in the Chamber when this important debate is going on. But there's also transportation in Oslo, and there's a lot of people here. We heard a funny article from Johnsen, which described the situation in Oslo. Clearly, one thing is that there are people in the streets, but it is also that the Progress Party is probably 5 pst. Now. I believe that both the Red Party and the Environment Party are well over in isolation in Oslo. In any case, SV does, so I think the people of Oslo are quite satisfied with the policy that has been taking place here over the last few years. The reason why I have subscribed to this matter is that we have promoted a loose proposal that is under consideration today, and that I cannot see any reason why we should not be able to obtain broad support. These are immediate measures to reduce noise along Trondheimswegen. It's about the stretch that goes from Sinsen to Grorud. On 3 December, a public meeting was held for the people of the Groruddalen. There are 140,000 people living there, and there was a good audience at the public meeting, who really wanted national attention on that road. Some of the routes along that road — especially on the Lateløkka, where there are 2,500 people — are the most noisy routes throughout the country. As I said, 2 500 people live there, and along this whole stretch, there's a lot of thousands of people. There are families with children, there are areas that are vulnerable to living conditions, and immediate measures are needed to ensure their existence without health-threatening noise. There are measures that are so simple that windows should be replaced in the blocks where they live, that speed limits can be reduced, which is the most effective measure to reduce noise on that route, that noise protection is provided where it is missing, where the population is below the road, and that a test project with a collective field can be put in place to reduce traffic loads on that road again. These are simple measures that can be implemented in the short term, which provide immediate noise reduction, and which do not cost much money when compared to the other projects discussed in this case. Forget about Fossum diagonals and other measures that take 10–15–20 years to be realised, and now implement these measures to ensure that the population of the Grorud Valley, who has waited long enough, can see that national politicians in this room are also concerned about action for them, in order to ensure a better daily life for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2573	When one hears the red-green parties in the Storting today try to outbid the civil side – all the party on the bourgeois side, I will add – in the use of money in the transport budget, it is almost comical to witness. The reality is that all these parties would have been empty for money a long time ago if they had had their hands on the wheel of the transport policy in the last few years. They have opposed everything that has raised money for the sector: the reorganization of the Post, which has released money that we can spend on better services instead the establishment of New Roads, which they would later have to reverse at the last collapse option, and which save billions of dollars in billiards by building longer and more holistically than before; toll reform, which makes tolls go to road construction and not to expensive administrations The rail reform, which not only increases competition and savings, but also helps finance hundreds of train trips every day into and out of Oslo S The reorganization of the State Road Service, which enables them to compete with New Roads, save more money and invest better in the sector the changes in the Coastal Works, which also modernise them as a transport unit; clearer indications for Avinor, which means that one is left with more for each aerodrome an expandr, and can also use the ability to strengthen the flight supply long-term funding that provides multiannual commitments and greater opportunities to invest in larger projects in the long term the reform of the national transport plan, which increases competition in the sector and brings back more for the money; One thing is that they would have been empty for money if they had had hands on the wheel, they're also completely exhausted for ideas about how to operate the transport infrastructure in the future in this country. Today's debate is characterized by: great words, great views, no ability to deliver. The maintenance crew went up for three decades while the crew had hands on the steering wheel. Now it is reduced for eight consecutive years. For one has failed to stand in tough debates, made repriorities, not let the sector control itself, but steered it instead. That's what separates civic transport policy from socialist, as well as the ability to actually spend money so that we build the country closer together and with it increase the value creation in private business. This debate illustrates the whole basis for the bourgeois side actually to rule the country safely and to build our country stronger.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2610	My grandfather laughed well when he heard that there was going to be a bridge over Luksund from Tysnes. I remember. And then we've experienced the triangle relationship that connects Bømlo and Stord. Then came Rennfast, and we had to put down Skudenesferja, but a new world opened up. Then Ryfast came, and then it starts to look like something, where one connects the north and the south and the inner part of Rogaland together. Then came the T-connection. All this has happened, fortunately, with a considerable degree of effort from the Christian People's Party and a cross-political consensus. That's what results are. Today it's Rogfast. I've been in politics for 40 years, and I've been in on several of these openings, but today it's probably the biggest thing I'm going to experience in my adult youth politically. Very stony! We remember the Western Council. We agreed, Rogaland and Hordaland, to fight together for a holiday-free western country. It was a fantastic effort on the part of the county council and the municipalities. Rogfast is a dream that is now being fulfilled — with great social benefits, security and significant value creation, which connects north and south in Rogaland in a completely new way. The mountains, Haugaland and South Rogaland are made up of over a million people who now have a new life. I want to thank the Hareide Council, which has the power to clean this up with its crew in the road and department. There's a lot of respect for it, and even if we're party traps, I'll let myself give the special rose. So now, people, the fight is more for us politically in Rogaland – E134. I am aware that we are then pointing to the NTP situation, but here it is about connecting our beautiful ports, Karmsund port, new industrial areas, Gismarvik. I just mention it. We have some of the country's heaviest businesses – Aker, Aibel, Gasnor, Hydro – and we have Kårstø, the Stavanger environment. All of this is now going to get a whole new everyday life. Do I have other things on the agenda? Yes, I just want to mention that we are fighting hard for Haugesund Airport. We are aware that ownership requires a special model to solve it, but this is absolutely necessary now to move on. I mentioned E134. It will have a completely new role now when Rogfast arrives, and it must be prepared in good time. This applies not only to accessibility but also to value creation, security and the environment, not least for the future. I also allow myself to mention other wishes that are high on the list in Rogaland, and that concerns rv. 13 and race protection. With that I take Rogfast with me as a national Christmas presang.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2628	Unfortunately, from the point of view of Eastfold, it was not that much to enjoy in the draft budget for the transport sector. Progress in the rail double-track southwards towards Fredrikstad has been shot into the blue, as pointed out by Mr Björnebeck-Waaagen. When Kjell Borgen made a message about upgrading the railway – I think it was in 1987 – the perspective was that the double track to Halden should be finished before the turn of the century, that is, what we have behind us, not what we have in front of us. And when I was rapporteur in Fredrikstad, we explained the trajectory for double tracks through the city. It's almost 25 years ago, and people who had a house in Grønli, where the new station will be, came up to the office and asked me if it was necessary to paint the house for the summer. It was in 1997. They have probably had to paint both once and twice before they have to move. Unfortunately, there was nothing to fix the fairway to Borg Hafen, a project that was actually committed at the beginning of this century. Then we could hope that the Progress Party had a look for Eastfold in its demands into the budget negotiations, but no. 18 B.C.E. kr they got to their heart issues, nothing for the planning of the double track on the Eastfold track, but other tracks. Money for eight kilometers of asphalt on the E6 between Jonstein and Halmstad was all their priority for Eastfold. In its draft budget, the Labour Party has both funds for further planning of double tracks and 20 million. kr to start the dredging project in Borg Hafen. This is a project that has been thoroughly explored for many years. There is now agreement on a plan, approved by the environmental authorities, and the project is ready for launch. And it's necessary to start next year. Because they have been waiting for this project, they have failed to operate so-called maintenance dredging, and the result is that the port run is growing again. It's at the end of Norway's longest river, so there's a lot coming down with the water and lying down at the exit. The socio-economic analysis shows that the project will generate positive effects on the availability and safety of ships entering and leaving ports, as the Minister for Transport writes to me in an answer to a written question. That is why I trust that the Minister for Transport in the revised national budget will find room for the necessary resources, so that it can start up to the harvest, and that he will show the same power of action there as we hear in this debate he has shown in the case of Ryfast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2643	In the case of Rogfast, this is not a day of pleasure for the undersigned. I think most people in this room are aware of that. This is a project that clearly comes under the theme that I presented in my main post: thinking new, thinking forward – not old-fashioned, not museum, not thinking records and not thinking car and tunnel. There have been many impatient politicians who seem to have been horrendous. I think the majority, these traditional parts of growth, these traditional sections of motorways, should have thought even more about it. What is this project? A terrible environmental project, yes, but think about the use of money in this. We're talking about 25 billion. kr, which is used for something against which the Freight Car Association is opposed, for which the environmental movement and all environmental parties are opposed. What could we use 25 billion? kr on narrow western roads? I've been to various conferences – Fjordvegen, racial protection. It's been crocodile tears because there's not enough money coming. And then the assembly here is voting for such a giant sluice. I don't get it. I put great questions on estimated travel time, on socio-economic benefits, and not least on climate calculations. It's completely at the limit of the unreasonable, what's come out of climate calculations. I got an answer from the government council to a question through the committee. Here you've assumed fossil ferries are going to go to about forever, while electric cars are coming in. What kind of serious calculation is this? There's a slight admission of it in the answer from the Council of State. He says there's going to be some zero-emission ferries, it's going to be net negative – so it's going to be emissions. All right. The common housing and labour market is the answer every time. If only it had been like that. Would a commuter really use this with a toll price of about 800 kroner back and forth? Will over an hour's journey between the large centres of housing and jobs really give this? No, says Asplan Viak, they're very doubtful about that. Mort research says the same thing. That's not true, it's not going to be a common housing and labour market. So what is the argument? I am genuinely concerned about the decision-making basis in this case. It might be that you're going to be left with a bit of a damp feeling when it's been a few years and historical judgment is being passed on this project. And it may well happen that the Council of State also has some hereditary sin to deal with in this, after two councillors before him.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2660	It was very nice that I now got to come after the representative Nävra, because the most profitable expansion projects in Norway are in the West. It's not oil fields I'm talking about here, it's our road projects. Today, Stortinget gave a clear signal about moving on with Rogfast on the E39, and it is great. I'll try to answer some of the Nävra's questions. This spring we will also deal with NTP, and there Hordfast between Sunnhordland and Bergen will have a decision. Together with Rogfast, this will be one of the most profitable projects Norway can invest in. The projects will create a coherent construction and labour market between Bergen and Stavanger, bringing together a population of 1 million people and 500 000 jobs. The industry is promoting these E39 projects as the most important ones for value creation and employment in the West. It will give companies competitiveness in demanding conversion times and ensure commuter distances for Westerners could only dream about before. Unfortunately, we don't have railway along the West, so these projects are our intercity solution. Therefore, it should not be relevant for any party to move the money from these important projects to other routes. I'm glad that LO and NHO think it's important to start with these projects, which have high net benefits and low risk. There are several profitable projects both southwest and northwest of E39, but the most profitable project goes from Bergen to Stord. The first part of the stretch, from Bergen to Os, is already under construction and completed in a year's time. Yes, there will be tolls, but the car list and the goods transport pay today on the ferry, and it is this payment that is to be passed on as tolls. Once the project has been paid down, it will be free – as opposed to the holiday payment forever. The late Professor Frank Aarebrot described the western villages as white pearls on a string – pearls that are now geographically close, but where the fjords create distances that ferries will never be able to lift. It'll leave the E39 free of charge. Today it takes 4 hours and 30 minutes to run between Bergen and Stavanger. With the ferry-free E39 it will take about two hours. So I'm going to give SV right on one thing: energy-efficient solutions will be necessary if you're going to manage to electrify our transport sector. Energy is also a resource that we need to manage in the best possible way. Not only does the use of time go down, but also the use of energy that will be based on electric propulsion of running gear will go down – not to mention air transport between the two major western villages, which will be eliminated. This will be a game changer and will be so good news for SV as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2677	So there's no sign of bet on the Eastfold society from the government in this setting. The majority are unable to grant anything to the port of Borg. They cannot even take part in a reasonable observation on the east-line passenger and freight transport. No bombs disappear in Eastfold. So, after the Progress Party had Norway's fourth most senior finance minister since 1884, with 2,289 days, which is going to be something like 54,936 hours, the Progress Party was unable to fulfill its toll commitments. When we also see that the Progress Party has had the Minister of Transport for 2,289 days, which is also 54,936 hours, the matter becomes quite clear. The fracture of the lift is clear. The Progress Party has thus carried out one of the greatest post-war political spin-offs. Not only did they promise that all the trees would go away, only they would go to government; neither would new ones. The result after the Progress Party has had the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport for over 100 000 hours combined, was record toll collection and an increase in toll stations from 170 in 2013 to 334 in 2019. It is the phase of policy – an increase in toll stations on formidable 96 pst., signed the Progress Party. And it won't stop there. When the Progress Party understood that the promise to remove the toll did not go, they sold in a toll deduction scheme such as the big Progress Party win. Now the Progress Party has stopped talking about it too, understandably enough, because it didn't happen either. The Progress Party is now trying to whitewash itself by saying that they have left the government, or the prison, which they describe the government responsibility as, but they are still responsible for the budgets under which the country is to be administered. They are the faithful support wheels of the right-hand government. It's not much to get to people most that they have to pay a little less in tolls, when the election guarantee to the Progress Party was that the bombs should go away, without reservation. But even with over 100,000 hours in two Council offices, the Advance Party did not deliver on its promises. They took the time to build more toll projects. It was not promised for Eastfold. There were no big bets. Rather, these are delays and delays. Representatives of both the Progress Party and the Right in Eastfold said that they would complete the Halden railway two years faster than planned. I do not see a single excavator in the process of creating a new railway between Fredrikstad and Halden. On the contrary, it is rather full stop, and the government has created great uncertainty about the entire project. That's what we're left with. Thus, the years of right-wing rule and the winging behaviour of the Advance Party have not given Eastfold any impetus to travel. The bombs are over, the railway expansion is on hold. The Advance Party and the Right, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, did not become a good deal for the Eastern Society. It wasn't as promised. We can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2694	I can understand the disappointment in Eastfold that progress on the railway was not the way we all wanted to be. It was like this that the Stortinget, through the work one did in 2017, was very clear that one wanted to build the railway, and talk to us from the Railway Directorate and Bane NOR, said that this distance would cost 12 billion. kr. Then, not many months after the NTP was adopted, until the new numbers arrived in 2020. Then it wasn't 12 billion. kr, but we saw that the number would go up against over 40 billion. kr. That's the background of the problem. But we've chosen, just through the bet of time, an increase of 6 billion. kr on the railway – from 26 brd. kr to over 32 br. kr – a historical investment. We also build railways – extra in Østfold on the areas where we are going. But it's clear we have to be honest that when we come with NTP, we say something about our ambitions for the railway operation, and I think that's also true. So to the problem that the representative Myrli raised with Boreal. It is important that we think about safety first and foremost, naturally, but also about how we should come back, inform and take it with us in such a situation. I would just like to comment briefly by saying that when I attended a meeting with the Maritime Directorate, it was not to make an assessment related to safety, but about what alternative job we had to do if the boats would be lying down for a long time to berth. Then there was a situation we had to assess. I think we should take with us the experience of this episode of how both information work, security, preparedness and health will be carried out in the future. I'm glad the right representatives from Rogaland, but I also hope the rest of the country shares it happily, because it's important that we now get back on track with Rogfast. What's also important is that we haven't changed the toll scheme. The extra bill is the state that's in charge. But this is a very good project. The representative, Mr Stokkebø, told us at the previous round, among other things. what we should have done if we hadn't done this. The race fast was built 30 years ago, and the alternative would have our new tunnels and much better use. So not doing anything here, I also want to say to the representative Nävra, is no alternative in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2707	First of all, I want to explain a little bit about voting. The centre party will vote in favour of the proposal No. 17-19, going on the construction of the City Ship Tunnel. The center party's in $60 million. NOK 2021, so we see it as a matter of course that it is now going to start at the City Ship Tunnel. Since proposal No 28 came in, I would like to mention that in the case of timber transport, forest roads and timber brands, the Senter party has such measures, plus some planting and carbon bonding, within 340 million. kr, so we've covered that very well in our alternative budget. Furthermore, I would like to address a factual error, which is not entirely correct as it is repeated several times. The central party has not reduced the subsidy to urban growth agreements in the draft government budget for the following year. I don't know how many times I'm going to have to repeat this in relation to how many times we've been charged for it, but we haven't reduced the grant to urban growth agreements. Oslo has also been specifically mentioned. The truth is, it's the Center Party cutters to Oslo, is 130 million. kr through the major cities, but overall Oslo gets 356 million. kr more through the central party's budget than the government's budget. It's extra money for well-being and investment. Then I want to get to grips with something that the representative Ebbesen said. She said we had not deposited money for several sailings for the Hurtigruten. Now the Center Party believes that the Hurtigruten could have sailed more for the money they already received, but we were not strangers so they could get more, and in total in enhanced and extended compensation measures in connection with the Korona, the Center Party has set aside 16.7 billion. kr in your budget, so we have money in there. We also have a lot in a coastal package.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2718	As many have said before me here from the pulpit today: this is a happy day. It's been almost a year and a half since the Minister of Transport of the Progress Party, Jon Georg Dale, chose to put Rogfast on hold, and finally we're going to get Rogfast back on track again. I have to be honest to say that I'm proud that I'm going to be involved in making this historically important decision here today. It's not one day too early, because this is a project that's already started. It has until now been used approx. 1 billion. DKr, e.g. in two supply tunnels, and almost the same amount is required in tolls. As a county politician in Rogaland, I could spend a lot of time talking about the importance of Rogfast for Rogaland, about how the project will link the northern and southern states closer together, and how Haugaland and the North-Jearth will become a common housing and labour market. These are important arguments for why Rogfast should be built. But Rogfast is a very important project both for the West and for Norway, because Rogfast is a socio-economically profitable project that will bind Rogaland and the West – and I mean not only West, but the whole West – closer together. The journey time between Bergen and Stavanger will be reduced by approx. Forty minutes, which means a lot to commuters, but especially for all the business traffic that goes along our coast, which contributes to countless jobs and billions of income. In addition, Rogfast will link the South and East countries closer to the West. In this way, this is a project that produces regional and national ring-effects. Another important reason why it is urgent to start building Rogfast and get the next part of the project publicized is that businesses across the country are screaming for new jobs to keep people working. It is particularly important now that the Corona crisis has led to many lay-offs and unemployed. Rogfast will only provide employment for 5 000 to 6 000 annual works over a period of 10 years. It is therefore a very important employment project for a demanding time. With today's important decision here on Stortinget, everything will be ready to announce the White Sea contract as early as January, and then it will be possible that we will see the excavators in turn already until the fall. Finally, I would like to warmly welcome the Minister for Transport to Rogaland to launch the first dynamite ointment on the tunnels to White Island. And at the same time, I would remind him that he has a certain self-interest in keeping a high pace in this matter, because if the start is too late in the fall, there is a great risk that there is another Minister of Transport who gets that credit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2729	In 2018, the county road network was estimated to be between 59 billion. kr and 80 br. kr, and the lag increases, cf. What the representative Dale said instead. It is increasing and the Centre Party has repeatedly proposed a separate maintenance programme for the county road network. Unfortunately, the right-wing parties and the Progress Party have voted in favour of this in the Stortinget. The centre party proposes an increase in the framework grant to the county council, where 1,5 billion. kr until next year is intended to increase maintenance on county roads. In addition, we've allocated 600 million. kr to new national road investment. One of those sections is Turtnes-Øye, which has also been paid by the Progress Party, following negotiations with the government. We've added 120 million. kr. They've added 60 million. kr. What is interesting is that the road section should be built according to the electoral model and utilize the existing road body. It's on the E16, that's a European road, and it's not going to be a four-field highway, which I think makes sense between Turtnes and Eye. Others may think it's a bad solution, but they've now allocated money to it in next year's budget. Many trailers carrying goods on Norwegian roads pose a risk to road safety, lead to heavy road wear and increased climate emissions. Proposals were made in Stortinget for a digital transport register for all international freight traffic, combined transport and cabotage services in Norway. In addition, the Centre Party has decided to allocate 40 million. kr more than the government of roadside inspections to ensure safe roads. There has been a lot of talk about rail, and I would like to point out that in comments on this year's budget, the Central Party has clarified the importance of double-track construction on both the Eastfold Railway, the Dovreban and the Westfold Railway. It is also important to get started well with the Ringerix track. It's quite clear in that note that you don't want to lower that level of ambition further. In addition to the fact that we have not reduced the urban growth agreements, I am pleased that the representative Myrli says it must be an ambition for several cities to join. We have chosen to write as part of our remarks that it must be an ambition that urban growth agreements should apply to more than just the major urban areas. I think there might be a consensus on that in any red-green cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2748	I was very positive in my previous post, so I might be a little bit more nuanced now. First to the government: it seemed as if it had been at home alone-party, where someone had forgotten that the road is also important, because there was a full crash brake when the state budget was presented. There was a decrease in relation to what was in the state budget for 2020. But here the Progress Party made sure to take responsibility, made sure to increase the appropriations. So it was 1 billion. kr more to roads, and that's very good. We need to, we've heard that in the debate here today as well. It's also a little special to listen to representatives from the Central Party, who stand on this pulpit and say that there's almost no money in this state budget for 2021. I dare remind you that in 2013 the total budget for transportation was 35,7 billion. kr. So now we're up to 83 billion. NOK 2021. It's okay that it's been price rise since 2013, but I don't think it's been over 40 billion. kr, to say it like that, in seven years. In addition, the entry is only for New Roads of 5.8 billion. kr in 2021, almost as much as all the red-green government managed to deliver in its last budget in 2013. That was 7.9 billion. kr. Now it's almost 5.9 billion. kr only to New Roads. So it shows that there have been completely different ambitions on the road and on the rails when the Progress Party has been sitting in the Ministry of Transport, than it was under the Red-Greens. So it's almost a bit polite to listen to the debate today when they're so broad, and then you look at the alternative budgets that lie here. As the representative, Dale, made a very good point and showed: they love the reform of spending money, but they are very opposed to the reform now and will finally return to the past. They want to use the money. What's good is that when you take a good grip, you get more money for what you want to spend on, we get more money. New Veier is an excellent example of that. The billions that otherwise would never have come, now come in full monn, and they're actually used to build a new road. That's funny. I listened to the representative Nävra, who said he had been to conferences and heard that money was needed. Yeah, then you can't cut $3.5 billion. kr on the road. This does not help to cut only on the four-field motorway. Then you cut on common roads around the districts as well. That's not going to happen to the Progress Party. Then I have to say to the Council of State: the letter sent to Stord Airport today in connection with the fact that you do not want to give money, I am not quite satisfied with the fact that the committee has been very clear today, you also want to look at Oslo-Stord. This is good – this is where more money comes from. It's because there are people who make sure that those who have been at home alone-party, actually come with more money when we sit together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2767	This budget is based on the government's strategy for Norway's way out of the crisis, which is to create more and include more, while responding to the long-term challenges it faces. We're going to stimulate change, growth and increased activity, and we're going to get people back to work, help businesses get back on track all over the country, and create more jobs in private business. There's a lot of traffic here. It's very central. The government prioritizes the development and maintenance of projects throughout the country with a record transport budget of about 83 billion. NOK 2021. In Trøndelag, we are building continuous E6 now – it's the main artery through Trøndelag. Projects on E39 and on Rv. 706, E14 is getting stronger, and the county roadmap is increasing. With 600 million. kr to the phase new trainset of the Trunder Railway, and electrification is finally started. Never before has there been more construction machinery on the roads or more asphalting in our region. We also carry out more simplifications and improvements in the transport sector, so that we get more road, rail and other public transport for tax money. To the criticism which, at least, I have heard from part of the opposition during the debate today, about the waste of taxpayers' money, and, in particular, about the Labour Party's plans to get more out of the payroll, I would like to comment, as also the representative Hoksrud did, that the transport budget is actually about double since the red-greens crashed the last country. The establishment of New Roads has been a success. New roads plan to build roads more efficiently, more reasonably and in a shorter time. The Labour Party was against this establishment. It is a little unclear whether they have decided whether or not to reverse this reform, but they are using the space for action provided by the reform in their own alternative budget. So the question is, can the Workers' Party guarantee that the New Veier AS reform will not be reversed? For the New Roads and Public Sector Reform option, either increased taxes, road and rail depriorities or welfare measures in schools, kindergartens and health. Should the Workers' Party and the rest of the left-hand side scraps New Roads, the voters deserve to know where to get the money. We cannot both scrap important reforms and balance the budgets with the profits. It's not serious. Now, can we hear from the Workers' Party how much tax is going to be increased over the 7 billion? kr that has been suggested to pay for the reversal of the absolutely necessary reforms?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2781	To start a bit with the history writing: one can now get the impression that road construction and railway construction were something you invented in this country in 2014. But it's like the two national transport plans that the previous government put forward had a higher percentage growth than the transport plans that this government has put forward. I also note that when a person talks about the growth of investment, a happy jump is that in Stoltenberg's last budget there was a growth in rail investment of over 60 pst. That crop takes an honor for itself and does not mention that it is linked to the previous government. Billions of people covering exceedances brag one as a bet. The position is self-satisfied and saturated. I think the people who live along rv. 13, which does not see any asphalt machines, which do not see any racial protection, which do not see anything happening, and those who live along the E134, the business that uses Haukelifjell, who see nothing but that a team at the same tunnels while a new one – but what happens, is that a team they know is not so happy that the multiple numbers are so self-satisfied and saturated. For promises and self-destructs, people can't run on either the Haugaland or the Ryfylke. There is only one asphalt that can run on. Then it is also worth remembering that every year after the Progress Party joined, there is a new Norwegian record in tolls. When you hear this debate, you can get the impression that someone has cut the toll in Norway, but it doesn't have one. It has been a formidable growth in tolls since the Progress Party came into power. And one has seen a Norwegian record year after year. When it comes to Rogfast, there's reason to be happy today, but it's been a lot of stuff. In 2016, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Bent Höie were out and promised to attend the project. In 2016, a customer would have a project that had planned to start construction in 2014. But the excavators were supposed to be in place in 2017. There came a new Minister of Transport from the Progress Party who stopped the project, and then the Progress Party on Stortinget complains that they didn't get to start the project again, which their own government council had stopped. But luckily now we're on the track, and now I hope that Hareide makes sure that there's seriousness and not just big words in Rogfast's work. Rogfast is an important project. I heard the representative Nävra was so worried about Rogfast. I think Rogfast is going to work and become just as amazing as Ryfast is, as Rennfast is, as the T-connection is, as this hole where we come out to Stord, is. I think Rogfast is going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2794	It's fascinating to hear the Speakers of the Advancement Party. Former Minister of Transport, Jon Georg Dale, spoke about the maintenance crew. Yeah, on the highway it goes down, that's good. But on the railway, it's increasing dramatically. With the budget adopted today, the maintenance allowance will increase by 1.3 billion from 1 January to 31 December next year. kr. We'll never hear the Progress Party talk about that. The party of progress is only half telling the truth. Why doesn't the Progress Party talk about what's going on in the taxi industry? Why doesn't the Progress Party talk about the cleaners on the railway, who have fallen in wages? We never hear anything about it. The progress party is coming up – has stood here today and talked so fast that poor referees who are going to try to bring it with them – what they have done in the budget agreement. They boast of planning resources for intercity development on the Westfold Railway. That's good. But they don't say that in their alternative budget they proposed 500 million. kr i cut to Østfoldbanen and Follobanen. No one has said anything about it. No one has said that they proposed 700 million in their alternative budget. kr i cut to Vosebanen. A total of $1.7 billion. kr proposed that the Party should cut to the railway. No one has said that. The Progress Party proposed 800 million in its alternative budget. kr i cut to Statens vägvesen. No one has said anything about it. And 75 million. to national tourist roads – no one has said anything about it. Even at Trygg Trafikk, the Progress Party proposed cut. No one says anything about it. One hundred million. kr to the urban areas they proposed to cut. There is no one who mentions in the debate. This reminds me of him who had been to the bingo and came home and boasted of how much he had won. It doesn't help if you've won a kilo of coffee and a bacon if you've played for thousands of dollars. It has something to do with how much you bet, when you're going to say how much you've won. Both income and expenses, plus and minus, have to come with when you shoot what you've been given. It's not useful to tell half the truth. So to the Hurtigruten, or more precisely the Kystruten. Now we have to learn to say that, because from 1 January we get two operators. Now we are soon where the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV earlier this fall suggested that we should be. We proposed six ships throughout the Bergen–Kirkenes route. So now it's going to be five ships. But then the majority writes: «at an additional cost of 14.1 million. And then we're adding $15 million. kr in the budget agreement. So does that mean that there's money in there for a month's operation of the high-speed bus from 1 January? We almost have to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2803	It is obvious that the representative Sverre Myrli has read back in time on everything but his own budget proposals, when the maintenance run on the railway increases as much as he is now criticising the current government. Of course, we would have liked to come further, and we might have done that if we had a hand on the wheel, but that's where we got because we prioritised the way we did this year. The representative Sverre Myrli also confirmed what I had in my previous post, that they have opposed all of the reforms. This meant that one hadn't escaped the fact that the maintenance run on either railway or road had been at the level that is now in 2021 with their own alternative budget, because they couldn't afford it. That is the reality. But then until what I was actually drawing for, and which I had been going to spend 3 minutes on, that's finally – after the match since 1984, the year I was born, Tottenham won the UEFA Cup, and Åge Starheim, former staging representative of the Progress Party, started the work on it – starting the construction of City Ship Tunnel next year. It is almost that I could have found myself in pure zeal and joy, and also to go with me the Christian People's Party on the team, saying hallelujah. The situation we are in at Sunnmøre and in parts of Nordfjord no is immeasurably important for our ability to create new value creation, new travel life initiatives, new opportunities for the farming industry, large, new opportunities for a larger bus and labour market region and better boat connections along the entire west coast. After more than 35 years of fighting, there is in itself good enough reason to vote subsidiaryly for the budget agreement we now have with the government party. I don't think anyone has an overview of what kind of potential is in this – just the same way that one often hasn't had it on other infrastructure projects. When the Oslo press now writes partly with contempt about the waste of resources, they can only start to look around the country otherwise. When we built the Eiksund connection, they said the same thing. Half-time payments have been made, twice as much traffic as anyone thought was possible, because one triggered a new bus and labour market region. That's exactly what we're going to do with the development of City Ship Tunnel – in an area known for a maritime cluster, in an area where one is aware of creating values and exporting them out of the country, in an area where one is aware of the use of money, but also of investing when necessary. It's unlikely that it's finally in place from 2021, that the Council of State confirms that the proposition comes before summer, and that the work is thus in progress in a way that allows us to develop the entire Norwegian coast for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2816	I'll try to sum up a little bit of a long debate. I want to start with the railway: I think it's a little silly to say that because a railway costs more than you thought, it's not a bet. You have to pay the bill. Once you have bought and received an item, you cannot say: No, I do not want to pay for this, because it became too expensive. With regard to the comment requested in connection with the line bet from Fredrikstad, the majority also have a comment that goes on exactly the same, namely that we don't want a KVU for that route. It is necessary to find a simpler way of doing the necessary cleaning-up of the costs of that railway. We're betting on a lot of projects, and it's true that it's happening in the central strata, but after all, there are a few million people living in the central strata. And the railway is an important carrier in public transport to prevent the big city of Oslo from drowning in buses. We have charged the Centre Party with urban growth agreements and that no more money is given to the cities. Yes, it is true that they have not cut in the post office, but they distribute it to several cities. It really means that the big city will be the big loser, and in this context it's Oslo. There's a lot of talk about tolls here. If you look at the total amount of tolls, it's a function of how much you build. It's almost proportional to how much road you build, for 30 pst. tolls shall cover the expenditure. On the other hand, it should not be forgotten that car charges have fallen sharply in the same period. The one-off fee has been reduced from giving revenue to the country of 25.6 billion. SEK in 2013 to SEK 16,1 billion. kr in 2019. The electric car bet has cost about 13 billion. kr in lost income. These are numbers from the Road Traffic Information Service. Finally, I would also like to say that the main problem with the county roads was that, with a central government council, all of these county roads – holes for holes – were transferred, but it was not accompanied by money. Akershus and Süd-Trøndelag would not be responsible for the county roads, because they knew where it was – that this had to be a spending hatch.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2831	The progressing party has largely started its posts with the fact that this is a joyous day. In the previous years, the Progress Party has been in government, and this is the first year of this growth period that the Transport Budget is at the level proposed by the Workers' Party in its alternative state budget. So the reality description coming from this pulpit is not true. Even though it repeats many times, it won't be right for that reason. The Progress Party also proposed less money for trafficking in 2013 than they do today. There has been a great progress in this area, but it is also true that there is a great need there – it has been, and it is still. I wish we had talked about what are common people's challenges, and had not stood and boasted of their own excellence. That won't be any more true of it. What's the case, if you're going to compare 2013 to 2020, is that in 2013 there were 170 toll stations. In 2019, when the Progress Party went out of government, there were 334 toll stations. The toll is $250. kr. When the Progress Party now votes against and requires state funding of the toll proposals, that is to say they have to pay 250 billion first. kr before starting with the next road project. So it doesn't link financially. When the Right is talking about the Workers' Party being concerned about getting more roadway and transportation for the money, I want to compare it with Trundellag and electrification of the Trunder Railway. I'm gonna need a $5.5-billion trophy. kr to the railway, but we still want the same train offer. Path NOR says that in 2032 there will be two trains per hour. 5.5 B.C.E. kr – and it costs 400 million. kr more for hybrid trains than for electric trains. If one had done it right, one had electrified first, then purchased an electric train, and then had trains that are light enough for the track. But now it becomes much more expensive than it would have to be if you had done the right things. That's what my previous post was about: we need to evaluate the reforms. What are we going to do with two state road companies, e.g.?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2842	I registered that the representative Hoksrud thought it had been at home alone-party. I don't think that's a good description of the budgetary work. I think the government has submitted a very good budget. It's a double about since 2013. I would also like to express my appreciation to the Progress Party for the budget negotiations, because they have helped to further strengthen the budget for transport. So if it was a home alone party, I'll be with the next time you have it, in that case. I was going to comment a little on the claims and statements that have been made in the course of the debate. First to the Center Party: It is almost produced as a significant distribution of bias in the movement around the country. Then we have to look around: when we build a coherent E6 in Northern Ireland, it is not a centralisation measure; it is a district measure. We build an important part of the country and lay the basis for further value creation. When we build a continuous E6 through the Trendelag, it connects the city and builds it together. We build a coherent housing and labour market in an important region, just to create new values and jobs. When we build E6 through the Inland, there's not much centralization about it. It is an important export route – not least for us in the North West – but it is also an important road for those living in the region. And when we build continuous E39 on the South, it's not a centralization project either. It is a solid district project that builds up an entire region. So I just don't know how to do this. So to the debate that always arises when we have budget debates, and when we're going to deal with toll propositions: it's a completely artificial toll debate. Here are the parties that are going to vote for the toll propositions, and that have done so at least as long as I've been here at the house, since 2013. The centre party has voted in favour, the Labour Party has voted in favour, but at the same time we have the strange and artificial discussion, where some people pretend to be almost against tolls, but are still in favour of that kind of funding. It is reflected in our national transport plan; it is assumed that we will finance the projects in the way they are planned, there has been a broad political consensus on it. It must then be possible to deal with it without creating such an artificial debate on tolls. I want to use my last seconds to talk a little bit about the projects we're going to adopt today. I am very happy that we are now getting the E39 Wage – Health. It's an important road, not least for the undersigned and our region, because we have to build that way before we build a new hospital, a new joint hospital for the North-Møre and Romesdal, in that area. So to the E39 Rogfast, I'm very happy that we're now getting it in place as well. I just want to repeat what I said earlier today: I think the representative Nävra does not understand the value of these projects and of ferry-free solutions. This is going to considerably strengthen the region, and I'm very happy that we're now getting the country that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2857	The representative Siv Mossleth has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2862	The representative of the place mentioned many sections of the road, in a way as proof of the government's excellence. But these are projects that we agree on. But to put the differences in perspective, I want to tell you that none of the Right Top Candidates in the North got renewed confidence at home after the year's nominations. They've probably been too eager to defend right-wing government policy. The government now understands that something needs to be done to give the impression that you are busy with the whole country – until now it has been clear that centralisation is goal number one – because the government has delivered messages in the last year on the north, the district industries and the demography. Much common to these messages can be summed up in transport, logistics and good services close to people across the country. I would like to point out a solution, and that is to implement more of the Central Party's policy. That's what people see – and we're looking at the green column that's still growing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2867	The representative of Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2872	I want to use my last minute to re-record the Centre Party's cut in consulting. The representative Mossleth does not respond in a reply earlier today to the question of what consequences this will have for the transportation project. In the case of railway, a weakening of consultancy services before the planning process will lead to the delay of the railway project. A reduction in Bane NOR's use of consultants in railway projects will have very significant consequences for the further development of projects and for the implementation of improvement of supply. For example, the Ministry of Transport has developed two projects that the Centre Party has also prioritised in its alternative budget, namely the Ringeriks track and the realization of two trains an hour between Melhus and Steinkjer. In addition, the Nygårdstangen freight terminal will have a major impact on freight and rail. I can't believe the Center Party's been thinking about the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2879	The representative Bengt Fasterale has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2885	In its alternative state budget, the central party will increase its investments on rail by 330 million. kr more than the government – just so it's said. It's about crossing tracks for better regularity on the Dovreban by 50 million. kr, Narvik Terminal with 50 million. kr, start of the Ringerix track with 130 million. kr, Kongswingerbanen with crossing tracks on both Galterud and Bodung with 50 million. kr, speed up electrification and realisation of two trains per hour between Melhus and Steinkjer – the representative Gunnes – with 40 million. kr and double track planning on the Jærbanen by 10 mill. kr. A little back to what's going on on savings, and that you spend the money up to several times: it's like repeatedly saying that you save money using New Roads. Yes, you do. You save money and get cheaper projects, but it's clear that reaching 34 billion. kr, which is simply a social advantage, is added to that calculation, it becomes a serious mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2892	The representative of Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2897	This is a fantastic debate. It's said so much exciting and interesting that it's almost a little funny here, like the last one from the Workers' Party: what are we going to do with two state road companies? I really thought that debate was over. Here, almost SV really stands and boasts of New Roads, one representative after another goes up and boasts of New Roads, because we see that it works, we know that it works. We see evidence of it every day. So now this debate is coming all of a sudden: what are we going to do with two state road companies? Then I recommend the representative from the Workers' Party, or the entire fraction, that Sverre Myrli take a round out and drive a little car in this country, take a round to the Inland and have a meeting with New Roads, go to Trøndelag and meet with New Roads there, go to Kristiansand and meet with New Roads there, and they will be confirmed again that New Roads are important. Because you get built more safe, safe, nice highway, four-field highway, faster and cheaper than it would have been without two companies. The dynamics in competition here are important, and I hope that the Workers' Party will understand that as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2904	When I take the floor now, it is to answer that as surely as there is a budget debate in the Committee on Transport, it is also that the Workers' Party and the Centre are standing here and eager for toll cuts. None of those parties have, as far as I can see, prioritised it themselves in their budgets. If they are going to ask for it, I strongly recommend doing as the Progress Party and proposing it in alternative budgets, then we can probably agree on real toll cuts that are even bigger than those we've got. Once the Progress Party has – seen together, with the toll agreement – managed to reach almost 2.5 billion. This is not because of the Centre Party, and at least not because of the Workers' Party. When Sverre Myrli stands here and on the inflated and exhausted rams up cuts that the Advance Party has in its alternative budget to the railway, he says we have to tell the whole truth. That's absolutely right, and so should Swearer Myrli. If he reads there, it says 3 pst. efficiencies cut. Path NOR itself has stated that if they could do like New Roads, they could also reduce by 20 pst. The progress party assumes that we set up the company New Banner, on the same line as New Roads, and I'm thinking that 3 pst. Cut goes very well. We're also going to spend 700 million. kr as a cut. Yes, because we're transferring to Nye Veier, because that's where it goes. You should read it all yourself. Then we get a good and well-being tip from the Workers' Party. We're sort of getting some criticism that it's a happy day. Yes, it's a happy day because it's not the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Environment Party The Greens and Reds who run, that's exactly why, because it had looked completely, completely different. That is why the Progress Party is pleased. We're told we should talk to ordinary people. Yes, the Advance Party does. That's exactly why we haven't added up to such a huge tax cut on the car, where both the Workers' Party and the Centre Party and SV have strong tax reinforcements. It's the everyday life of people. Over 80 pst. of the day-to-day journeys taken by car. It has therefore been important for the Progress Party to reverse the increase that the government introduced. The working party now defines that if the Nordics are going to buy a hybrid, there is one car to buy. It was found in other regimes and is found in other regimes. For the Progress Party, freedom of choice is important, and I think it is important for most people. It's about the security of everyday life, which means something. I'm talking to people, and I also recommend this to both the Center Party – with its own – and the Workers' Party, to talk to ordinary people, who feel it has been expensive to buy a car, and to punish the drivers. One has been concerned about how to charge taxes, as much as possible, instead of looking at how we can make sure that more people can get a safe, safe car, and spend a lot of money on repairs to road sections. It is about the safety and security of all everyday travel and work travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2917	The council says he understands the disappointment of Eastfold, but there won't be much railway disappointment. So the Council of State also says he's coming back to NTP with the ambitions. Under the previous Council of State, not so many months ago, we could get in response to written questions that the ambitions were firm – but obviously not so strong, or so very firm. Other representatives from the Right have left an impression here that we should really just understand this in Eastfold. The costs have become so high, so we have to figure this out. But the mileage of the railway is no higher in Eastfold than elsewhere. Yes, the project has become more expensive, and Østfold is more than willing to be with and discuss how we can bring down costs, but from there to say full stop, we're not on it. The council wouldn't go up and say we shouldn't have a KVU for Eastfold. At the same time, the representative from the Right has said that the Right is not for KVU, and they are not included in the comment of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV in the setting. So I wonder, what is the government and government party attitude? Do you now want to start scratch again in Eastfold and go back to a new KVU, or is that what the Right-Representative says, that you don't want a KVU? In that case, it would be a joyous news for Eastfold. I hope you spend time well until NTP, and that you listen to the recordings you have in Eastfold, from those who know Eastfold best in the cities. I'm sure you can find good, constructive solutions together, but then you also have to lighten up a little bit on the veil of hermetized processes and be involved in calculating solutions that would be best suited for those who know where the shoe is pressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2928	Sometimes we have to take into account the weather and the climate challenges. That's why it's a great pleasure that money is now being allocated to City Ship Tunnel, because the coastline past City is dangerous, and it limits the activity in the area. I have a good hope that you can get quick boats between, for example. Bergen and Ålesund, which can be effective for the whole region, when the ship tunnel arrives. The left has the rapporteur in Stad kommune. I've been visiting there sometimes, and I've almost never met so many innovative and creative people. They're really on the rise all the time in terms of new challenges. I look forward to them joining the City Ship Tunnel and taking advantage of it, and not least I am looking forward to what attraction it will be. So to these two road projects that we're adopting today. The left-wing model that we now have, with some toll financing and state contributions, is a good one here. Both are sensible projects, Rogfast clearly in view of the work regions, which link them together – a very good project – and the Wage – Health: If we are to build hospitals, we also need to build infrastructure around it, so it is clear that then we have to build the road. There will be a great job, and there are many who will be transported to the hospital to get the services they provide. Then I heard Kirsti Leirtrø talk about Bane NOR and the Trønderbanen. I have never realized that it is Bane NOR who grants the money. It's in this room that you give the money to the Trunder Railway. If you read the proposition about the Trønderbahn and its future, it's clear that there's an agreement between the county council, the municipality and the state about how two trains per hour are to be performed, and then it's actually up to us. Now they are sitting and planning the crossing tracks that are needed between Stjørdal and Steinkjer, and they should deliver quite soon, so that we might get these projects into next year's state budget. It's the challenge that Bane NOR might not be able to project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2937	The representative Arne Nävra has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2942	With Rogfast as a back carpet, but also with other major transportation projects, I am seriously concerned about the decision-making basis of the Stortinget. Thus, there is a clear tendency that when consultants are involved in the calculation of socio-economic benefits, they often provide answers as the grantor wants. I've mentioned it from the pulpit before. It's serious. I have also given the Council of State advice to look at the results of Nordic research, which actually documents it. This is not good. It is important to take over and also take on to the next NTP process. So to the common housing and labour market, which is constantly being repeated here: I believe that there will be a common housing and labour market around Rogfast, thousands of jobs need to be built on White Island. Then there's a proper distance, then there's an opportunity, but not on each side. So I want to announce that SV will of course go in for the E39 Wage – Health, and it tells a lot about SV's attitude to what kind of roads we prioritize.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2953	I could say a lot about the government's lack of culture in Eastfold, but before the elections in 2013, it was thus that the representatives of the government parties, and especially the representatives of the Right, promised completion of the double track through Eastfold, and that was not the way it was to be finished. Now the same government has parked the double track on a siding, and it's a route that has the potential to serve 250,000 inhabitants in some of Norway's largest cities. It's the most important route from our capital to Europe. It is the main route connected to Norway’s largest freight port, which is not in Norway but in Gothenburg, and where traffic is potentially in the process of filling up the E6. So here we have parked this project, and now in Eastfold we're afraid that we're going to spend even more time on a KVU. We're willing to take responsibility for getting costs down, but it's actually like my colleague on the east fold bench Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen said, that it's not more expensive to build rail in Eastfold than it is in the rest of the country. But it's demanding. It's a very demanding base, it's absolutely right, but that doesn't mean it's not right and important. One is that when we have to convert to a new type of industry, from the black carbon to the green carbon, there are two of the locomotives in Eastfold: Saugbruks and Borregaard. And what is their greatest obstacle to development? Yes, it's infrastructure. But the government parties will not even be on a note to increase the number of timber transport on the track. So that's the willingness to convert. The second is that you can't find $25 million either. to muddy the port of Borg, also one of Norway's main ports of import and not least port of refuge for NATO. Finally, there has been a long debate about the traffic station on Mysen. The government parties have kept us talking well this whole fall. The last thing we heard was that there was to be a report. I searched the budget paper and did not see the Wysen traffic station mentioned anywhere by the government. Then the question is, can the Minister of Transport now give us an answer as to what is happening to the service offer at the Mysen traffic station? Are you going to keep the inner east folds talking well, or are we going to be able to keep the service that's there and that's important for business?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2966	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2971	I just want to reassure the representative Johnsen that we've certainly had meetings with Nye Veier everywhere they've been. We've got a lot of good feedback and learned a lot of how they do things, and what needs they see in the future. The challenge is that the State Road Service is talking down and in a reorganization. There is no competition, but there is an award. There are two state companies, so I hope that when we work with the National Transport Plan, we get an evaluation of the reforms going on, because what we see is that the Riksrevision is constantly slaughtering a lot of things. There is a lot of work going on that has not been discussed. So a curiosity to the Progress Party: In 2013 they proposed 43 billion. kr for transportation, and this year we are at 80 billion. kr, so it might be the same thing as the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2981	The representative Burd Hoksrud has spoken the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2986	It could have been fun to bring the Labour Party representative to read the entire 2013 proposal. It's also fun to listen to the Center Party and the Workers' Party, who are now talking very much for the Eastfold Railway, when you see what the Workers' Party has put in. That was 100 million. kr for planning on all routes. The advance party has 75 million. kr only to Vestfoldbanen south of Tønsberg. The center part has not added a single penny more than the government has added, so it's a little bit sought. But that's not why I was going up. Actually, I should have had the flag, because there are so many good things that are coming, and it's going to be something of. That's really what I was going to say at the end. I was supposed to blow up for the City Ship Tunnel, which is now finally coming. It'll be a decision before summer, and that's good. The council says it's coming to the Storting before Easter, that's what he signaled. Rogfast is great. Wages and salaries – Health: We don't like the tolls, but we definitely like the road, and that it's going to smell and become a road, and not least the "Gass road", which we've been doing for 50 years to get in place. This is insane good!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e2995	The representative Jon Gunnes has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3000	I may not be as enthusiastic as Bård Hoksrud, but the Eastfold course is by no means specified by the government or by the Left. We're really going to work on that. We have had to put a foot in the ground to evaluate the cost calculations that have come later. I think that was quite in place. But it's clear that it's an ambition to get a very good train route down to Halden – and maybe even further. In fact, we hope to get a train from Oslo to Gothenburg, Copenhagen, Hamburg – Europe as a whole. In that case, infrastructure needs to be built in Eastfold to get there, not least internally in Eastfold. I really hope that it comes into place now, and that it counts well in these disciplines. Thank you very much – and Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3007	The representative Helge Place has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3012	Because of the short speaking time, we divide the problems a little bit between us here in the government parties. I just wanted to give a little comment to E39 and Rogfast and the ferry-free solutions. It is important that we build these coastal value-creating regions, precisely because it should contribute to job creation, contribute to increased employment in the coming years. This is an incredibly important project, Rogfast, Hordfast, Møreaksen, Hafast, we have several projects that it is important to realize just to get to it. The second thing I want to mention is the City Ship Tunnel, and I can fully join the post that the representative Dale had about it. I am very pleased that we have now put it in place, together with the Progress Party. It is an important project; it is a priority in the first part of the national transport plan. Now it gets a start. As it was said here, the Council of State has signaled that we can already see a proposition for the Storting around Easter times. I'm very happy about that. Then I also want to say thank you for the debate. I have a little post for later, so I may wish you a good Christmas later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3023	It has been said many times today «a day of joy». I think it's what characterizes this budget. It will create activity, jobs and good infrastructure throughout the country. I finally want to answer some of the questions that have come. Several representatives from Eastfold have addressed this issue with KVU. I want to say: My wish is so absolute to avoid a new KVU. That should be our goal. In the current budget, we spend money on over-costings linked to the Eastfold Railway. It's because we want rational progress on the projects we're doing. So we know that the railway directorate and Bane NOR have given us a good concept of how we can carry on the work, and I think everyone in this room should decide when we come to the national transport plan. So the question about the Wicked Traffic Station. I believe that the Wicked traffic station should exist as today, is well-founded, and that is why I am looking at it now. It's not like there's a change in this right now, it's maybe longer in time, so we have some time to look at it, but I think the recordings that have just come about the Witch – and I've had my own dialogue with the Progress Party especially about that case – make it sound for good reasons to look at it. The representative Myrli has taken this up with the coast route and the need for extra runs because we are now going over to five boats. Now there are two actors, but it's only the one actor who wants to go with boats in the first quarter. It's the Hurtigruten who wants to go with boats, it won't Havila do. This means that Hurtigruten naturally receives an increase in his remuneration, while Havila naturally receives a reduction in his remuneration. Then there's a total of 15 million. kr, which is increased in total, but it does not really cover the full amount of the new boats during this three-month period. The reduced fee for Havilah also helps to cover some of the costs. That's the answer to that question. So thank you for a good debate. It becomes important that we also follow up. We know that the transport sector will be affected by the corona situation also in 2021, so there will be more and more important rounds related to aviation, rail, collective and coastal areas in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3038	The representative Sverre Myrli has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3043	The speech of the figures is quite clear, and what has been proposed in budgetary positions in the past is simply to be found, so that both Bård Hoksrud and others can find it, either by going to the dispatch office one floor down or online. If one goes into the budget positions, if only we relate to this period, the last four government budgets, the Labour Party has had higher appropriations for rail than the majority of the parties, including the Progress Party, which has joined the majority each year, have had. That's the clear speech of the numbers. We're in favour of a more active railway policy, we're going to build more railways, so we're going to spend more money, also for planning. The target must be double tracks for Lillehammer, Halden and Skien, as the Stortinget said earlier. We also need to get started on the construction of the Ringerik Railway. I notice that no speakers from the right parties have mentioned the Ringerix course at all today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3050	The representative of Morten Stordalen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3055	It's interesting to listen to Sverre Myrli, so I need a little comment. The working party says they're spending more money. Yeah, they have the jam a lot of projects, too. It'll be like the NTP in 2017. I'm guessing there was a 50-70-billion missing. kr to comply with those wish lists. In the case of intercity, as an example: when you have the whole intercity, the whole east, and 100 million. kr – that will cost 75 million. kr only for planning and grounding Stokke – Sandefjord, so it is not credible. In addition, the Workers' Party spends money from reforms they're really against, which they want to reverse. They should have added 1.2 billion. kr annually just to go back with these reforms, at the same time much more too, and certainly increase, because the director's salaries Myrli has been so busy for several years, were much higher under Labour Party rule than they are today. That is why it is an artificial budget for the Workers' Party, and that is why it is not a believer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3065	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 18-20.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3082	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3089	I think the transport committee should be able to handle itself briefly now. We've had five hours of good transport debate and we're going to round off with a change proposition. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on the vote. There is an overall committee that is behind the recommendation, so this should not lead to major discussions. I just want to mention a couple of things from the proposition. Some of these are corona-related adjustments, but perhaps the greatest budgetary adjustment in this proposition is the fact that there has not been written an additional agreement with Oslo, which amounts to 600 million. kr, which has then been reduced in appropriations. We believe that this is a sin, but it is now a reality. The second thing I want to mention is the subsidy scheme for the transfer of goods from road to sea, which I guess others have been going to bring up later. We are also not satisfied that we are not able to use the money when we are going to, and that this will be a technical adjustment due to delays of 50 million kroner. NOK, is not something we are satisfied with. I would recommend that we, at least the Council of State, look at the scheme of such types of grant schemes if we see that we are not able to use the money in the way that is intended. In addition, there are adjustments to the cost framework for a few projects, etc. 22 Lillestrøm – Fetsund and Rv. 110 Ørebeck-Simo. That was really the comments I had. Then, since it is my last post before Christmas, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for good cooperation and wish everyone – the Council of State and the Committee – a really good Christmas. If it were to be such that some still have the energy to sit and listen to, I want a really good Christmas to them too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3102	It is quite right that the chairman of the committee said that he calculated that someone was going to speak on the point in the matter of the aid scheme for the transfer of goods from the road to the sea. The Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV have a note in the setting. In the course of the new age process, we have asked the Committee how much money has been allocated, how much money has been cut, and how much money has been spent on the freight support system. Let me just say that the Storting on several occasions has been quite clear that it is an overall goal to move more goods from road to sea and railway. Time and again, the Storting and the Government get critical because we can't follow the objectives. The National Audit has been crystal clear. If we don't do anything, we're going to get even more slaughter from the Riksrevision because we can't move goods from road to rail and sea, which the matter is now about. In the four years the scheme has existed, in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, the Stortinget has granted approx. 300 million. kr to the freight aid scheme. The Government has given an undertaking of approx. Forty million. kr. Usually, what is granted from Stortinget does not go to, and it wants more money. Here grants and grants the Stortinget, but the government does not have solutions on how to initiate projects to get more goods across from the road to the sea. I think it's sad what we're doing now. So we're going to cut 50 million. NOK 75 million. kr to the freight aid scheme. Then it is clear that we cannot pay money to projects just to pay – no one thinks so. But then there has to be something about the scheme, something about the criteria, something about the system that needs to change. There are many good projects out there about how to get more goods over at sea, so I ask the most intimate Minister of Transport to take this seriously. He has almost not, neither he nor his predecessor, used the scheme at all. The size is impatient, will have action, will have goods over at sea, grant money, but the government is unable to implement, will not be able to put it into life. Then we have to look at the scheme. We should not have enough report from the Riksrevision where we are criticized for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3115	It's not hard for me to agree that this is a system that doesn't work well enough. From the scheme was created in 2017 until now, a total of 171 million have been granted. kr. Forty-two million. NOK of this has been paid so far. The changes in the pattern of national budgets and the recent ageings have been made in the light of the principle of realistic budgeting. The reason why the payments have been lower than budgeted is, among other things, delays in some of the received projects. So far, 773 000 tonnes of goods have been transferred until now as a result of the scheme. The Ministry and the Coastal Agency are now assessing changes in the system that will make it more operationally safe but still within the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3122	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3135	Councillor Knut Arild Hareide wants to deliver 7kgl. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3146	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3155	Case No. 1–10 and 13 are second-time law-making and legal acts 49–58 and 61. There are no comments suggested. Thus, the Bill of the Storting has been accepted for the second time and has been sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3169	Case No. 11 is the second time the law is handled and the law is governed by Decision 59. During the debate, Vetle Wang Soleim presented a proposal for a comment on behalf of the Financial Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: The title of the Act is assumed to be replaced by the following: 67 on the payment and collection of tax claims is amended as follows: the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 14-5 is replaced by the following: The employer shall supply, unwritten, information on expenses for each calendar month in accordance with the rules of the A-Information Act. Paragraphs 14 to 5 of the fourth paragraph are replaced by the following: The Ministry may, in its regulation, lay down detailed rules for the implementation of the outlays referred to in this paragraph, including provision that the rules laid down in the second subparagraph shall not apply to certain types of outlays or to draftsmen. [[4]] Roman numeral II is assumed to be replaced by the following: the Act enters into force on 1 January 2021.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3184	The Note to Legislative Decision 59 is hereby attached. The legislative decision, with the adopted note, will be taken up to the third time in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3198	Case No. 12 is the second time the law is handled and is governed by Law 60. During the debate, the representative, Mr Vetle Wang Soleim, presented a proposal for a comment on behalf of the Financial Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: The title of the Act is assumed to be replaced by the following: 43 on the reporting by employers of employment and income relationships etc. the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 8 shall be replaced by the following: The Tax Directorate and the Tax Office shall have access to the information contained in the register in connection with the establishment of taxes and social security contributions under tax law and the calculation and settlement by the employer of taxes, benefits, employers' taxes and financial taxes on wages and salaries under the Tax Payments Act and the National Social Security Act. Roman numeral II is assumed to be replaced by the following: the Act enters into force on 1 January 2021.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3213	The Note to Legislative Decision 60 is hereby attached. The legislative decision, with the adopted note, will be taken up to the third time in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3227	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to grant the funding of the police prosecution in a separate post or chapter in relation to the revised national budget for 2021.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left, the Green and Red Environmental Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3253	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to initiate, during the current period, an investigation into the establishment of a permanent State Investigation Commission for Large Fires or extend the mandate of the State Disaster Commission to large construction fires.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e3270	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in an economic escalation plan for criminal services, aimed at providing the necessary resources for the implementation of sanctions among prisoners throughout the country. The action plan shall be drawn up in close cooperation with the employees’ organisations, the criminal service, the relevant professional environments and relevant voluntary organisations associated with the establishment.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e5733	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e5829	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e5855	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e5874	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Peter Frølich on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposed no. 2–5, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposal No 6, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 7-12, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party proposed no. 13 and 14, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 13 and 14 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate whether the establishment of closed institutions in the field of child protection, including movement restrictions, is in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child’.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to determine whether a residence ban intervenes in the person’s constitutional and Conventional rights, including the freedom of movement, as set out in paragraph 1. The Constitution § 106 and the EMK.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e5916	Proposal No. 7-12, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to submit proposals for legislative changes that lower the threshold for the use of prison sentences for criminals under 18 years of age, as well as for the abolition of juvenile sentences as a sanction for criminals over 15 years of age, thus reverseing the changes made by the Stortinget in 2011. Prop. [[2011-2012]] 135 L Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for amendments to the police law that open the way for the general armaments of the police.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals for changes to the law that remove the penalty rebate for more offences in the day’. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the law to ensure that criminals who have committed crimes in the past are penalised more severely in the event of a new offence.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the law providing for more stringent penalties for crime committed in crime-affected areas.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: "The government asked for a reversal of the criminal detainee from 15 to 14 years, as it was until 1987."
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e5961	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e5966	Do you have any more answers to these errors? - Then we take the vote on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e5978	Proposal No. 6, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to add machetes to the Arms Regulation § 9 concerning the types of knives that are prohibited from acquiring, owning and holding in Norway.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e5996	Proposal No. 4 and 5 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to change the practice of child protection in order to avoid children under the age of 15 who commit repeated crimes and whose child protection cannot be achieved with the treatment of which, in some cases, they are printed for good and sent back to their home.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up and submit to the Storting an overview of the criminal investigation in cases where perpetrators are charged with committing new offences after being convicted and having committed similar offences.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e6022	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e6027	Then we take the vote on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e6039	Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for funds to be set aside for upgrading security equipment and access control in the criminal justice system to prevent gang members from being smuggled in to continue their criminal activities during the settlement process.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening and expansion of the youth units in multi-site criminal services.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e6149	It's first going to be over XI to XVI. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e6163	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee for X and proposal No. 1, from the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal to supplement the provisions of the Criminal Code on the withdrawal of financial benefits, so that a criminal liability can be imposed on those who leave the values, cars, apartments and so on. be in his name.’» The Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the recommendation. Right, Left and Christian People's Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e6182	It's getting wet over IX. Right, Left and Christian People's Party have warned that they want to speak against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e6196	It's going to be gravitated over V and VI. The Socialist Left Party has warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e6210	It's getting wet over III. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e6225	It's going to be wet over I and II. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e6239	It shall be weighed over IV, VII and VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e7607	A total of 28 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1–15, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 16-18, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 19 from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party proposed no. 20-22, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 23-27, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 28, from the Helge place on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party Proposal No. 27, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting immediate action by the government to reduce the noise of the inhabitants along the Trondheim road between Sinsen and Grorud, including lower speed limit with average measurement and to delay work on replacing windows on the Delete River, collective fields and new noise screens on the route.’ The Labour Party, the Greens and Reds have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e7645	Proposal No. 24, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to contribute to the creation of zero-emission zones by major cities.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e7662	Proposal No. 23, 25 and 26, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of electricity aircraft requirements in future calls for tenders, reductions in Avinor charges, exemption from VAT and the organisation of infrastructure at airports so that Norway can lead the transition to zero-emission aviation.’;» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking for funding models for large railway investments other than ordinary ones, e.g.: through the infrastructure fund's facility with the aim of also financing major railway projects, direct borrowing or other. The government is asked to come back to the Stortinget with a case, since the revised national budget for 2021. ‘... Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up a new high-speed investigation by the external trade union community presupposes that high-speed rails should be a multi-use concept for freight and passenger transport and that assesses a varied stopping pattern.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e7691	Proposal No. 20-22, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the planning of a third runway on the Gardermoen’.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to contribute to the establishment of geographically subdivided contracts irrespective of whether it is New Roads, the State Road Administration or the county authorities that have the overall responsibility to minimise operating costs.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to start work to put in place a night offer to Copenhagen and Germany.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e7721	Proposal No. 19, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the construction of the City Ship’s Tunnel starts up in 2021.’» The Central Party and the Red Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e7738	Proposal No. 16-18, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the assessment of possible compensation schemes for air passenger charges on flights on the short-haul network and returns to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a TT scheme in Nav based on the principles applicable to State aid to TT in the counties of 200 journeys per user per year.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The budget requests that unused funds under the State TT scheme in 2020 be used as a whole to enable new counties to be included in the scheme from 1 July 2021.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e7767	Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that there is sufficient air services also to Stord Airport and Ørland Airport.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e7784	Proposal No. 1–4 and 6–15, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adapt the charging structure to stimulate demand for zero-emission aeroplanes and to start adapting the infrastructure at Avinor’s aerodromes to zero-emission aeroplanes.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate the possibility of requiring Norwegian salary and working conditions on routes between Norwegian airports.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that companies operating routes on a tender, so-called FOT routes, undertake to offer a continuous ticket.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of the FOT route scheme to include routes to/from Florø airport and Stokmarkne airport, as well as increased route offers to/from Ørsta-Volda airport.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size of the government in future budgets calls for a better visibility of the number of kilometres of new foot-and-mouth routes, including through urban growth agreements, involved in the draft budget’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the work on the competitive outsourcing and privatisation of the operation and maintenance of railway infrastructure.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop planned increases in rail freight charges on rail.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a targeted plan for hydrogen use in the transport sector and at the same time demonstrates the potential for value creation.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a financing plan to resume the maintenance run on the railway by 2030.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that multi-use terminal planning is initiated at Sørli i Stange.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a universal design plan for all Norwegian railway stations by 2025.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue the subsidy schemes for the country’s museum railways.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to maintain the positions in the field of preparedness and the environment at the Coastal Stations in Bergen, Kabelvåg and Ålesund.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to take the initiative to increase the position of the Coastal Plant in the field of marine pollution in close cooperation with the Oil Protection Centre and the Marine Environment, and to return to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e10314	There is also a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Holy Place on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Authorities of Commitments The Storting agrees that, in 2021, the Ministry of Transport will be able to offer grants in addition to the appropriations allocated, but so that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Cape. Post Title Total frame 1320 State Road Administration 64 Rehabilitation of county roads for timber transport 20000000’» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e10337	The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e10356	During the debate Arne Nävra has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a full and detailed climate budget for Rogfast development and to return to Stortinget with a report by 1 March 2021 at the latest.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e10385	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e10404	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size approves the extension of the project E39 Lännet-Hjelset in Møre and Romsdal as referred to in Prop. 55 S [[2020-2021]] Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e10501	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e10525	The Party of Progress, the Greens and Reds, have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-18.ana.ud508e11682	Thus, today's map is finished. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
