ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e62	The representative of Terje Halleland will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e67	I am delighted to present a proposal by the representatives of Helge André Njåstad, Jon Georg Dale and myself for a review of the plans for protected watercourses, with the aim of facilitating increased value creation through the development of hydropower. I would also like to make a proposal from the representatives of Helge André Njåstad, Jon Georg Dale and myself to change the hydro tax in order to have more profitable investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e74	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The Financial Committee shall apply for a derogation from the second sentence of Article 43(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting that the Financial Committee shall give its opinion on the revised national budget no later than 2 Friday in June. Under Section 79 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the application be met. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e94	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e101	The attitude of the Presidency concerns an SV representative proposal, which proposes to ask the government to tighten up the political governance quarantine regime in the ministries on specified points. The proposal concerns, inter alia: the composition of the quarantine subject, restrictions on the right to set up companies during the quarantine period and the infringement fee and the obligation to pay back in the event of a breach of the quarantine law. In addition, a change in the back-up scheme is proposed for policy-makers in the ministries. Similar proposals were made by representatives of SV in the previous session. It was not adopted. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation had informed in an opinion that there would be a statutory audit in this area. In this context, I note that in February 2020, the government decided to set up a sample to review the quarantine law. It is clear from the proposal of the representative to be considered here today that the proposers were aware of the appointment of such a legislative committee. Nevertheless, the proposers considered that the Storting should place clearer orders on the sample for a minimum of restrictions in the quarantine system, in line with what is proposed. The Presidency does not agree with that. We believe it is appropriate that the Storting wait for the work of the law commission and for the government to deal with it, in line with good practice. It is not desirable to place bindings on the work of the sample, as the representative proposes. I note that it is clear from the government's press release on the legislative committee that it will consider four of the five proposals presented in the draft representative, which were also promoted in the previous session. That's good, and the presidency has assumed that this will be followed up by the law commission. The last proposal in the proposal for a representative is that the system of retirement benefits for the political management of the departments should be amended so that those who have income from remuneration, economic activity or pensions etc. after retirement, no retirement benefit is paid for a period of one month, irrespective of the source of the income. This is not part of what is to be assessed by the legislative committee. However, the Presidency does not consider it appropriate to consider changes in some elements of existing rules on retirement performance now without being seen in a coherent manner. Before considering changes in the rules on exit performance, the Presidency considers that both the revision of the Quarantine Act and the work of the sample to assess common principles of remuneration for policy-makers at all levels of government decided on by the Stortinge to be reduced. At this stage, therefore, the Presidency's recommendation is that none of the individual proposals in the draft representative should be adopted. I refer to the remarks in the vote and recommend with the unanimous recommendation of the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e120	I might not be surprised, but I have to say that I am a little upset that neither the presidency nor – as it looks – the rest of the Storting will have an opinion on this. So there has been a case by case that has been publicly known and criticised, where there have been violations of the rules. And this big thing -- the majority here -- has no problem in adopting very strict rules, even in individual paragraphs, in terms of tightening for people who otherwise have public benefits. But when it comes to seagoing, we're not going to have an opinion, seagoing if we see that it's being abused. So I'm promoting the proposals that we've made in the representative proposal. There is time to tighten up the setting-up of consulting companies, for example: It's okay to do that, but you can't do it speculatively, as it looks like more people have done – set up a company, got paid back for three months, and then let the company just fool out afterwards, without any kind of activity in it. It's okay to set up a company, but then you have to get quarantined without getting paid for it, and then you have to sign up for Nav like other people and take the job that's assigned, like other people. There should be no difference between politicians and other people. We are the ones who are sitting and adopting the rules that others have to follow, and we have to be able to follow the jam. So there's a need to tighten up who rules these rules. It does not mean that it should be a matter of ecpolitical decision-making. It should be added, for example: Nave control, which are the ones that can follow up such things. There is also a need to react when someone violates the rules, to lose the money they have been given unjustly, and to get a penalty, as others get when they break the rules and get benefits they do not have the right to. I am quite surprised that the presidency does not think it is right, and that there should be different rules for politicians than for other people in this society when they break the rules on getting benefits. It must be possible to recover the compensation that has been provided, and there must be a basis for it to be punishable if it is to be done. To the last point: it's about when you leave the government, you could before, when you go back to the Stortinget, you could also get double pay for one month. We got that stopped. But still a government council that goes off and goes straight back to a well-paid job can also get full pay as a state council for one more month. It doesn't make any sense. Those rules need to be amended. It means SV, and I had really hoped that there were several parties that could say something about this today, and show that they also see these injustices.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e133	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e152	Let me make a few comments on behalf of a unanimous committee. There is very little to note in the setting this time. It's okay to clarify that in the last six months last year there was no dissent in the government. To the extent that someone had to get the impression that the government might sometimes disagree internally, there is at least nothing that has been expressed in terms of theses. We also have no comments on the appointment of office. I would like to mention that in the past we have had some problems getting an overview of complex candidate lists, so that we have a full overview of who have been current candidates for appointment. But as we note in the setting, there is a situation that has improved, as we are essentially getting the information the size should get. Just a brief comment on the regulations: we have no comment on the regulations that we have now had in mind. There are no regulations that have been found to go into more detail, but it is a topic that is important that we follow up in the Storting. Let me use, for example, the discussion that has been on predatory policies, for example. There is one example that it has been discussed whether the government's use of regulations, the follow-up, has been in line with Storting's intention. But perhaps even more than that: something that we stressed last year at this review was the many regulations adopted by delegation, which are not adopted by ministries but out in the apparatus. We said that then, and I am sure that I am speaking on behalf of an entire committee when I now say that it is a theme we must follow closely in the future, both we, possibly the Riksrevision and others: when there are people who are on delegated authority far out in the system, it is of course especially important for the ministry and the state councils, but also for us in the Storting, to follow that the regulations are designed in line with the Storting's intention. There are many points from which we have a discussion in Stortinget about a law, to the consequences of the law that meets our everyday society. Therefore, it will be incredibly important in the future to keep track of the full impact of the democratic process on the system. It's a topic we've discussed in the committee and will be busy following forward. There are no comments in the current setting, and the setting is completely unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e163	The 2019 Annual Report brings forward four important issues, and I would like to say a little about one of those issues. As regards the use of new management technologies, a number of issues and dilemmas will arise in this area of legal regulation. Fully automated decision-making systems and the use of new technologies can facilitate both effective treatment, equal practices across the country and a very systematic and correct follow-up of citizens' rights. That's very good. At the same time, it is very important to be aware that this also has a... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e170	State Council of Malta, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but is your post on case no. 3 and not on case No. Two?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e175	Could be, President. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e180	But the Council of State is cordially welcome back to the pulpit in the next case. Then no more people have asked for the floor in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e199	Then the President and Chairman of the Committee, Dag Terje Andersen, will have the floor first – and then we will take the liberty of also putting Monica Mæland on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e204	I then record that the Council of State is keen on the theme that we are now going to address, and I look forward to the input from the Council of State. There are also not many comments from the Committee on this matter. The Committee is unanimous in its assessment of the annual report we have received. But let me stress that it shows us a work in a national audit that has an unusually important role in Norwegian democracy, and that – let me also stress it – we seem to meet very well in the reports we are receiving for treatment. I say that because – now it is known that some of us are in the so-called Harberg Committee – there are sometimes discussions about the role of the Riksrevision in relation to the Storting: whether they are relevant, whether they make with their reports, etc., whether there are too many, whether there are too few. Then I think it's okay – and we've also discussed it in the committee – that I stress that we think the Riksaudien meets our needs in a good way. It concerns administrative audit and compliance audit. There could probably be some issues that individual representatives are burning for, and we might want to get even deeper into. However, it is mainly relevant reports that sort of make what it is worth to follow extra closely. Then there are only two things I want to comment on briefly. One is that we stress from the Committee – and I refer to the setting on page 8 – that we agree that management guidance is an important part of the activities of the National Audit Office, but at the same time would remind you of the opinions of the Frøiland Committee, where it is emphasised that it is: ‘a fundamental difference between subsequent control and forward-looking control. In this context, it is natural to stress the self-responsibility of the administration for its own road choices, regardless of the guidance of the audit.’;» So we're pointing to the dilemma that guidance, which is very valuable, has to be balanced in relation to the fact that responsibility remains with the executive. We've found reason to stress this, but we don't mean to say that there's anything to it. So just a brief comment on the company control – not what has been so far, for the company control that has been, we have been pleased with. But I would like to stress that I think it will be a topic that will be important for us to follow closely in the future. Yesterday we discussed a statement by the Minister of Oil and Energy on the so-called Equinor case. There has been a discussion – last year’s report focused on the exercise of ownership with wage developments. And after what I now heard at the current Council of State review two or three days ago, there is a theme that is very good reason to follow on. I simply believe that corporate control becomes one of the things that Stortinget systematically also has to engage in in the future, and has reason to believe that it can happen in close and good cooperation with the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e220	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office and join his reflections when it comes to the Riksrevision. The Riksrevision is entirely decisive for the Storting to be able to control all 232 companies, 12 Ministry of Owners and many whole and shared companies. It is absolutely crucial that they make the running control and be careful. It's our ability to follow up what happens after the Storting has made decisions on different issues. So we need it, and I think that such reports are decisive for the political debate. Sometimes I think that the assessment of the Riksrevision could have gone even a little further, perhaps stimulating a political debate. In 2019, both the press and the Labour Inspectorate have had a critical look at how the Riksrevision itself complies with the Working Environment Act and the working time rules. It is absolutely crucial that the National Audit Office, as a supervisory body, appoints itself to comply with the rules and laws that are in force. Openness is an important objective of the National Audit Office. In 2019 there has also been some debate on the grading of some of the reports to the Riksrevision. Here we have to look at how we can combine the faith in order not to open everything, but at the same time be able to be even more clear that we have the most openness possible, so that society around us can participate in the difficult debates and discussions we have. I think it's important that we be able to take that piece a little bit further, so that we get the most open debates possible. I would also like to mention that I am pleased that the Riksrevision sympathizes with the fact that they have strengthened the staffing and make their regional offices function in a good way, and that they have an extensive international commitment. We are now entering a year in which both the law of the Riksrevision and the control function of the Stortinge are to be reviewed. It gives us the opportunity to look at what is most important with the largest and oldest body of the Great Britain, and how the Riksrevision can best make us have a political debate, can lead to control of organs and at the same time benefit our bodies and not create too much extra work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e234	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Case No. 4 and 5 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e264	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to speakers from the other parties and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e271	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on these two messages from the Civil Ombudsman. It is very gratifying that the Committee is in agreement with all our comments on both reports, both the annual report from the Civil Ombudsman and the annual report from the Civil Ombudsman's preventive unit. I would not least like to thank the Civil Ombudsman for his good messages about important work, both for the individual and for society. The individual citizen has an opportunity through the Civil Ombudsman to have his case with the administration examined by a neutral and independent body. In particular, the role of the Ombudsman as a watchman for human rights vis-à-vis the administration is important. In 2019, 3 882 things came to the Civil Ombudsman. There's a slight drop from last year, after several years of recovery. The Committee supports the Ombudsman’s efforts to make the Ombudsman more familiar and to raise more cases and to reduce the length of the procedure, which has produced results. In the 2019 Communication, the Ombudsman promises some specific themes: environmental law, freedom of expression of public servants in social media, coercive medicine and robotics decisions in the administration. Some quick points from these themes: The Ombudsman raises issues in the field of environmental law in the notification of the year. The Committee agrees with the Ombudsman that these are important issues for citizens and for the Ombudsman. The Committee points to the importance of assessing land-use planning in accordance with both the principles of the Nature Diversity Act and local democracy and the importance of both. The Committee also stresses the decision of the Stortingen to protect the coastal zone. The Ombudsman has also dealt with issues relating to coercive medication and the use of the requirement of a high probability of significant impact of mental health protection in the counties. The requirement of high probability of significant power implies a real requirement that is more stringent than the general probability overweight. The Committee notes that the Ombudsman considers that the probability assessment required by law to adopt coercive medication is not met in several specific cases. We assume that the practice of the county councillors follows the proper application of the law in force, and we ask the government to follow this matter up separately. So to the Civil Ombudsman's work on the administration's relationship with human rights. The Ombudsman has dealt with cases and concluded that Norway’s human rights obligations have not been fulfilled by the administration, and thus decisions have been transformed into several cases. In this respect, the Committee stresses that if practices are found not to be in line with the human rights obligations, this must lead not only to the conversion of the individual case but also to a change of practice. The Committee therefore asks the government to consider how to better catch up in management. Finally, I will say something about the annual report from the Civil Ombudsman's preventive unit. The prevention unit has played an important role in the last five years and has already achieved results, including: for the legal certainty of people. The Ombudsman promises in particular the use of safety bed belt laying in the notification of the year. The Ombudsman is very critical of the practice of Norwegian prisons and indicates that the use of cots constitutes a serious interference with personal integrity and also poses a significant risk of somatic damage and trauma. The Committee shares the view of the Civil Ombudsman that the use of safety cots in Norway has an extent and practice that is not in line with current guidelines, nor with international standards provided by the European Convention on Human Rights, and we expect government and criminal services to follow up on the facts found by the Civil Ombudsman. With that, I thank the Cooperation Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e292	I would first like to thank the case officer for his good work on both of these matters. There are two important things. The Civil Ombudsman is doing an invaluable job for us. I now want to focus mainly on the preconstruction unit. I want to strengthen what the case spokesman said about the important role this work has played, and the results they have achieved over the last five years. I believe that visits from the unit to child protection institutions, institutions and prisons are an important way for society to ensure that people who are deprived of freedom are not deprived of their human rights at the same time. In the 2019 Annual Report, the pre-construction unit particularly highlights the use of safety cots in prison. This is a severe intervention into the individual’s personal integrity and endangers somatic injury and trauma. Early in the spring, the control committee discussed its separate report on isolation in Norwegian prisons. The extent of isolation in prison is extensive and the follow-up of the isolated is weak. Our legislation is not clear that isolation should only be used in specific cases and over as short a period as possible, with a high risk of violation of the prohibition against torture and other inhumane treatment or punishment due to the isolation use in Norwegian prison. The Civil Ombudsman has made recommendations in the separate communication on isolation and the lack of human contact in Norwegian prisons, whether they are using their rights to social community and necessary legislative changes and the need for governance information. We are now waiting for this to be followed up by the government, and for reporting from work. Both in terms of the use of a safety bed and in terms of isolation in prison, the Civilo Ombudsman points to major weaknesses in the coordination and cooperation between the criminal services and the health services. This cooperation is necessary to prevent intervention from being implemented. Taking away some freedom involves a demanding situation in life and is often associated with physical and mental illness. For that very reason, we need the preconstruction unit to work to ensure that those from whom the state has taken the freedom will not be deprived of human dignity either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e305	Again: I apologize for my zeal instead. Since the cases have been merged, I will omit my post on case no. 4 and go to case no. 5, on the Civil Ombudsman's Annual Report, which points to major challenges in criminal matters. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has also highlighted the seriousness of the use of safety cots in particular. It is the most invasive coercive drug available to Norwegian prisons. Use of safety cots may be hazardous to health if used over time. The challenges associated with isolation in Norwegian prisons are also highlighted. I'm serious about this. Prison is an important part of social protection against crime. At the same time, it is invasive to hold someone in prison. Neither custody nor punishment shall involve degrading or inhumane treatment. Studies show that prisoners as a group have a high incidence of psychiatric disorders and drug problems. Some people are so sick that they don't work together with other inmates. This is demanding for criminal justice and poses several challenges. Some of these can only be solved through effective cooperation with the health sector. It follows from the Granavolden platform that the government will reduce the use of isolation and strengthen treatment provision in the field of mental health protection in criminal care. Several measures have already been taken. This month we open a new prison in Agder. A national reinforced Community department of the Ila prison and detention centre has been established and a resource team is to be established at the Bergen prison. The Penal Code lays down strict conditions for the use of safety cots. Prisons may only use cots to prevent prisoners from harming themselves, and this must be strictly necessary. I assume that criminal services have a conscious and restrictive view of the use of safety beds. The primary strategy in Norwegian anti-self-injury care is human contact. Whenever possible, mentally ill prisoners are transferred to psychiatry. Safety cot shall only be used as a last resort. Both legislation and practice shall be in line with international obligations. Through the management dialogue I want to make sure that this is followed up. I also want to ensure that criminal services follow up on efforts to reduce isolation in prison. The Ministry of Justice and Defence will carefully review this annual report. We are currently considering amending the provisions of the Penal Code on exclusion from community and the use of coercion in prison. The Ombudsman's report and recommendation are a very valuable contribution in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e322	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e327	This is going to be a little follow-up from a previous round we had here in the hall on the exact terms of settlement, on the basis of a special message from the Civil Ombudsman. In that round, the Council of State was quite new in its chair and had basically driven with the Korona, and I understand that, but now the Council of State has been sitting a little longer. And since this was part of the subject of the Council of State's posts, I could imagine asking whether the Council of State has thought more about the discussion we had then, about the flat cuts in the building, referred to as the 'ABE-cut', simply that there is little resources, could be a contributing factor in the excessive use of coercive measures, i.e. those who work in this sector seem to have to use coercive measures. For this is dedicated people who do a job, but who in despair of lack of resources sometimes have to use coercive measures. Has the Council of State gone any further into this issue since we discussed the issue last time here in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e332	I do, even though in and of myself I still have a lot of control over the coronary situation. I have also started to travel so little, and this week I visited, among other things. transitional housing in the criminal justice system in Bergen. It is important to meet both employees and prisoners to listen to the situation. The situation remains that isolation use is increasing, and there is still a difficult situation in criminal services related to the corona. It'll be over. Then it is the case that the members of the criminal service report that the ABE cuts are demanding. It is done in all state establishments. Either you visit health businesses, defenses, police, courts, it's reported that the ABE cuts are demanding. I understand that, because flat cut is very often, but we haven't found any good alternative. This is not money that disappears from the state budget; this is money that is used as a room for action in the state budget. So yes, that's a contributing reason, but it's about a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e339	I think I now hear a somewhat more appropriate state council than we did in the previous round we had on this topic. For one thing, to have a conscious attitude to efficiency and efficiency, preferably in the form of keeping at least part of the resources saved and contributing to the improvement of the quality of what they do. But I am glad that the Council of State also hears from the employees – and as she says, also in sectors other than what she is responsible for – that the ABE cuts go directly on the service provision, in this case to the prisoners and in other cases to patients and clients. And therefore, I just get to ask that the Council of States keep going in and listen to those who are actually doing this demanding job out in everyday life, that one takes into account this resource situation, that there is also an element in trying to avoid unreasonable – and sometimes unlegitimate – use of coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e344	Discussing the ABE reform is a separate debate. I recognise that it is demanding for the businesses, we are told of that, but I think it is right. I think it's right that the state also streamlines, just as the municipalities do, just as the business community does it all the time. I have often shown myself to be a local politician for 14 years – and in 10 of them as town councillors – where improving the efficiency was important: we had a job stop, we had a trip stop, we had a consulting stop. So efficiency was part of everyday life in the municipality. It was never in the state, and I think it was high time that the state also streamlined. But it's demanding. This means that you have to think about new things all the time, you have to use new digital tools, and you have to look at the organisation. And the organization is part of what I come back to when it comes to, among other things. Criminal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e349	Now the minister was not on this subject in case no. 4 here, but this coercive medication is an important matter for the Civil Ombudsman. It's obvious that there's discomfort in some environment, and one thinks that the county officials' practices are wrong. It's very intrusive for the individual when this is done. What would the government like to do to follow up on this matter in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e355	I wasn't in because it's not my field. Forced medication belongs to the Minister of Health and Welfare's field of expertise. That is why I did not comment on it, and I ask that the question be asked to him.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e360	A little bit of the reason I was in there, is that it's part of this report. But I can go on to this with fully automated processing and robotization. The Civil Ombudsman points out that there are a good deal of challenges in terms of openness and publicity and whether it can be verified, while at the same time respecting privacy. How does the minister view it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e365	I was so eager to make an article about this particular field because I think it is important. I think it's very good to use new technology, but it has some challenges in it, and we have to be able to balance this. As I said, the fact that you get the same practice, that you get the right form, that you get more efficiency, is very good, but we have to make sure that the procedure also takes care of privacy considerations, and that you maintain transparency. That is why we have started our own work in the Ministry of Justice where we are just going through this to see how we can both legally and practically meet these challenges that are there, and that work is also going on in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e370	Part of the Civil Ombudsman’s mandate, duties and also this communication are the practice of administration in relation to our international human rights obligations. It is quite common for the Civil Ombudsman to find that in specific cases the administration comes up with decisions, decisions, practices that are not in line with those commitments. That is why the Committee in the configuration has asked the government to look at how this is captured. It has the background to other issues that we have discussed in this committee and in this room – precisely how to capture and change practices when one first finds concrete cases where administration is not in line with international human rights obligations. That's why I want to ask the Council of State to say something about what the government is going to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e375	As I said, we're going to go carefully through the Civil Ombudsman's Annual Report, and of course we're going to start work on doing what an overall committee recommends, to look at how we capture this. It is quite obvious that both our practice and our law should be in line with our international obligations and with the rights that apply, so here we simply need to have a practical review to see how this is captured.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e380	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e399	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to speakers from the other parties and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e406	The EOS Committee is the agency of the Stortinges with the secret services in Norway. The main purpose of control is to ensure that citizens’ rights are not violated and that laws and regulations are observed. The EOS Committee shall ensure that the secret services balance the privacy of individuals with the security needs of society and citizens. In this work, the EOS Committee controls among others. whether the registration of persons by the Police Security Service is in conformity with the Act, that the E Service does not violate the prohibition of monitoring Norwegian persons residing in Norway, and on matters relating to the security clearance of the National Security Authority and the Defence Security Department have been properly addressed. In my post, I want to concentrate on the police security service. That's where the selection and the committee have their most obvious comments, and where you come up with criticism. As far as the other services are concerned, I refer to the Committee's comments in the vote. All comments have been made by a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Let me remind you that on 5 December 2019, the EOS Committee issued a special notice to the Stortinget on the illegal collection and storage of information on air passengers by PST. The committee strongly criticised the Police Security Service for obtaining a large amount of information on Norwegian citizens' air travel. The committee considered that the collection has been illegal because the PST has not had a legal basis for it. The stork joined this critique. In the annual report we are now considering, the sample has criticised the PST for having registered large-scale representatives only on the basis of the fact that they were members of a partnership group that allows them to be exposed to foreign intelligence. The committee believes that the PST demonstrated an admirable judgement by registering the staging representatives. PST has informed the sample that they will delete the registrations. An overall committee joins in the selection's criticism of the PST. These records against policy environments will not only be a question of interference with individual legal certainty, but may have consequences for society as a whole. Democracy rests on the freedom of expression and the ability of citizens to act politically. The registration of the service could have a cooling effect on the ability of citizens to act politically. The PST defended its registration, but after the selection took up the registration, the PST concluded that they should delete this registration. An overall committee believes it is critical that the PST made this registration of wholesale representatives. This matter again demonstrates the importance of the work and mandate of the EOS Committee. The Committee expects the PST to take note of the criticisms it has received and to refer to its practice. The Committee notes that the EOS Committee has raised several issues that have led to criticism of the PST, both the matter of air passenger lists and now the issues mentioned in the annual report of the EOS Committee for 2019. The Committee also notes that the PST in these cases first chose to disagree with the sample and then ended up changing its practice. The Committee asks the Government to provide clear guidance signals to the PST on what is acceptable, in the light of those issues. The Committee points out that a journalist was registered by PST because he was invited to dinner by a person associated with foreign intelligence. Although five years had passed without any new information in the case, the PST considered it necessary to keep the registration since the person could still be exposed to foreign intelligence. The committee disagreed that the PST had a basis for keeping the registration. PST has later informed the sample that they want to delete it. As a final remark to the PST, the Committee has stated that ‘two serious cases have been brought in a short time, in which the PST has demonstrated sound judgement in the service and through its management of the control of the EOS Committee has contributed to the heightening of criticism. The Committee therefore calls on the Committee to have a particular focus on the performance of the PST's discretion in further control.’ I expect this now to be taken into account by the PST, and that the government and the sample follow up. It is a comprehensive annual report from the EOS Commission for Work in 2019. To conclude, I would just like to say what the Committee finally writes in its comments: ‘The Committee is satisfied with its approach to this and would like to thank the EOS Committee for its important and well-worked work during the reporting period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e434	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good job and for a good review here. I am really taking the floor just to stress what the rapporteur says about our concern that we have more issues relating to PST. Early in the work of the current committee, during this large-scale period, a discussion started between the EOS Committee and the PST on the access to information to the EOS Committee. What the case rapporteur said about the specific report on the registration of air passengers, which we were given for consideration, is correct. It belongs to that story that it was not the first time that criticism was raised against it; it had previously been criticised by the Control Committee without the relationship being corrected. So the special message came, and now information about registration of wholesale representatives. I fully agree with the seriousness of the matter put by the rapporteur. I would say in particular because we feel that even when the EOS Committee contacts, they encounter opposition in the PST; which in the first place – as the rapporteur explained – actually defends the mispractice and sometimes lack of legal support that has been used. There is reason to stress the seriousness of this also to the Council of State. This report is about the Intelligence Service, and there we do not experience the same problems, but perhaps a somewhat more proactive attitude to be active to ensure that a person adheres to the laws and regulations that apply. I'd like to stress the seriousness of that. Because we need secret services in Norway, but then we absolutely need that the mindset and culture of those organisations are aimed at ensuring that the law you are going to handle, and that you ensure that you adhere to the laws and regulations of the work being done. I would therefore like to emphasise as much as I can, a support for the presentation of it by the case-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e441	This is in many ways an underline of what the case spokesperson said. I want to thank him for an incredibly good work and good cooperation in the committee. It is serious when the EOS selection has to use as much power on some of these matters as they do. They will attend in the first round, and will have to review the matter several times. The EOS selection has an increasing number of tasks, including the E-service, PST and others, and they need to do their part of the job. But if the EOS selection is to do a good job, we're actually dependent on it being a good and constructive collaboration with them to control, so they don't use so much force to change things they think are wrong. I think it is unnecessary to use resources when more or less they have to "crimp" with the etats they're going to follow up before they accept to change their practices. It should be such a good thing to do it quickly. That there's especially PST that's pointed at here now, because there are several things that lie there, where one verb has had to use forces to treat this piece. So it's important that one gets to clarify this. I expect the government to also take action here and sys to make the EOS selection as effective as possible. We have had several challenges in clearing cases, which are also mentioned in the report. It turns out that people are being treated differently, and it is perceived that they are being treated in random ways, considering how things are going. You can't accept it in the future. Therefore, it is important that a culture is given where the services that the EOS selection is to follow up and control are in such a way that the control work needed in the future becomes effective and flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e450	I too must join in thanking the rapporteur for very good work on this message. It is gratifying that the entire Committee is united on important communications back to the EOS services in the country. I too must stress the concern that I and others in the Committee have expressed, because it is absolutely essential for a democracy and an open society that we can trust that the rule of law will follow the laws and regulations that this house adopts for these services. The control of the EOS services in open democracy is extremely important, and therefore it is so worrying when we get more and more issues with a character that the PST does not follow the laws and regulations that we set, and that they extend on a basis of law and – not least – do not attend the EOS Committee when the EOS Committee first contacts, addresses criticism of services and makes them aware of errors. We need these services. They're doing an extremely important job. But even with the job and the effort they make, it becomes more difficult for us to trust them when such matters come. And trust is a very important part of the job that PST and the other parts of these services do. From this message we have received several cases, but in particular the case of registration of large-scale representatives solely on the basis of membership of partnership groups. As the rapporteur said, it is not only a potential infringement for the representatives concerned, it also has a potential cooling effect for the whole of society, and it is quite serious. In addition, as many people have also visited, we have not long since abandoned the matter of the specific notification of systematic illegal mass collection and storage of information on air passports. In that case, the PST was also the victim of intensified criticism from the EOS Committee, because of the way PST met the selection. There's a reason to warn you. At all, it is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that there is no unculture that is developing in the service, and I therefore hope that the Council of State in its contribution will prepare an active work against the particular PST, so that we can be sure that our trust in such an important service will not be disrupted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e463	Let me first join the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs in identifying the importance of the EOS Committee's control of our intelligence and security services. The EOS Committee ensures the legitimacy of the services, which is a prerequisite for them to carry out their tasks. There are also this year's cases that show the eligibility of the EOS Committee. The EOS Committee has criticised the PST for having registered large-scale representatives on the basis of membership of a partnership group. It is important that the PST act within the framework of the task execution given by the government and the Stortinget. The fact that the PST has changed its practice when it turns out to be wrong is that it is taken seriously. I record that the sample is satisfied with the fact that the PST has taken the evaluation of the sample into account for its practice. In the future, the Ministry will place emphasis on the discretion of the service in the management of the PST, as the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee assumes in its position on the matter. The Ministry will focus in particular on the internal control of the service, including: with background to the case of aeroplane passenger lists. It is important, and in line with the Control Act, that services are given the opportunity to comment on issues that may end in criticism. Such dialogue could help to ensure that matters are properly informed. I assume, of course, that the service loyally follows up the final comments of the EOS Committee on the matter. I'm also going to follow it up in my dialogue with the PST. I am pleased that the EOS Committee concluded that there has been a positive development in the quality of the implementation of the safety calls in the NSM, the National Safety Authority, and the FSA, the Defence Security Department. Such conversations are important in assessing whether persons are fit to process security-grade information — information that could potentially be used by unauthorised persons to seriously harm the Norwegian community and the relationship with our allies. It is important that privacy and legal certainty are safeguarded in clearance cases and the findings of the EOS Committee must be properly followed up. I want to follow up on the need for a better and more even quality of the security talks in the NSM unit management.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e476	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e481	Thank you for the speech by the Council of State. I want to follow up on one point. It is true that the criticism is in agreement with the fact that there has been a registration, in this case by wholesalers. But as the Council of State has probably got along, the attitude is marked by the fact that there is a unanimous committee that is concerned above all that it might seem that it is a culture from the PST to protest against the remarks made by the EOS Committee. I would like to invite the Council of State to reflect a little bit about it. Does the Council of State see that there is reason to make sure that there is no development of unculture when it comes to regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e486	I hope it hasn't been a culture to fix the code, but we have some issues that show that we have understood the code differently. So it's important that we and PST deal with the criticisms of the EOS Committee and clear up the situation, so that this is exercised in line with what has been the intent of the Storting. Should PST need new tools or new homes, we're going to present it to the Stortinget, and it's the Stortinget that's making that decision. I'm going to be very careful to say what things have been like, but in my dialogue with the PST after I got to the Ministry of Justice and Defence, this has been a topic – having a good dialogue. It's important that the PST get an opinion on issues that can end up with criticism. It is not to protest, but to explain and inform the matter. But we have to deal with the criticism that is coming. My impression, based on a very short time, is that the dialogue is good, and that the PST takes that criticism seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e493	I meant first of all to focus on the fact that the PST in the last two major issues we've had, initially defended the action on which there is a basis for criticism. I would like to remind you of – although it was before this Council of States – the report that was about the surveillance of air passengers. In this connection, we were told by the EOS Committee that they had problems accessing the facts that would lead to the assessment of the job that was done. So after that, there's a new case, about registration of deposit representatives, where the PST initially disagrees with the understanding of the EOS Committee. That's what I'm asking if the Council of State sees that there's reason to have a special attention on, now that she's been given the responsibility for the PST.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e499	Those things are a little different, I'd say. It is right that the PST in both cases defends its procedure. That may not be so strange, because they do a job that they think is in line with the practice and the laws and regulations we have. But it should not be difficult to get into dialogue and get information. That dialogue needs to be improved, and this has been a theme in my dialogue with PST. My impression is that this is what they're taking seriously, and that they're trying to do it. When it comes to registering big business representatives, I would like to say that the PST is very clear that they are experiencing that foreign powers are engaged by representatives who are part of friendship groups. And it is important that the PST can provide advice and guidance to the representatives, but it should not be done by registration. It shall be carried out in a different and safe manner. That's what PST has to take over, and that's what they've changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e506	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e511	In fact, today is an important day for the EOS services. The annual notification of the EOS Committee is dealt with in Stortinget, as is the new Intelligence Services Act. We rely on good intelligence and security services to live in a secure society. However, this work must be carried out in accordance with our principles of the rule of law. To succeed, two key mechanisms must be in place, namely a good legal framework and independent control. The new Intelligence Service Act and the annual report of the EOS Committee are key examples here. It is true, as the EOS Committee writes in its annual report, that we refer to and underline the central role of the E-service control body in the preparatory work as a new intelligence service law. If you apply to the EOS committee in the billing proposal, you get 272 hits. The committee believes that we refer to them in the legal work as a protective mechanism. It's a picture I want to nuance a little bit. On the one hand, the sample can be called a ‘security mechanism’ because, based on the legitimate protection needs of the EOS services, they control services on behalf of society. In this respect, it is important that we have confidence both in the fact that conditions are being set up for good control, and that control is being exercised well. At the same time, I fully agree that the sample can never guarantee that faults or critical conditions can occur in the service. It's the administration's responsibility. However, the sample also plays an important role here, because although the control exercised is initially random, it also has a very important disciplinary function in the day-to-day work of the service. The EOS Committee criticises in its annual e-service that the service has failed to provide information on a tool for compiling information on the counter-terrorism of the service. The integration tool includes information on Norwegian foreign fighters. The sample states that no effective control of the processing of information by the service on the Nordics can be carried out unless the sample is aware of all systems, registers and tools where such information is processed. I take the criticism of the highest seriousness. The intelligence service shall bring about everything that may affect the control of the EOS Committee. This includes disclosing new activities within the control of the sample. In a letter to the Ministry and in the annual report, the committee raised the question of the privacy of dead people. The committee believes that there are good reasons why dead people should be subject to personal data protection under the Intelligence Act, in the same way as under the Police Register Act. We have assessed the issue in the work of a new intelligence service law. In our opinion, the considerations justifying the protection of the personal data of dead persons in the Police Register Act, in particular the consideration of the descendants of the deceased, do not apply to the activities of the E-service to the same extent. The e-service has no tasks related to criminal prosecution, and only a sparse circle will be familiar with data processed. In addition, this will mainly apply to the personal data of foreign citizens. Finally, the EOS Committee will have new tasks under the new Intelligence Services Act. The legislative proposal is based on a premise that the sample must be allocated resources to enable it to meet this task. We have based our own estimates on the legislative proposal, and I want to take the opportunity to stress the importance of the Storting following up on this in its budgets for the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e526	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e543	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 10 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes, the Red Party 5 minutes and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The representative of the Bears Moxnes has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e552	I would like to justify our proposal for a postponement. Norway has been in an exceptional state in the last few months. The Storting has had its hands full of dealing with the coronary crisis. At the same time, Stortinget has been dealing with a legislative proposal that results in the most comprehensive monitoring of the population ever. The new law will have a major impact on the population, especially for minorities and vulnerable groups, who have had limited opportunity to influence the Storting in the previous months. Important and important input has been received from a wide range of hearing bodies, including NIM, the Data Protection Agency and a wide range of both press and freedom of expression organisations. They warn against mass surveillance and how it will have a cooling effect on freedom of expression, weaken source protection and also weaken people's confidence in intelligence and the state. It is rare for us to see as clear input from as different hearing bodies as this, without the recordings having any implications for the current legislative proposal. In addition, we notice that there are two important issues about the legality of just mass surveillance laws, both in Sweden and in England, which are currently being dealt with in the European Court of Human Rights. Judgments are expected to be given soon. We should have time to wait for the results from there before we deal with the matter, we believe. The majority of the Committee, and therefore the majority of the House, say that they take source protection seriously. If they think so, the matter should be postponed, so that we can properly address the crucial questions of how to protect the source. Red will vote against the mass monitoring that the law imposes. Once there is a majority in the Storting to monitor the masses of our own citizens, we should at least protect freedom of expression and the protection of sources. We must recognise that the Storting will not achieve if we adopt this proposal of law today. Therefore, Red proposes that the Storting postpone the handling of this matter, and I refer to our loose proposal that has been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e567	A proposal has been made for the matter to be postponed. If there is a wish to comment on the postponement proposal, the President will be able to do so. Then the president gives the floor to Michael Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e574	The proposition we're dealing with today, namely Prop. 80 L, was presented to the Stortinget on Thursday 23 April, and was consequently approved in the minutes distributed to the Foreign and Defence Committee on the same day. The Committee then agreed, at its first ordinary meeting, on a plan of progress, unanimously. As part of its work, the Committee held two separate consultations on Thursday 28 May. The rapporteur's observations were available on Friday 29 May. The other deadlines have been met by the Committee and its individual members. The Committee then gave its opinion on 8 June, and the matter has been referred to the committee for ordinary consideration here today. In other words, all the internal deadlines set by the Committee at an early stage for progress have been met, without anyone thinking it would be too bad a reflection time. I noticed that the representative of Moxnes used the argument that he did not like the content of the law. But then the answer is not that you take it off the table today. It is better to get involved in the regulations and the various proposals contained in the law. I can understand that one representative has a lot to attend on committees that are not included, but others have. We're just in one committee, too. I have noticed that the secretariat of the representative Moxnes is very well equipped with seven advisers, and I guess there is nothing in the corona times that suggests that you cannot get into the matter well. In addition, I would also like to add that the proposition also has a history, namely by a draft consultation which became clear on 12 November 2018, in which all the interested hearing bodies have been given their opinions and have in fact also met on many points in the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e587	Since this is a debate on the process, I am really only taking the floor to support the rapporteur's presentation of the process. It's not just the government and the government's big parties that agree on what it's been like. I would also like to say on behalf of the Workers' Party that the process that the case rapporteur has now outlined is correct. It was unanimous in the committee. We have not had many protests about how the process has been. It's been clean. We have the opportunity to discuss this law from the hearings we have had, from the recording round we've had, and also from the hearings that the ministry has conducted, which are in the billing process. So I just took the word to explain that the Workers' Party is going to go to deal with this law today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e594	The centre party is not going to vote to postpone matters either, but I think it's in its place to say that there's only been a week since one of them had their case spokesperson's proposal to the committee, is short on a big deal, and it's demanding for those of us who aren't so many in the committee, or are not in the committee. So I understand that one can think about it. I've told you about that in the committee, and I also think it's okay that I tell you about it here. Because in such big cases, it might be a good thing for you to set up a little bit more time. But it is also true, as was said by the case spokesman, that there was a hearing draft out there, and several of us have at least partially considered the matter before she came from the government, because there are major questions involved in the matter, and that is, of course, free for everyone to do. So I don't want to say that it's irresponsible in any way. The case spokesman has done a brilliant job. I also mean that we have received an answer to the questions we have asked and asked in the process. It's important – in relation to maybe other things where it's harder to get answers to what you've wanted. So the central party is not going to support this proposal for postponement today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e603	Just to clarify the position of the Advance Party: we agree with those who have spoken and who do not want the matter to be postponed. We believe it is subject to thorough treatment. The rapporteur has made a solid effort. It is a solid document for consideration. We see no reason for the matter to be postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e608	We in SV's group have completed our treatment and are ready to decide on this. But I would also like to say that it has happened quickly – this is a big case, where it would have been desirable to have a little longer time. That is also why we are there that we have promoted two solutions today, which we ideally should have had in the setting, but this is sometimes the case when the time is short. But I think, given that whole, that such a message from one of the smallest groups is something to absorb, so we'll vote in favour of the proposal for postponement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e613	The Christian People's Party has evaluated privacy, the legal process and the observance of democratic principles in this matter quite thoroughly, because these are important things. We see no reason to postpone the matter, and we support the rapporteur's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e618	In that case, the batches have clarified their position on the method of treatment. The President refers to Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, which states: «Proposal for a deferral of the case to a later Grand Summit must be brought to the attention of the President without delay and decided upon by the President.» The President then decides that the matter will be dealt with on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e631	The new law on intelligence applies, just as the law it supersedes, which dates back to 1998, to military foreign intelligence. The law differs from the previous one by describing the methodology more transparently. At the same time, it's made more technology neutral. But the assignment is the same. It is to identify external threats – outside Norway, but targeting our state and our society. Let's also remember that foreign intelligence is dealing with far more prosaic problems in its everyday life. They are based on open sources that can provide a basis for analysis and decision support for our authorities. As Norway is part of the digital world society, attacks on Norway, our institutions and individuals will be possible. The country needs to keep an eye on cross-border electronic signal traffic, even if something would affect addressees in Norway. The quantities of data stored will not be available without specific target searches or individual searches based on the defence mission of the service. In other words, the E-service has legal and legal access, based on its location as part of the Defence Service, to investigate details of intelligence. In order to gain access to mass data, the Storting is now setting up a legal protection system to protect normal Norwegian network users, whether individuals, organisations, businesses or media, and therefore their sources, against such undesirable transparency. Technically-emphasised filters are also established to shield away information between domestic users, even if the signals cross borders for technical reasons. Secondly, the E-service will also need a prior authorisation from Oslo to obtain concrete data collected. We have to add that there will be a subsequent check at the EOS committee, which we know from over 20 years of work, and which has recently been evaluated very positively. This EOS committee, which reports directly to the Stortinget, is also provided with more instruments to intervene through applications for Oslo District Court if there is method use or practice that they believe is not proportionate to the Intelligence Act. This is in addition to the traditional back-testing we have experience with from the sample. One important aspect of this law is the setting of actual and legal boundaries between the foreign intelligence service activities and common criminal prosecution in Norway, which is thus the aim of regulating the behaviour of citizens and which is, in a deep sense, a police task. At the same time as the legislative decision is now being taken, the Committee has agreed on a common evaluation point, which means that, after four years of full operation, when all aspects of the law are active, it will be possible to return to the Storting with the experience of such an evaluation. The reason is that we're going into an unknown country. There is reason to listen to anxious voices about what this might have of effects, both those we anticipate, and those we can't easily predict today. As we have experience that when new methods are used, it is often difficult to imagine that they are being taken in again, unharmed or turned away from them, it is important that we already say today that – well, we had the right to take a learning from experience beyond what indicates good processing that one has thought through, so that the Storting as legislator is given the opportunity to decide whether there are aspects that will need to be adjusted in the interest of privacy. We see more clearly than before that what was originally referred to as an information highway to the world that surrounds us, at the same time is a way into us, not just with information, but with malicious software that is suitable for shutting down institutions and social organizations, even though they themselves do not perceive that they are communicating with the outside world. There may be control systems that are hacked with significant damage potential. It is not without reason that the cyber domain has recently been defined as an independent domain of defence planning. It has also been felt that hybrid techniques have been developed to influence negatively targets other than those that could traditionally be defined as legitimate attacks in a war. The defence's traditional mission is state security. That's still the case. Although the E-Service is part of the Defence Organisation and is subject to the Secretary-General's overall governance, the E-Service will have more touch points with general social security. We also look forward to a communication on social security that will be submitted later to the Stortinget, where we can also come back to some of the overlapping issues that will always be between the PST and the Intelligence Service. We are also concerned that there is a clean and clear relationship between the police tasks and the PST and those who are to look after Norwegian citizens in their everyday lives and fight crime, and the foreign information gathering to reveal threats or threats against the Norwegian State. There are two very different missions, so you have to be aware of the points of contact that make one floor impossible to use as one extended arm by the other. Finally, I would like to say that the Committee, or the Stortinget, has agreed to make a clarification, not least in the light of the input from organisations that are particularly concerned about privacy. We have put in a reminder that when pursuing a goal search, it should of course be linked to a valid input criterion – not in the sense that we put something special into it other than what is stated in the proposition, but in order to be a reminder to the officials who are now using this law in daily life, that there should be no inconsequential criterion for such a goal search, and that later, under, for example, the subsequent verification may explain how this provision has been handled. In the outer zones of the law, I will also make the Stortinget aware that we have taken out a paragraph. It is an outer zone in the sense that it does not have so much to say for intelligence, but it was of such a content that it instructed the prime minister to meet with the Council of State each year. It's probably nice, and it's already happening, even with the E-manager present, but the committee has been reluctant to legislate on such a scheme, precisely because it can create uncertainty about the other and well-integrated information lines that exist between the Council of State and the Council of State. It shall be such as to promise information obligations to the Storting through the ordinary channels, not by formal meetings, nor when the formal meetings are statutory. To cut off any confusion about this, we have taken the paragraph out in agreement with the parties involved. Then you can continue to carry out the meetings you wish for for the future. We have freedom of assembly and assembly in this country. I look forward to the debate, and I will end by saying to my committee colleagues that it has been exciting to work, and I feel that although there are five out of seven who carry the whole law through, there is a unanimous committee behind all the chapters except for that with the organized collection in Chapters 7 and 8. And we understand each other's dilemmas. It has made it easier to cooperate with such an overall position as we have done in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e665	It says in the paper that we are now launching a mass monitoring of Norwegian citizens with cooling effect and purpose slipping. It sounds very dangerous and stupid. After all, there are no democratically elected politicians in this national assembly who could be too much of a deal like that. When something immediately sounds negative, it pays to ask, what's the point here? Isn't it much more pleasant just not to adopt a new e-law? Today's e-law is from 1998. Think back to then. One might call me old-fashioned, but I think Norway before was fine, me. Norway struck Brazil. Space Invaders, E-Type and Trine Rein were on the hit lists. Those who had a cell phone had Nokia 3610. It was six years before Facebook was launched. Our e-law is from then on. The world isn't like that anymore. Since then, the security landscape, technology development and human rights considerations and privacy have changed dramatically. The same applies to Norway’s need for independent intelligence and terrorist access to digital aids, to call it that. In the previous period, I dealt with the messages that came from the EOS Committee, which we discussed here earlier today. The selection and the human beings that make up it are the very bearer of why our security system works. The EOS committee is working hard, it's working hard, it's protecting us from unintentioned breaches from the secret services. I'm absolutely sure that the way they work, has in itself created a sense of who the services are for, namely us. Anyway, it was when I realized that there was a need for an adjustment in the e-law to make it work. When I suggested in 2017 that we get a new e-law, it was because I thought it was necessary – not because I was so concerned about monitoring, but because I was concerned about security. For me, one of the main points with a new e-law is that at Stortinget we describe the means to use the e-service, and therefore also the possibilities for control over whether it is being followed. Therefore, the Stortinget order was at the time a revised e-law assessing the scope of control of the EOS Committee. When the bill from the government came to Stortinget for the first time, that was not what we had ordered. That bill was sent out at the hearing in November 2018. There was considerable criticism, and it was deserved. Following the consultation round, the legislative proposal has been adjusted, with a greater emphasis on privacy and the control of intelligence services. It has been crucial for the Workers' Party when we had to decide on this proposal. Accepting intelligence means accepting intervention without war, enemies and threats would say no. It's a balance every time, and that trust is vulnerable. Therefore, it is essential that the E-service providers have been contacted, that they be carefully checked and that they are balanced against the necessity of each individual case. Asked the question ‘Do you want the Norwegians to be monitored by mass?’, everyone will answer no. Luckily, that's not the question here. The e-service is not allowed to collect intelligence from Norwegian citizens in Norway. The focus is on the rest of the world. There will be an exceptional situation in which some metadata from the North will be part of the analysis of the E service. In such cases, it shall be subject to the approval of the Court of Justice. For the Workers' Party, the possibility of control has been crucial – it and an immediate evaluation to avoid errors from the start. I am therefore very pleased that everyone agreed not only to evaluate the law from the outset and to present results after four years, but also that the evaluation should assess resources, competences and instruments at both the EOS Committee and the courts. They cannot only be given the responsibility to check whether the law is being complied with, without taking responsibility for enabling them to do so, economically, technologically, competently and professionally. That's why we haven't gone into comments that point to specific areas that need to be evaluated, because we're assuming that it's the whole law that needs to be evaluated, right from the start, with all the paragraphs, all the consequences, all the pitfalls and all the effects. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their thorough work. I am very happy that adjustments have been made, especially in Section 5-1. By changing from ‘reason to inquiry’ to ‘substantial reason to investigate’, it becomes apparent that the intelligence service is not to obtain information for inconsequential reasons. It is important for effective judicial control and trust. The supply of surplus information and the prohibition of proof in criminal proceedings shall be prohibited. It also applies to better regulation of the processing of personal data for intelligence purposes. That's good. It is important to protect democratic values such as privacy and the media's source protection. That's the whole point. That's what we need to protect ourselves from. The legislative proposal takes this into account here, and it explicitly prohibits the collection of Norwegians in Norway. This is a law for foreign intelligence, and the network activity of the Nordics is not its mandate. It is only when Norwegians communicate with threat actors abroad that traffic data can be captured and analysed, and that is a relatively rare phenomenon. Specific rules have been laid down for the management of confidential communications by the intelligence service with specific professionals. This also applies to journalists, who have the right to remain silent about the identity of sources of information. The threshold for interference with the source protection system will be subject to judicial review. That's good. I understand that it is possible to be concerned about purpose glare, but purpose glare would have been a crime. If we take it for granted that the E-service intends to break the law, that court approval and control are not to be trusted, that continuous and subsequent control carried out by the EOS Committee or the Ministry of Defence's administrative management and control of the E-service is not to be trusted – you know what, then we have a much bigger democratic problem than having to live with an analogue foreign intelligence. The legislative assembly cannot premise in the debate that executive power will break the law adopted. The structure we've chosen for controlling the secret services is unique, and we'll be proud of it. Since the ‘Norwegian model’ is busy, I would call it a trust triangle between services, control and people. The trust between the E-service, the EOS Committee and people, through the Storting, is crucial for the e-service to be able to do what we depend on it to do. But can't we just leave it alone? It's stress. War isn't what it once was. It's global, and it's digital. It is not carried out with one attack that is won or lost, it is carried with many small, different attacks that together do great damage and lead to destabilisation. States are conducting an ongoing power struggle on data. Data are stolen from businesses and the public sector – just ask Hydro and Health South-East about it. The various attacks always go through a number of servers in different countries, and we will also be affected. We can become part of the global digital power struggle, and we are today an easy victim to countries that will hurt us, or that will steal from us. We're going to be honest about what this law is for, but then we have to be honest about what it isn't. It is e.g. not the 1950s Workers' Party. The e-service will not monitor the communication of Norwegian citizens. It includes patient and health information, communication between journalists and sources or between lawyers and clients. The e-service is not the police, it's not the POT, and Frank Bakke-Jensen is not Haakon Lie. So the e-service doesn't have to catch up on what people say online. It shall capture the communication between a Norwegian and a non-resident unit, but not what is written. If what is written is checked, it shall be checked by the courts. Now, following the Committee's adjustments, the Workers' Party believes that the law has become what the Stortinget has asked for: an updated and revised intelligence law aligned with the possibility of control and up-to-date homes. The legal text itself discusses the concerns of human rights and privacy. It will strengthen Norway’s intelligence and our ability to detect and counteract espionage, sabotage, terrorist acts and other threats to national security interests. I look forward to the evaluation. Should it turn out that there is one case of slippage, one purpose slippage, one crime, I will be the first to respond, because there is a breach of the contract. We trust the E service to protect us. Then they must prove themselves worthy of that trust every day. I have every reason to believe that they will, but I'm the first one to look at it if they shouldn't, because the goal of the E-service isn't monitoring, it's our security.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e722	The law we are about to adopt today is important in order to safeguard Norwegian citizens and interests against, among other things. digital threats. As the situation is today, in Norway we have no control over the forces that want to harm our society through the digital domain. Therefore, it is already important, initially, to underline the importance of an effective intelligence service that can identify and counter external threats aimed at the independence and security of the empire. With organised procurement, we are opening up more opportunities for the e-service to find and follow up communication between people and organisations that intend to harm our society. Ordinary people are exposed to identity thefts every day, businesses are robbed of secrets, and public bodies are exposed to data breaches. Unfortunately, we have seen several examples of outsiders stealing large amounts of personal data and driving direct sabotage against digital infrastructure. This law will finally provide Norway with a tool to improve the digital security of both national and individual citizens. Foreign actors, both hostile states and criminal organisations and terrorists, are becoming increasingly active in the cyber domain. It is therefore absolutely necessary to have a defence against these threats. It is important to have a system capable of identifying, isolating and possibly pursuing the actions of the threat actors. Today, Norway is open to external threats. We have little or no opportunity to prevent attacks on Norwegian digital infrastructure. We therefore depend entirely on the fact that neighbouring countries or allies provide us with information about upcoming or active attacks against Norwegian targets. With the new e-law, we will also be able to assert sovereignty in the cyber domain. The target group for organised procurement is foreign actors, so it is not Norwegian citizens in Norway. However, the legislative proposal clarifies that it is not contrary to the law that information on persons in Norway will be able to follow through on the organised procurement of persons abroad. Furthermore, it is also clarified that bulk raw data can be obtained even if information on persons in Norway could be followed. The proposal allows the e-service to obtain and store large amounts of metadata on electronic communications across the Norwegian border. As Norwegian communication largely crosses the border, strict restrictions and control mechanisms are proposed. Search in stored metadata requires permission from Oslo District Court, and the service cannot obtain and store content data until the court has approved it. Stored metadata shall be deleted at the latest after 18 months. It is also proposed that the EOS Committee carry out ongoing monitoring. As part of this verification, Oslo shall be given the right to object to illegal collection at the request of the EOS Committee and any unlawful information obtained shall be deleted. In order to avoid abstinence, it is proposed to prohibit the supply of surplus information and the prohibition of proof in criminal proceedings. However, surplus information may be provided in so far as it is necessary to prevent a serious risk to the life, health or freedom of a person, or a person being wrongly accused or convicted of a criminal offence. The role of the EOS Committee will be affected by the introduction of the new law. Any new control tasks will require a review of the control activities and priorities of the sample and, if necessary, the sample will return to the Storting after having gained new experience. It is necessary to consider practical approaches to the location and form of controls in a technically and safely sound manner. For very many people, privacy is very important and a theme that creates commitment. No one wants to live in a surveillance society, regardless of whether or not something has been done wrong. It is therefore important to protect the freedom of Norwegian citizens to communicate freely between themselves. And so it's also reassuring to see the clarifications in the law of these points. In addition, the exercise of the rights of the monitor is important. The Court of First Instance shall, after receiving an application, appoint a lawyer who shall respect the rights of individuals and the interests of society in the matter. Both the Intelligence Service and the Special Lawyer may appeal against the judgment of the court. The Progress Party supports the proposal for a new law and believes that it effectively respects privacy while helping to strengthen privacy through better protection of personal data and protection of digital infrastructure. It is important for the Progress Party that Norway as NATO has the same protective measures digitally as our allies. This makes it easier to interact and cooperate to stop common threats. A chain is never stronger than the weakest link, and Norway must not be this link. The introduction of new law for the Intelligence Service entails new procedures and practices in the judicial system and in the functioning of the service. Therefore, it will also be necessary to carry out an independent evaluation of the new Intelligence Services Act. The evaluation shall be public and shall be available no later than four years after the entry into force of the law. It's important. In conclusion, when we adopt this law today, we are making great progress to secure both the nation and the people against future attacks. In fact, it is appropriate for the country's legislative assembly in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e754	The new laws on the Intelligence Service – or the E-service, which we also use to say – that we are now debating, are repealing the laws of 1998. There has been a huge digital development in the last 20 years, and many of the issues we have to discuss today were not even issues when the previous laws were adopted. That, I'd say, the representative Jette F. Christensen has given us a good picture in his post. There have also been major changes in the security policy image over these years. A strong national defence is far more important than in the long run, and the digital space, the cyberspace, cross-border communication, has been given a completely different place in securing Norway's interests in the security policy image and ensuring a good defence of our country. In short, the security policy situation in our neighbourhood is much worse. The report Focus, published by the Intelligence Service in February of this year, points to ever-increasing Russian military capabilities, pointing not only to the build-up of the known capabilities, but also – and we need to take more into account, perhaps especially those at my age – that technological developments are more than tanks and planes. What is perhaps the hardest thing to fight against, we don't see, what is going on everywhere in society and between countries, but we don't see. In the view of the Centre Party, the Norwegian E-service is an important part of defence policy, and they, like others, must have access to tools that enable them to solve particularly demanding tasks on behalf of all of us and the nation. The aim of the laws will be to contribute to ensuring the sovereignty of Norway, territorial integrity, democratic governance and other national security interests. The law shall also help to ensure confidence and to ensure the basis for the control of the intelligence service and to ensure that the operation is carried out in accordance with human rights and other fundamental values of a democratic society that we have. One of the main objectives of the reform is to give the intelligence service a secure legal foundation, especially in relation to the development of human rights. The absence of a new law could have had negative security implications for Norway. Norway may be identified as a safe haven for criminal networks and other state and non-governmental actors if the country becomes the weakest link in the Nordic region. And we could easily have been. Our neighbouring country Sweden, Denmark and Finland all have a corresponding law. Today, the Norwegian E-service needs to ask our neighbouring countries for information from them, which for several reasons is not an optimal solution. Of course, Norwegian interests are not given priority over their own national interests. Nor will it be a major task for other countries to search for barges directly against our country, and it can give us a false assurance if we are not going to make it very easy for our neighboring countries to do so on behalf of us. Nor is there any Norwegian control mechanism today that can be followed by search by intelligence services from other countries, but through the laws passed today, the Norwegian State can control and succeed the E-service to a much greater extent, and that is important. So the central party sees that the laws are needed, and that the content of the laws is important. But we also share the concerns about the border against privacy, which has been raised by several hearing authorities, and which is an ongoing debate in public space and in the media. This is a difficult balance between security on one side and freedom on the other. There are especially important arguments on both sides, one cannot be quite sure of how this law will shape our society in the future. It has also been of fundamental importance to the Central Party that the law of committee management has been an additional framework vis-à-vis the Government's proposal and that the control bodies are strengthened. Access to adequate skills can be a bottleneck in what we have and is the biggest question of discussion in the laws, simply arranged for collection. It applies to all stages of such a collection of information. The system of organised procurement will require the addition of many professionals with a high level of competence and experience both from the operational side and from the control side. They must be able to be made sure, and we know that that competence and those people are lacking in the Norwegian labour market. The centre party therefore believes that the new e-lova must monitor through the development of high-level education and relevant competences. The EOS selection and their work is a basic pillar to ensure control of the secret services, and they do a great deal of work on behalf of the Storting. Independent control body is crucial to ensure that privacy is properly protected. And then there's something called "it doesn't depend on where you're standing, but where you're sitting," when it comes to what one means about different things. Yes, let's all influence. For this reason, it is preferable for the controller to make the most of the controls to be applied from the EOS selection its own local selection, as desired by the selection itself. There may be some limitations to what is technically possible and security taken care of, but here the E-Service must contribute to safe communication and secure remote access for parts of the service’s systems. Organised procurement is something completely new, and it must therefore be stressed that it will require a strengthening of financial resources. There is currently no certainty as to the extent to which there will be, both the number of cases and the scope of controls, as well as the workload of the control bodies. It's also uncertain what will be the total cost. But with new and demanding tasks, both the EOS selection and the rights of things must be able to add more people with the necessary skills, some of them now in the preparatory phase. For this reason, the Central Party is particularly pleased that the majority subscribes to our proposal to ensure that the Presidentship of the Stortinge in the annual budgetary management processes must assess the needs of the EOS Committee for its competence and resources, and that the government must follow up the courts in the same way. For the Center Party it has been important to frame the promises further. It is important to prevent the laws from having a cooling effect on freedom of expression in the Norwegian community. People should be able to express themselves freely about what they wanted in Norway. A prohibition on the supply of surplus material is important in order to prevent target glare. It has also been important for the Centre Party to review and carefully evaluate the laws and all established systems after four years — whether the objective has been achieved and whether the system has adapted to technological developments. The factors we need to look at here are, among other things. the degree of cooling down, and whether there is such a degree in Norwegian society, the extent to which the control functions are functioning properly, and the effect of the E-service tool and how it can help in their work, which is of course the whole purpose of the law. Finally, I would like to point out the important role Oslo has in connection with new e-laws. As the first control body, the district court must have particular knowledge of the facts and, in the view of the centre party, it must be required that even if it should fall on a Sunday or a holy day, the district court, which otherwise has jurisdiction, must be prepared to take the necessary decisions. That was the starting point for a proposal from the Centre Party to the Committee. Now it is incorporated in the decision of the majority, i.e. to facilitate access to the courts. This is not a small matter. This is a very big and important matter. Too many people can talk about metadata and technological systems in a distant way. Therefore, it is so important that the case-speaker and the committee have worked hard on the matter, even if it happened a little quickly at the end, and it is important that we follow closely the development of this law in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e784	The e-service has an important task on behalf of all of us, and with the legislation adopted today, they get a new and relevant law to work from, and that's good. Much of the debate is linked to one point of considerable controversy, and there is the point of so-called organised procurement, which in practice means the establishment of a system with a significant monitoring capability, which will also affect Norwegian citizens, when metadata from cross-border information are to be stored out and inside Norway. Then I would say that we understand the intelligence service's desire for new tools. Here's some real dilemmas. I would also like to say that I am pleased that the majority of the rapporteur today acknowledges the dilemmas. I think that this debate is marked by a mutual understanding that we have to make a balance between considerations that on both sides are burdensome. As I heard from the Workers' Party's articles, that if you assume that mistakes and oversteppings cannot happen, I would say that I disagree with that in principle. I think we have to assume that mistakes and oversteppings can happen, and that it has to be part of the assessment both related to whether we are in favour of organized procurement, and, if it comes into place, as it seems, what kind of framework we get in place around it. In SV we believe that the strong warnings that have come must be taken seriously. It's about privacy. In particular, the Data Protection Authority has raised strong objections in the consultation round. It is about freedom of expression in the sense that the voices that claim that we can have a cooling effect for some in our public democratic change of words are an important concern. And then it's about source protection and the press's strong objections to source protection. All of this is part of the discussion on how to ensure that there is a need for trust in the activities of the Intelligence Service and the necessary trust between citizens and authorities. How do we make these balances in a way that takes account of and maintains that trust? In that weighting, the SVs group has ended up going towards the planned procurement. Then we see that we're likely to get the majority against us. This is why we are also promoting some secondary proposals relating to the way in which organised procurement is to be carried out. We propose to make some changes to the order for an evaluation, so that it becomes clear that an evaluation must address in detail the objections that have been raised in relation to cooling, related to source protection, etc. and assess the impact this instrument has had on it. As the law is now proposed, it is the department which is to decide whether an information which may reveal a source can nevertheless be dealt with, because security concerns outweigh the press's source protection. We believe that it will give greater security to the Court of Justice decide this. That is why we have proposed it. It has been promoted as a loose proposal. There I would like to say that I do not think it is ideal to promote legislative proposals like solving proposals, that is a result of the fact that there has been a somewhat hasty process. I would say that this is not the ideal way to do it, but we have come to the conclusion that it is most correct that we now have the proposals we think it is important to deal with. So I think, in conclusion, that it is important that we all stress the Committee's common call for the presidency to ensure that the EOS Committee is able to do the important job they are about to do, and that means having sufficient competence and resources to do it in a good enough way. I would like to address the suggestions on which SV is included in the vote, and the two solutions that have been distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e803	The representative Audun Lighthouse has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e808	Freedom requires that every human being be protected against unnecessary registration, monitoring and interference in private life. In liberal democracy, it is citizens who control the state, not the state that controls the citizens. There must be serious reasons for the protection of privacy to give way. Therefore, the Left will ensure that everyone has the right to privacy even in a digital everyday life. In recent years, we have seen more and more intervention in people's digital everyday life, and this has been done through restrictions on which web pages you can visit the Internet, extended the practice of storing IP addresses, and not least that the police have been given extended powers to operate with phone listening and screen reading. Unfortunately, the law has been dealt with too quickly. In the middle of other important discussions, the largest intervention in Norwegian privacy in several decades has been largely ignored in silence. That's regrettable, because if there's a bill that deserves a solid public debate, it's the Intelligence Act. Despite the rapid treatment, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the very thorough and inclusive committee procedure. The efforts made by the rapporteur also show that this is an important matter at the heart of our political values: how do we emphasise security against freedom? What's a proportionate interference in people's privacy? Today we are debating the government's proposal for a new law on intelligence. The old law is out of date, and we need a new intelligence service framework that follows social development and sets a clear framework for the functioning of the service. Although we are discussing a comprehensive legislative proposal today, chapters 7 and 8 deserve the most attention, the chapters dealing with what we call ‘organised procurement’, an euphemistic expression that could be described in favour of being described as it is: digital mass monitoring. The Left State Councils have taken this one against organized procurement, and in committee proceedings I have made it clear on behalf of the Left Coalition that we are behind this gap of our state councils. Digital mass monitoring is and becomes a massive interference in people's privacy, and there's nothing to suggest that this intervention is relative to what we think it will solve. We are not only afraid of the narrowing down of the privacy of Norwegian citizens, we are also concerned about the cooling effect of digital mass monitoring on cross-border communications. We are afraid that much of today's communications on digital platforms are disappearing into channels where no one can follow. We are also concerned about source protection and the effects digital mass monitoring will have on the current level of protection. As Hans-Dietrich Genscher said, the press is the artillery of freedom. And there's no reason why we're going to tie up this artillery today. We are today voting against the decision of Chapters 7 and 8, which deal with so-called organised procurement. Nevertheless, we see from the Committee's attitude that organized procurement is likely to be adopted today. Then it is important for us to frame this as well as possible. We are pleased that the Storting will today adopt an evaluation of organised procurement within four years, and we are concerned that that evaluation will also look at the proportionality of the scheme. But it doesn't look like we're getting the bulk of the population with us on it, and that's a shame, because that's this evaluation we really need. In addition, we are promoting proposals to give the government a new opportunity to ensure ongoing judicial review and thus strengthen source protection. Neither is there a majority in favour of our proposal, but I would urge all the representatives to reconsider the importance of source protection for them in the balance between freedom and security. That is why I would also like to inform the presidency that the Left provides its subsidiary support for SV's loose proposal No. 5, to strengthen source protection. With our proposals, the Left notes that we must always stand on the side of privacy and freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e833	A modern defense needs good intelligence that can reveal and identify hostile activity based on today’s threat picture. That's what the new law is about. The old law on intelligence was passed before the turn of the millennium, and there has been a great development both technologically and in our legal system and in the field of security policy since then. It is necessary to modernise the law as an upgrade of the country's defence. Electronic communications have evolved very widely in all areas of society. The Internet has become an all-rounder in Norway. It gives us all the opportunity to search for information and communicate in new ways. I came to think of 1999, when I got a brochure in the post office saying that now we had to have water and food lying down, because we did not know if the clocks would go after the millennium. So that was the reality just 20 years ago – and that was after the previous law was introduced. During the coronary crisis, we now see that we don't have to travel to meet people, we can do it online, even across borders, and even phone meetings have become old-fashioned. Technological developments offer a wide range of opportunities, but also new vulnerabilities. How, then, are we to protect ourselves from enemy attacks in the digital age, from hacking bank accounts, protecting business secrets and ensuring critical and important technical systems at all levels? How are we to protect ourselves against espionage and computer invasions that reveal military secrets, or sabotage of vital social functions and social systems? In the middle of this, there are two important things: we have to give precise descriptions and orders on how the service is to be performed, but at the same time we have to exercise democratic control. So it's high time we got a new law. An important but controversial instrument is mentioned in Chapters 7 and 8 of the Law. It's about what the so-called Light II Committee called digital border defence. Now it is called the organized procurement of cross-border electronic communications. It is a precise term that is referred to as IT, but then at Stortinget we have the responsibility to make sure that the language does not obscure what it really is about. For the law allows searching in large databases that store electronic communications, bulk raw data. It could reveal dangerous threats and actions from foreign actors, states, terrorist organisations and others. Domestic threats shall remain the responsibility of the police and not of the Intelligence Service. As soon as metadata are collected, stored and evaluated, it is important to prevent improper use. The metadata collection law therefore contains necessary and important procedures and mechanisms to ensure legal certainty, privacy and democratic control. For example, in order to launch a target search, or what is called targeted procurement, the Intelligence Service must seek Oslo District Court and obtain legal authorisation. In the course of the process, the EOS Committee shall exercise control and strengthen its competence and control capacity for this purpose. In addition, in order to check how the new e-law works in practice, from its entry into force, we need to have an independent evaluation of the functioning and control of the law through the courts. The Christian People's Party will both follow in-flight and then follow up on danger signals in terms of both purpose glare, source protection and cooling situation. The Christian People's Party will have a strong defence that can protect us as a state, as a society and as individuals. This requires good intelligence capacity targeting foreign actors who may have hostile actions in their anger. At the same time, intelligence must be under control and not undermine by its methods the values of freedom and the democracy we must defend. This has now been prepared through thorough preparatory, consultation and deliberation. This is how the law balances the two important considerations I mentioned, the defence of the country against external enemies and at the same time the safeguarding of the values of freedom on which our liberal democracy is based. As this balance sheet is maintained, a broad majority has gathered on the Committee's position on new e-laws. We appreciate that. It is also valuable and can further contribute to the widespread trust of the intelligence service in its important activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e850	This proposal for a new e-service law opens up to the most extensive monitoring of the population. The law will have a major impact on the population, and especially on minorities, for vulnerable groups, who have had limited influence on the Storting in the past. That is why Red asked to have the matter postponed. But when the Storting has now gone in to deal with the matter, Red will vote against the mass monitoring that the law imposes, which in a different language is called organized procurement. If the Storting is today to adopt this mass surveillance of the population, we must at least take care to take care of the central aspects of our regime, namely freedom of expression and protection of sources. We must ensure the confidence of the people in the secret services, and we must avoid what the Data Protection Agency, the NIM and a mass press stand warn against, namely serious human rights violations. NIM points out in its call for consultations that the breach of human rights occurs at the time of the gathering of the information. The bodies of the press have also made it clear that the type of judicial review provided for in the law is illusory. It should also take the Biggest seriously. It is also the intelligence manager himself who, in so-called urgent cases, will be given the opportunity to circumvent the rights of property and to search the mass information collected. We will strongly warn against such access. The law also states that it is the Ministry of Defence that can decide when to reveal the source of a journalist. It can't be like that. It must be just the courts that can give that kind of access. Then there are a number of warnings that the law can have a cooling effect on freedom of expression. What we are talking about then is a serious attack on freedom of expression and the absolutely crucial protection of the anonymous sources of the press. Red cannot accept that we sacrifice the central human and constitutional right to privacy, that we do not take care of the protection of sources and freedom of expression, or that people's trust in services is weakened by these changes. This will mean that the hypothetical intelligence results that bulk data collection hope to provide will not be worth much. In red, support the proposal of the members of the Committee on the Left and the SV to ask the Government to come back to the Stortinget with proposals to ensure the protection of sources through judicial review. But before this is dealt with, we cannot allow this law to enter into force in the areas of mass monitoring. It is fully possible to adopt the law, but subject to chapters 7 and 8, which deal with the so-called provision of information, i.e.: mass monitoring, does not enter into force until after the Storting has dealt with legislative changes that can safeguard the protection of sources and freedom of expression. To this end, the Red supports the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the Act on the Intelligence Service, which strengthens the protection of sources and the confidence of the population in the State and which prevent interventions that have a cooling effect on freedom of expression. Chapters 7 and 8 of the Act shall not enter into force until these proposals have been dealt with in the Grand Duchy.» I'll take up Red's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e872	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e878	I am glad that the Stortinget today adopts a new law on the Intelligence Service that is adapted to the time we live in. Intelligence is a cornerstone of Norway’s defence and security. We need intelligence to make the right decisions in a timely manner. Today, we do not have sufficient access to information in the digital space. We are heavily dependent on receiving information from other countries. Cooperation with other countries is important for Norway, but it is also necessary to strengthen our national intelligence capacity. It's important, so we can stand on our own and make decisions based on information we've collected ourselves. This law has been investigated over several years. An important backtrace has been the EOS Committee's 2016 communication, which led to a government decision to initiate legal work. The Act also follows up Stortinget’s 2017 request decision on a new law. The EOS Committee's communication asked questions about the applicable legislation meeting the requirements of human rights at present. The law follows this up and gives the E-service a secure legal base. Another important backbone has been the recommendations of the expert group on the defence of Norway in 2015 and the Lysne II Committee in 2016 – the proposal to establish a form of digital border defence. These recommendations are followed up by the proposal for organised procurement. The main impression of the hearing is that most people see the need for the new law and welcome it. At the same time, several have made critical comments and suggestions for improvement. It is natural that a law like this meets criticism and that there will be shared opinions about it. Our neighbouring countries and other countries that are close to us have experienced the same thing when they have had similar legal processes. Open and bold debate is the strength of democracy; criticism has made the proposal better. We have listened to the hearing bodies and followed up many of the proposals they have made. We've made the law clearer, and we've strengthened the possibilities for control. Some are in principle opposed to the interference in privacy involving the collection of bulk data. I have great respect for that, but I am sure that the law is necessary in a democratic society, and I am sure that the draft law is in line with the fundamental principles and values of a rule of law. Intelligence is essential for Norway’s security, but activities must be carried out within a clear framework determined by the Stortinget. There's a lot about the E-service that needs to be kept secret, but with this law, we show transparency about what we can be open about. It is important in a democracy. Because it's the transparency that builds the trust we need in the work of the E-service to secure Norway and the freedoms, rights and values we set high. With this law, we facilitate this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e897	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e902	As I mentioned in my post, the possibility of control was crucial for the Workers' Party to support this proposal. I heard the Council of State said in his speech that he wanted to strengthen the EOS Committee financially. That's good, and I'll take that as a prerequisite. But my question to the Council of State is: How will he ensure that the EOS Committee and the courts have the resources, competences and means they need to exercise control of the use of this law from the first day?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e909	There is a very good and absolutely central question in the matter. We know that the law is passed, and that the E service is given the opportunity to use a new tool. It's a tool that takes time to build up. It's not like you're pressing a red button on 1 January, and then it's going – fortunately, because it also gives the EOS Committee the opportunity to prepare the control procedures they're going to have and to acquire the skills they need. It also gives the courts the opportunity to judge themselves so that, when organized procurement is in place, we have the apparatus we need for that control, and to build up the confidence we need to have in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e914	I would like to refer to the fleet of chronicles written by the Minister of Defence this year, called ‘No, the E-service does not have access to all digital communications between Norwegian citizens’. It was pretty good. But why has the Minister of Defence not taken greater responsibility in public space to explain what this law really involves, to avoid concerns about mass monitoring, to avoid concerns about purpose-sliding, and to avoid claims made in this Chamber, in which it is easy to disagree? I'm worried about what it does to the opinion if it stalls out. I wonder why the Minister of Defence has not taken a greater responsibility to clear up this debate in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e919	We've been working on this law for a long time. We sent it to the hearing. I see that in some debates I have been shot down because I sent such a wretched bill to the hearing. I am of those who are very pleased that we sent out a bill that created a great deal of commitment. We've been thorough with all the hearings, we've incorporated a lot of the proposals into the law – just to create trust. I believe that this process is part of the best of democracy in Norway. There is one thing that separates in this debate. It is that I believe this is not about mass monitoring. I'm saying it's about mass storage of data. But judicial control, EOS control and the criteria included in the bill, which have improved through the committee procedure – I agree with the representative Christensen in – make us on a safe footing. This is not mass monitoring; it's mass storage. But there is controlled surveillance for various reasons of suspicion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e926	Many people are concerned about source protection. I am, too, and I expect and expect the Minister of Defence to be too. Is there anything that has been said in today's debate about source protection, which the Minister of Defence believes is wrong, or in which he wants to use the opportunity to rectify, for example. with regard to the value of judicial review? It is an example of some of the arguments that have been put forward in the Chamber, and which I will now give the Minister of Defence the opportunity to reply, if he believes that there is something that has been said, that does not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e931	I have great respect for the dilemmas we deal with when we deal with a law and a matter like this. We've tried to get it in as much as we can in the bill. Source protection has two aspects: it is a central mechanism for freedom of expression and our democratic values – the free role of the press. At the same time, ‘source protection’ cannot be a concept used to hide if one is a threat to the nation. Therefore, I believe that the control system we have included in the bill to ensure the protection of sources is the best tool we can create. One should not be able to be a journalist and thus automatically refrain from control. But if you find that it's about source protection, it shouldn't be used. This should not hinder the work of the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e936	This is a brand day in many ways. A new and up-to-date law for intelligence services has been requested and received very well, as far as I am aware, and it is also the additional framework that has now been made in the Stortinget since the government submitted a bill that has also been improved much in relation to the hearing draft which was sent earlier, before the law came into force. It is an important point that the EOS selection should be able to follow the whole process around the E-service, with the help of an organized procurement process. Where to go is also a question that is not clearly answered. Is the Council of State agreed that, as far as possible, the running control of the EOS selection should be carried out outside the local to the E service? And will he contribute to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e943	That's part of the discussion. The counter-argument has been that you can organise even where the E-service works. Technologically, it's easier, and then you've been on whether connecting lines from the E-service and down to where the EOS range is located could increase the risk of leakage. I have no feelings about either that or that – I am absolutely sure that the EOS Committee in its good communication both with the E service and with the Stortinget will be able to promote its views on it, and then I am absolutely sure that we will be able to find a good solution. Remember, the EOS Committee, also from the e-service and from the PST, is perceived as a very good interlocutor, that they have good input into daily operations. I see nothing in the debate we have had about this legislative proposal, which has weakened it – on the contrary, I believe in fact that it has strengthened the cooperation climate between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e948	I thank you for the answer, and I also have to say that it is very nice to stand in a row with the Council of State where we are not disunity about things, but where we are actually looking for the good solutions in layers, in a broad majority in Stortinget. Another important body is the district court and what's going to happen. Of course, there is talk of resources – enough resources to do the job, enough skills. But there's also a question that's not quite well answered. Today, the law is prepared when it comes to judging those who have to be judged for various crimes, for custody over the sacred days, for one to go on with matters. So there's nothing new about readiness, but the Council of State will ensure that the District Court now gets enough resources to be prepared and can handle questions from the E Service even on Sundays, holy days, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e956	I am very concerned that we build confidence in the control system we have there, and then I am also concerned that it should not be such that one should suspect that the request came when the court was closed. I think we should build as good a control system as possible, simply because we depend on our trust in the system we are building.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e961	First I'm going to give the Minister of Defense a little credit, because on the very leading question from the Workers' Party instead of pointing out errors in the critics' arguments, he left it. To me, it's a clear recognition that here it's a recognition that it's not that all counter-arguments are wrong, it's real dilemmas, and then the government has made its balance, and we've done ours. I think that's good, because it provides trust, also that one will deal with the challenges and risks associated with source protection and privacy, in a better way than if one later on as if it's not a problem. My question is related to this with source protection, because as the law is now proposed, it is the ministry that is to decide whether an information which may reveal a source can nevertheless be addressed, because security concerns weigh more heavily. Why can't the government help to pass that decision to the court, when it would obviously create more trust and security for the press?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e968	We believe that we have covered it very well in the bill, with judicial review for search. First, the e-service will have to justify factually a request for permission to search metadata. Then you have to go back to the court with a factually justified enquiry in order to be allowed to search the content data. If it turns out that there is a suspicion that it has a source, it has to be assessed by the department. At the same time, there is a warning obligation for that type, so that the EOS Committee should know about all of these, and be able to look at it. I believe we have hit the problem around it with source protection as best we can, while having a practical methodology around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e973	The cord shift has therefore been completed. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e980	The new Intelligence Act is a very important component of the government's systematic work to safeguard the security of our rich and the security of our inhabitants. This law is crucial in ensuring Norway’s sovereignty, territorial integrity, democratic governance and national security interests in the wider public. The security policy situation in Norway and around the world has deteriorated in recent years, and the Intelligence Service writes in its open threat assessments for 2020: ‘Situation is actively used against Norway and will continue to pose a serious security threat to Norwegian interests in the future. Intelligence activities against policy objectives may also be part of preparation for influence operations. Persistently high damage potential, especially in acute political situations, has an impact.’» The new law strengthens Norway’s self-intelligence and, in concrete terms, our ability to discover, but also to counteract espionage, sabotage, terrorist acts, preparations for attacks and other threats to national security interests. Norway is becoming a safer country with the new Intelligence Act. Most comparable countries today have similar legislation, and it is essential that our e-service also has the opportunity to facilitate searches for metadata acquisition, so that we do not become a blind zone for digital attacks, digital espionage or digital impact operations. After the previous consultation process, the legislative proposal has improved. The borderline between the Intelligence Service and the Police Security Service has improved, and it is increasingly made clear that the mandate of the E Service is foreign intelligence, while the PST is responsible for Norway’s borders. The purpose of the law is not to monitor Norwegian citizens, and it is also reflected in the law with clear and good restrictions to protect the privacy of Norwegian citizens. I can absolutely recommend the party Red to read thoroughly through this document and the chapters dealing with it. Because Norwegian domestic digital communications largely cross the border, strict restrictions and control mechanisms are introduced, and searches in stored metadata require the approval of Oslo District Courts. The service may not collect and store content data until the court has authorised it. The EOS Committee shall carry out continuous checks. As part of this check, Oslo is given the right to object to the cessation of data collection at the request of the EOS Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e998	Today, it is almost impossible to detect the most advanced digital attacks against Norway. Almost all communications to the country take place via the fibre optic cables, which are currently not available to the E-service. Critical infrastructure can be under attack without us being aware of it, and without us having the ability to protect ourselves. We have experienced it – the attack on Health South-East, the attack on Statoil and the attack on Hydro. The cost of these attacks is estimated at several hundred million dollars. If the E-service is to protect the country from digital attacks, it must actually be rigged for it. The e-service must be able to perform targeted searches in electronic communications from abroad. Making Norway open to digital attacks will be the failure of its security and the security of its citizens. We know that China and Russia are very active with their demonstrations of power in the digital space. Lack of access to data traffic to Norway means that we have been commended for the intelligence services of other countries. We need an independent intelligence service to detect and stop digital attacks. The alternative is that Norway becomes a black digital hole, a haven for digital attacks and destructive cyberactivity. The new law is to be governed by legal certainty. It opens up targeted searches from abroad to Norway. The purpose must be clearly defined and must be permitted only by a judicial decision. The person concerned will be appointed a lawyer with special competence. The e-service shall not be able to intervene in any person’s rights without legal support. All interventions must be proportionate so that the possibility of monitoring cannot be misused. The e-service shall be subject to effective control mechanisms and it is of particular importance that the EOS Committee be strengthened in order to fulfil this control function. Finally, this bill balances two important social issues in a hairy way. The first concerns the privacy of citizens and individual rights, and the second concerns the security of the country and the security of its citizens – which is the primary task of the E-service, given by the elected assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1011	This has been a very interesting debate, but I think you actually talk about the heads of ordinary people. You use words and expressions so people don't understand what you're talking about. I think that's a problem at least when it comes to this law. Digitization is faster and faster. It's pretty much better, and we can't stop it in an open, modern society either. Then it is quite natural that the basements or foreign operators also become more digitised and work better. Of course, we need better tools to defend ourselves and stop it. That society gets better, I don't think even the left-hand side or the left-hand side would think it's wrong, and that's why we should do something about this. I'm going to talk about what happens to people who experience this. Accounts are being hacked. I know several people who have had their account hacked from abroad and lost money. There may be a day that becomes personal for those who sit in this room – that they actually lose money in their account. A friend of mine had a will that was hacked by foreign actors. Imagine if you don't have a chance to find those behind it. The day it hits you yourself, you're going to say that we should have a law against this. You get in principle in this room because you talk in big terms that people don't understand, but once you get hit yourself, people will react. Two years ago, there was a notice that the head of the E-service, Morten Haga Lunde, had got his account hacked. It's quite special, but that's what he reported about, and as it looked up in the media. Privacy is important, but I think it's polite when people who are concerned with freedom of expression, privacy and source protection are not concerned that freedom of expression is permanent, that it applies to everyone. The fight against the alternative media is enormous. The fight against Resett, the fight against Document and the fight against HRS is enormous – it is completely fanatical, even though they are engaged in legal activity. Had you been really concerned with freedom of expression and freedom of the press, you would have obviously struggled to give them the opportunity to express their opinion in the same way as mainstream media. It's too hollow if you can't defend alternative media too, so I hope you can start with that – and say that we should have fair freedom of the press and freedom of expression in Norway and protect it. Then I believe what they're actually saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1024	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1041	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, six replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1048	This matter should actually be so to say unanimously presented by the committee in Stortinget. Many members of the Committee have put a lot of effort into doing so, and I would like to thank you for both the goodwill and cooperation of the Committee. But unfortunately it didn't work out. SV, as they tend, is opposed to road development in the West and wants to use autonomous and emission-free ferries on an open seabed, while the Progress Party now, after leaving the government, is willing to build roads without knowing what it costs. The Labour Party and the rest of the Committee – the majority – are quite clear that Rogfast must be built and that work must start as quickly as possible. However, when the Progress Party believes that it is only to initiate the call for tender based on the costs framework of the Storting, but at the same time it sanctifies itself that the government has to come back if it turns out that it is more expensive, yes, then the Workers' Party believes that the Advance Party is irresponsible. We can only take note of the fact that the state council that stopped the project in view of the risk of increased costs has now changed its role and meaning. It shows, in our opinion, that this is a proposal to run a political game. The working party has always been, and will always be, a responsible party. Therefore, we could not go ahead with the proposals of the representatives of the Progressive Party, even if we shared the impatience. The government has spent too much time investigating the question, and it may look like a real withdrawal from the Progress Party's ex-State Council, but that's probably not the case. Now we can only put our trust in the fact that a Minister for Transport who has signaled a great willingness to get back on track with this project is giving gas. When the drivers who travel with the ferry over Boknafjorden have paid pre-claimed tolls since 2013, it is understandable that impatience is great in the West. I can't let you mention that this project does not burden the state treasury to a great extent. One thing is that the value added will increase significantly along the coast, but the state's share of the project covers so far unpaid VAT, so there is room for increased government participation. Now it's only for the council to raise the foot from the brake pedal to the accelerator pedal, but I have to tell the council he has to keep the speed limit – if he understands the picture. Finally, I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1063	E39 Rogfast is an important project that contributes to reducing travel times between Stavanger, Haugalandet and Bergen significantly. It will have a significant impact on the development of the housing and labour market in the region and contribute to increasing the attractiveness of the whole area. It's also a very important national project. Large parts of the export-oriented industry are located in this area, and the value creation taking place here is essential for the whole country and for Norway as a maritime nation. Therefore, there must be no doubt: the E39 Rogfast shall be implemented. In September 2019, the tendering process was cancelled due to significant cost increases. All projects shall be subject to strict cost control and Rogfast is no exception. We therefore believe that it was the right decision of the then Minister for Transport, Jon Georg Dale, to stop the project and implement cost-reduction measures. A letter from the State Council refers to the fact that the State Road Administration considers it unlikely that the project could be carried out within the cost framework. On the contrary, it's very likely that we need to increase the cost framework. In such a situation, it would be irresponsible to start the project without the Storting adopting a new cost framework and deciding on how to finance it. Another procedure would be to waive any possibility of effective cost control. In our opinion, it would be contrary to the Financial Regulations of the Storting to initiate a project which is unlikely to be kept within the given cost framework. The size cannot, in our opinion, oblige the Council of State and the Government to break this regulation, so that the proposal of the Progress Party has no effect, in fact, other than symbol power. That being said, we share the impatience of the proposers and want the E39 Rogfast to be implemented as quickly as possible. But we are not willing to compromise on strict cost control, not for this project and not for other transport projects. Therefore, we have clear expectations that the government and the Council of State will work quickly on this matter and come back to Stortinget as soon as possible. Although it would appear that the cost framework needs to be increased, it is still a transport project with high socio-economic benefits and with a high regional and national importance to be implemented. We're impatient to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1076	It is very regrettable that today we do not reach agreement and majority for start-up and progress on Norway's main and most socio-economic road project. Three years have passed since the Stortinget made its positive decision in the project, and it has been two years since the first ointment was blown up. We want to give the government council an extended authority to manage the project and show the state council that this is a project that Stortinget is behind, as Stortinget wants, and that the Stortinget prioritizes. The fact that the Workers' Party and the Centre do not have that confidence in the Council of State is understandable, but that the government parties are opposed to giving even greater governance and authority to their own councils in the project is worrying. When the State Road Service stopped the project – that is, the State Road Service that stopped the project, not the State Council – it was because they were uncertain at their own expense. They asked for a review of a special contract strategy, which has been used, and this resulted in the State Road Administration providing savings measures of billions of dollars. I am not able with my best will to understand anything other than that the signals coming from the State Road Service now are that they have recovered the cost control and are more concerned about the consequences of a further delay than the costs of the project, because significant changes have been made to the project, with cost-saving measures, implementation strategy and assumptions for the financing arrangement that have brought costs down to a level within the framework decided by the Stortinget when the case was dealt with and adopted. In any case, progress now depends only on the start-up of one of the three major tunnel projects in Rogfast, and this sub-project will not be able to cause costs that exceed the current framework alone. The review from the State Road Service shows that, despite higher costs and somewhat reduced benefits, the project is still intended to have a very high socio-economic profitability, and the State Road Service does not recommend any changes to the concept. So now the Council of State could have obtained the necessary powers immediately, after having felt comfortable with the feedback, and started the project. Unfortunately, that trust in the Council of State has neither the Central Party, the Workers' Party nor the Government, so now the matter has to go back to Stortinget anyway, with increased time use and all the consequences it will have. I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1089	The representative of Terje Halleland has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1094	Rogfast is an important part of the plans for the Free E39 and is a project that the Center Party has been a driver long before it was adopted by Stortinget. The project is important for the whole of the South-West, and it is a project sought by both residents and businesses throughout the region. I believe it is important to establish that there is a broad political consensus on this matter. The project has been in the national transport plan since 2010. Since Stortinget decided to expand in 2017, the work has started, and Rogfast is to be built. There is no point in creating undue uncertainty about whether or not to implement the project. There's an agreement that Rogfast should be built. When doubts were raised about the progress of the project in the proposal, former Minister of Transport Jon Georg Dale first informed that it was necessary to stop the work on the project in order to ‘turn all the stones to find solutions that cut costs so that the E39 Rogfast project can be implemented’. It is also important for the Centre Party to see this in conjunction with the wide-ranging needs for measures to be taken in relation to the plant industry. In this respect, I refer to the reactions of the Head of the National Association of Construction in connection with the submission of the package of measures 3: ‘The fall in the construction industry will lead to reductions in many enterprises in months to come. This crisis package will make little difference.’» Rapid and predictable progress on projects planned and clear, such as Rogfast, will contribute positively to the construction industry. Similarly, deferrals and slower progress will contribute negatively. In addition, there is a danger that longer delays extending beyond the harvest may lead to the loss of the essential competence to build subsea tunnels in the form of redundancies by critically competent staff. Although the Centre Party supports the development and wants rapid progress, we cannot support a proposal that violates the Financial Regulation of the Storting. The Minister for Transport wrote the following in a letter to the Committee: ‘When the project costs forecast is higher than the cost framework adopted by Stortinget, it is my opinion that proposals for a new cost framework must be submitted to Stortinget before further progress can be made in the project.’ The center party stands steady, as we have always done, in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1115	What we are now discussing is strange in several ways. Firstly, a former Council of State agrees to make a proposal to implement a cost-absorbing project for which he sailed put his foot down and got stopped. It was said that it was the State Road Service that stopped it. I have never heard that the state road system, when it comes to such large projects, lives in a political vacuum – I have never heard that. A lot of other curvature jumps are made here, among other things. that the State is to enter the picture in order to guarantee, where appropriate, exceedances, and no longer the county. It's also included here. The progress party will not run an economic pre-war attitude at all – they will only run on, cost what it will cost. A responsible State Council, which follows the laws adopted by Stortingen, can not only start up without the costs being controlled. I expect the ex-government council to also know section 6 of the regulations on the allocation. Now he's not here, so he's not getting any answers, but I think maybe former State Council Jon Georg Dale also knew about Section 6 of the Appropriations Regulation. I think I can say with some certainty that most people in this room today know about SV's view of ferry-free E39 – this project where only the fjord cruises will cost around 190 billion. kr, which is what we will call an environmentally hostile waste project, where the funds should have been used to repair narrow western roads, racial protection and so on. Rather, we should have focused on the development of frequent zero-emission journeys. As the President is probably aware, we have put forward two representative proposals on precisely this subject. They've been voted down both times by the major highway sections here in the hall. I regret that, and I regret it on behalf of all those who for years have to find themselves in these unsafe and narrow roads in the district, among others. in the West. I assume that many Northmen are now going to vacation in the West. They know what it's like to meet just a camper on many of the crowded roads there. I am constantly being told by some representatives that SV does not want roads in the West. It is repeated over and over again – and again. I am now trying to say that we want long and safe roads – not short and wide. SV questions the assumptions on which the socio-economic cost-benefit analyses for Rogfast are based. This applies to both speeds, saved time and traffic base. Then it's great that we have a great referent corps and a video archive, because now I've said it, and it's being archived. And then we'll see how this goes on. I would like to mention another point, which concerns possible private ferry operations, but I will take that up in a later article. I recommend the Committee's proposal for Decision I.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1136	We are discussing the E39, which goes from Kristiansand to Trondheim – it is a long stretch that takes a very long time today. It will go down to about half the time, if you get all the fjord crossings, which, after all, were in the original NTP that was adopted for approx. Three years ago. In the first period of this NTP, the first six years, three fjord stretches are prioritised – it's Rogfast, Hordfast and Møreaksen. The left supports their implementation. Today, it's Rogfast we're discussing. It has its history, which is re-enacted by both the case rapporteur and several – there was a stop last year because the costs were too high and you had to put a foot in the ground. It seems that the left is fair and fair, something other than doing it that way is probably not legal either. We think it could be a healthy project when you go through this again and not least look at the savings and measures needed to bring it down to a good level. So over to SV, which calls for the priorities between the roads – that is, roads that lack yellow stripe, because there are actually many miles on this route that are missing. The left is quite clear that it's also a priority problem. And we know that there are many tunnel solutions today that violate the safety regulations. It has to be solved. And we have an increasing problem with racial hazard, also along this route. So there are several things that have to be solved on this distance, and the left would like to be involved in helping to get these not least started at first, and then solved, but we're not going back to an agreement that we have with Rogfast. So we hope that the project can be started soon. It will be a good signal to the people there, and really to the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1145	There is a broad consensus that Rogfast should be realized. Therefore, the purpose of this proposal may be good, but it is not feasible, it does not take regulation into account. And it's a little strange that after six and a half years with the Progress Party State Council chair – with little progress – a Document 8 proposal is presented. Maybe there are some crocodile tears in the Progress Party, I don't know. I've been working on transportation business in Rogaland for 40 years. I have been involved in the realization of Rennfast, T-connection, Finnfast, Ryfast and now Rogfast – with the closure of a ferry connection. I have also been in the Western Council, and this is a matter that both business and politicians are very concerned about. We were very disappointed, but we understood that the State Council Dale stopped the project because of the White Island arm. But then we were almost irritated and got distrusted when Hareide took over and the Road Directorate came up with a new estimate. It actually went on trust, because we thought the documentation was good enough. But there was a need for a new calculation because of risk assessment. Now is the time for realism. I was disappointed, but now I'm excited and hopeful when I hear the committee and what's going on, because we have to focus on the processes and guidelines that are required. I have registered no counterclaims other than the political views that someone is travelling. We depend on quality in the project, and we are going to treat Rogfast in the same way as other projects in Norway. Then it may be that we like and don't like what's going on – that's what I leave to the emotional life. In the case of ferries, private ferry operations are quite unrealistic. Today there are four ferries going, and I want to see who dares to start with four ferries if the tunnel comes. I also know a little about the heavy-duty car industry. They need half an hour to get an approved rest period. This means that if there is a private ferry service, they must go slower than today if it is to be attractive. I hope the Road Directorate will take note of that in its impact assessment, from us who know the business and needs of the West. Now we're excited about the progress. We have had great confidence in the project organisation that has built Ryfast, the world's largest and most special underwater tunnel. So competence is clear, business is clear, and politicians and people are clear. So now we assume that the department has a quick implementation, and I'm glad that both the committee and the Stortinge express a majority to realize Rogfast. That is why we do not support the matter today, which is a symbolic matter. Rather, the Christian People's Party is in favour of a real result.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1160	The E39 Rogfast is to cross the Boknafjord and the White Sea fjord and will provide major positive coastal ringings, both regional and national. Following the announcement of the first major contract for the project, the State Road Administration, as the builder, said that the cost increase was too large. It was therefore the department that decided to cancel the competition. And state councillor Jon Georg Dale chose not to make that decision. Yes, he said: "We don't know how long this will take. The most important thing is that we reduce the risk in the project and get costs under control". The Ministry of Transport therefore informed the State budget for 2020 that a comprehensive review of the project will be carried out. The Swedish Road Administration has now carried out this review, and I have received a thorough assessment of the costs, implementation and financing of the project from the department. The ETA assessment points to several challenges with the project. The evaluation shows, among other things: it will not be possible to carry out the project within the cost range decided by the Storting. However, even if a height of uncertainty is taken into account in the etatate's forecast of the final cost of the project, a high distance from the agreed cost framework underpinning the treatment of the Stortinge. I am going through the assessment of the department and aim to return to Stortinget with a closer assessment of further progress of the project as soon as possible – and I will focus on it as soon as possible. To restart the project before it seems I want to be an unfortunate grip. I am very pleased that the Committee seems to want to take decisions that take such an approach, but an impatient approach. In my view, the representative proposal would mean that one should start the project, with some saying that the framework of the project is not sufficiently solid. The solution proposed by the representative is, I believe, contrary to the rules of the promise. Such a way of directing large government investment projects, I will warn against. But I share the insolence attached to this project, a project that, based on an assessment of profitability and socio-economic profitability, comes out well, which binds regions together. And so I point out that I am now working on this project, and I will come back to Stortinget as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1177	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1182	The Rogfast project was stopped in September, as we know, because, as the Council of State has also explained, the project costs were expected to go beyond the framework adopted in this Chamber. There is, as I mentioned in my post, great impatience in the region, which the Council of State now says he shares. It is now about nine months to go through the project. The council took over the project when the Progress Party left the government in January. Everyone understands that it will take some time to go through such a project, but in the media we have read that the Rogfast organisation, those who are responsible for the construction of the project, has reduced costs, which means that the project costs will be within the framework. If that is the case, why does this take so long that it will go at least one year from stop to restart?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1187	I got a description of this project by the State Road Administration about a month ago. This means that the State Road Administration has worked on this matter, and I know well that the project organisation in Rogaland has been closely involved in that work. This is the project organisation that has delivered Ryfast under very demanding circumstances in a very good way. They've recorded cost reductions that cause the cost increase that was there to be about 6.5 billion. kr, has been reduced to approximately 3.5 billion. kr, but the project is still beyond the framework underpinning the governance framework – the cost framework – adopted here in Stortinget. As I said in my post, the costs are therefore still so high that we have to go back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1192	This is a project that is important for the construction industry, and it is located in a region that is severely affected by both the covid-19 problem and the weakened oil price. It's also a project that's started. In conversations with operators in the civil engineering industry, we are getting a voice of concern. According to the report that Oslo Economics has delivered on order from the Ministry of Finance, it is said that there is a good deal to do with the construction industry, and that there is no need for action, but the ones we are talking to, who are writing posts in the Financial Newspaper today – the small and medium-sized construction companies in the districts – are concerned. In Rogaland, the state road system has stopped, so to speak, all installations, and the construction industry is down. But when the government says, despite the fact that there is no need for action in relation to covid-19, can the Council of State explain on what basis this decision has been taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1203	The decision taken by the State Road Administration, by the then state council, Jon Georg Dale, was just about the fact that the costs of this project were beyond the framework decided by the Stortinget. It is in the understanding of the representative Langholm Hansen that this project will be very good – precisely in the light of covid-19. It will be an organization we have in Rogaland that has proved very well capable of carrying out large, very demanding transportation projects. I am sure that if we adopt a realistic framework, that organisation will do so. It will also be a good contribution to the challenging situation we have in the light of the covid-19, where we see that just keeping the wheels running is very important. I think the committee has actually made a good contribution to it through this plural setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1208	Thanks for the answer, it at least comforts a little bit. There are some parties that don't want to build this ferry-free E39. Now we know that Rogfast has a very large share of tolls, so I want to ask the Council of State: if we don't build Rogfast, how much money is then made available for use elsewhere in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1215	Rogfast is selected from one of the projects with the highest toll ratio. It may be that this part has to be reduced somewhat in the light of the increase in costs we have. I've heard several comments about this with a so-called ferry. I think that's very uncertain, and I think it's extremely difficult for us to determine what will be ten years in time – whether or not there will be a ferry. But what I'm pretty sure is that in light of the fact that we have to consider whether there will be a ferry, there are some limitations on how high the toll level can be on this project. The size and we went quite far when we adopted the project in its original form. Therefore, it is uncertain whether we can increase the toll further. That's one of the things we're assessing, and we have to come back to Stortinget. As I've said several times, we'll be there as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1220	When the directorate now looks at costs, I see that they are able to create uncertainty about the project by looking at the possibility of how harmful it might be, among other things. private ferry business. They also look at the level of charges for zero-emission cars and that more zero-emission cars will weaken the revenue of the project. Isn't it time to remind you that this is a project adopted by Stortinget – and does the Council of State think it's time to look at these uncertainties now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1225	I don't feel that the state road body's performance here is creating uncertainty about the project. What is clear from the State Road Service is that the cost framework adopted by the Stortinget is unfortunately not realistic today. Then they also take up what's going on on private ferry business, the possibility of it. This is because we have also become familiar with what has happened to Ryfast, where a private ferry operation has also been taken into account – as was not intended when Ryfast was adopted in this room. It is natural that we need to assess that kind of thing, but it is probably the cost side that is the most demanding part, precisely because the costs are larger than what was underlying the governance framework. And of course, we also need to consider the income side of this project, but that is enough, as I read it, so that the most demanding part goes on the cost increments you have received. And I feel that the floor is very positive for the project, even with the new information that has come out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1230	I don't think there's any big disunity between me and the state council, considering that the project was stopped by the Progress Party and Jon Georg Dale, who was then the state council, and that it's now about getting it back on track again. My question is, in fact, to proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, which is a little bit cryptic. If Stortinget had accepted proposal No. 1 and one, however, should have adhered to the laws, regulations and financial management applicable in the ministry: Is it such that proposal No. 1 would have started much faster than Decision I of the majority in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1238	I want to be clean up against Stortinget: it was the Statens Vegvesen who stopped the project. Then, of course, Dale had all the possibilities to change that decision -- he didn't choose to do it. However, if the project is within a governance and cost framework decided by Stortinget in its time, there is every possibility of continuing with the project today. But the reality is that it is not, and therefore there is a need to come back to the Storting. With all the information I've been with today, I have to go back to Stortinget. If I don't do that, I'm breaking the promise rules, and we've been discussing ourselves – as late as this week – challenges with cost exceedances, among other things. that was the case at the time of the railway project. And cost exceedances are an ultimatum, the same where it is, but at least it must be in line with our promise rules. Therefore, if the project had followed the cost frame that was there, we could have started, but unfortunately that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1243	It is stated in the State Council's letter to the Committee that the consulting company that has been involved has not gone into this thoroughly with the ferry business, i.e. whether private ferry operations can be profitable. And it's mildly quite decisive, I would say, for the whole project whether there's going to be a competing ferry on that route. Does the Council agree that this is a very important question? And will he now take the initiative that we get a specific investigation into this particular issue – now it is perhaps a little waiting time and opportunity – so that he has a good and reliable basis for such a cost estimate?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1250	When I come back to Stortinget – as soon as possible – it is natural that we have made an assessment of several aspects of the project, both the cost side and the income side. But I would say that there is a great deal of uncertainty attached to a possible ferry operation. And one can't compare this entirely to the Ryfast project, where we didn't think it would come up with an alternative ferry drive, but it might indicate that Ryfast will be attached. But as has also been said here, today's ferry business has State support of some 230 million. kr per year and goes very often. There's something else to come to a vacation where you might have to wait one hour, one and a half hours, on a ferry. This means that the attractiveness will be lower, and there will be a significant run distance through relatively old tunnels, up against running through a new and modern Rogfast project. But an assessment of that is natural that we do when we get back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1255	So the chord change is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1262	Some places in our country mean mainland connections and road much more than elsewhere. When I was in Stavanger, I tried to book a train trip to Bergen. It takes approx. 15 hours. It's a distance of 20 miles. No one takes trains there, and it may not be so strange, because you have to enter Oslo – there are no train tracks. Rogfast is therefore important in several ways in order to link that part of our country closer together in one housing and labour market region. This is two of our largest cities. Today's Stavanger Aftenblad is a very good comment on the U-wings of the Progress Party, for it is such that the Progress Party has run both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport for seven years. It is on their guard that a cost excess came to light, and it is on their guard that the project was stopped. One put a foot in the ground to get cost control, said one. We need a comprehensive review, so we have now received a proposal for a representative to ensure the progress of the project without delay – regardless of what the Progress Party ordered, and what the cost review shows – after a stop in the project The Progress Party itself decided, and a cost control The Progress Party itself ordered. By the new Minister of Transport, you expect a lot more than what you did by yourself, and you have more confidence in him. Now there are many more projects that we either ate cake or drank champagne because we've got into the national transport plan, which has a formidable cost increase. We have to take this seriously. It is therefore absolutely necessary for a cost control and a review to be carried out. Now the Council of State has said that it is on the table, and there are positive signals with a reduction of up to 3 billion. kr, but the important thing is that the project must also legally have a new decision in Stortinget if the review shows that it is necessary to change the management and cost framework. Tolls have been collected for a long time in this project. That project must be carried out as quickly as possible, but the review now being carried out is extremely important also for the next roll-out of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1275	First, I would like to pay tribute to both the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee, who has worked well to find solutions and contribute to progress in the matter. I'm also very pleased that a broad majority of the Stortinget gathers that Rogfast will be implemented as soon as possible, and not least I'm very pleased that a clear majority reject the demeaning rematches of SV, which would have given worse solutions for people, business and the environment. Rogfast is Norway's most socio-economically profitable road project, which will create great opportunities for value creation and a simpler everyday life for people. Of course it must and must be realized. I think most people understand that costs have to be controlled, and the budget rules have to be kept. Responsibility is a virtue. At the same time, Right and Rogaland are impatient. It's been three years since we adopted Rogfast. If we wait until the harvest, the project has been a whole year since it stopped. Quality and cost control are important. However, in this case time is also a critical factor. For every day that goes unnecessarily, the costs run with a project organisation that is ready. Social costs are borne by construction contractors who have upgraded to manage the project, but instead have ended up with lay-offs, not least in the light of today’s covid-19 situation. Not least, the annual ferry costs and the ever-closer termination of today’s holiday offer are involved. We last looked at Ryfast how expensive it was when it had to be extended. For every day that goes unnecessarily, we are at risk of a loss of critical competence in the form of the people who have built Ryfast under budget. One of the delaying rounds has been the assessment of contract form. Now the state road authority has made a clear recommendation and has helped clear some of the uncertainty away from the table. We are many who have a clear expectation and not least faith and optimism about the fact that the Minister of Transport is now working effectively on the matter, with the aim of getting started again. I am also sure that the Storting is ready to meet, if it is this summer, to get knocked through this matter. It must and should not be on it. I look forward to a road that doesn't close every time it blows more than rigid spherical, but that stays open, a road that provides the basis for the country's second largest housing and labour market, which connects Rogaland and Westland. It's time to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1292	The centre party has a clear expectation that Rogfast will be realised – Rogfast is agreed by Stortinget – and that the construction will have to start again as soon as possible. Because of the coronary situation, Circus Arnardo has canceled his entire tour program, but the circus FrP is running on, regardless of pandemic. There is something absurd in the whole, and that the Council of State – the councillor Hareide here said that it was formally the directorate that stopped it, but one knows that there is dialogue, and that the real responsibility is Jon Georg Dale – he has stopped the project. I used to warn you what the progress game could mean for Rogfast, because there was so much rhetoric, there have been so many games, there has been so much speculation – one has not taken this seriously. For a period of time, it was the local government that Ketil Solvik-Olsen left to blame for the delay in the project, because they demanded a little more than one meeting to adopt a reregulation. But that wasn't where the problem was. On February 26, 2016, they were out and mad again, then Bent Höie and Ketil Solvik-Olsen were out and said that they were now Rogfast. The fact that 2017 was later than the project should actually be started, they said nothing about it. But they said they took some shortcuts. Are there the shortcuts to Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Bent Höie me no strir with? I believe that the Progress Party must take responsibility. They should be commended for submitting the project, but trying to dissociate themselves from the responsibility is not enough. In the proposal for a decision I believe that there must be room to proceed with the White Sea contract and resume the final approval of the cost framework for the project, so that there will be no unnecessary postponements. I have a little problem seeing differences in what is proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, and the position of the plural to Decision I. Now I have not been in the internal dialogue of the Committee on Transport, simply because I am not in that committee, but I almost believe that one must have been in the meeting of the Committee on Transport to understand what is, as it were, the alarming difference between the two. Now the project has to go back, a few more progress is needed, that's the count, and the time for the games and the talk is over. I hope the broadest possible support for the proposal for Decision I.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1310	The left's representative says something that many people say: you're right, Arne Nävra, there are long distances that need yellow middle stripe, but it also has to be given priority, and if everything is to be given priority, there won't be that much money left for each. I guess it's not going to be that much yellow middle stripe and race protection, I'm going to say to Gunnes' representative. That's exactly what's at the heart of the matter -- that's what we're going to spend billions on. That's what's my point, at least. I'd like to say a little bit more about this with private ferry operations, because it turns out, in the response of the Council of State Hareide to the Committee, that it means a lot to the financing of the project. There have been several scenarios in the investigation that have been made, and we also see that the need for government funding varies significantly – from 4.4 billion. NOK 9 billion. I guess it says kr. It's obvious that Rogfast is based on enormous economic uncertainty. I simply record that many people here in the hall will press through this project at what cost. There is another point that has been under-communicated over a long time in relation to these large underwater tunnels. It is never mentioned by those who are followers of these large projects. This applies, inter alia, to: the annual maintenance costs. We have received an answer to this from former Councillor Solvik-Olsen. I asked him about it several times and got the answer, when we sat and calculated it, that it had to be over 200 million. kr per year of maintenance on Rogfast. It's quite a lot of money. Then there's a point I've also raised before, and as I think the Council of State should notice. This concerns the issue of socio-economic profitability. NTNU, through Nordic research in 2018, has now come to the conclusion that, as you call in the forest, you get answers. It's scary. It is quite alarming that the independence of research and the objectivity and neutrality of investigations are called into question. If that's how those investigations often give an answer that's closest to what the orderer wants, then we're on quite a matter of urgency. This is reason to take it seriously. I think it's worrying, and I also want to ask for new models for calculating socio-economic benefits. Not least, we have to take into account all the consequences that it can't be counted on, and that's nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1325	I said in my first post that I would come back to the environmental aspect around Rogfast, and it really surprises me that SV is not more concerned with the positive side of such an environmental account. I want those in the hall that are concerned with the environment to eat their ears. Indeed, the E39 coastal line, with several fjord crossings, is actually an environmental project. The construction of the fjord crossings will, of course, lead to increased emissions, but after completion this improvement on the road will be an environmental measure. A transfer of goods from road to sea – and if we succeed in transporting goods destined for the West to the West – demands that it is good roads to transport these goods from port to consumer. Today, goods are actually transported over mountain passes between 600 and 900 metres. If the goods are transported from e.g. Bergen or Risavika at Stavanger, Svinesund will lose much of the trailer traffic, and it will be carried over – or rather below – the fjords of the West. For the Bokenfjord, it means up to a third of the elevation meters, which is 360 meters below sea level, instead of 900 meters above mountain. Today, the cars are being unloaded through Rennfast. There are two uphills and two downhills. This means that in the future they will save both brakes and diesel. The option SV suggests, is autonomous, emission-free ferries. It is an alternative that requires more ferries than one, and if they are to be electrically or emission-free, they will use so much energy, whether it is battery or hydrogen, that it corresponds to the entire private power consumption in the municipality of Randaberg. Then there is a question about this is the right thing to use the money on. There are two more questions. One is, would it be cost-effective to build another tunnel in Rennfast for a cost of 10-12 billion. kr in addition to the two that are there today? The second is, will it be possible to maintain the regularity of autonomous ferries on an almost open seabed? I strongly advise against going for the vision that SV has, which they have not suggested in this case either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1338	I am very pleased that the Council of State confirms that it is of course the state road service that has stopped this project, and not the former Council of State. It is, of course, very disappointing for Pollestad to have to listen to and realize, and he is trying to make a little more circus of this proposal. And the circus FrP, who may sometimes need a clown, can probably find it in the representative Pollestad and get him to join it, because so he manages at the same time as he thinks this is a circus decision, to think that the decision can lead to a faster start-up – he has actually been out saying that the White Island Tunnel can be launched before the summer – and then to end his speech that he did not see any difference in the various decisions in the proposal for a representative. No one disagreed when the project was stopped. There was a need to put a foot in the ground and take a cost check. But now we have come to the point that it is the same organisation that stopped the project, which believes that they have good control and want to start up again. Then I think this is very disappointing. We would like to give the necessary powers to the Council of State, for example: launching the White Sea contract, which will not in any way affect the costs incurred by the total project. So it is the Council of State that is to be given that authority, not the State Road Administration, and I am confident that the Council of State can show trust and start up the project again when he himself feels comfortable with the information he has received. The new uncertainty now does not depend on the costs, but there is so much going on critical personnel. The state Road Service has completed Ryfast and developed a unique competence on such projects, so I want to consult with the Council of State what he has done, or will do, to ensure that this environment is maintained, also with new delays in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1347	The next speaker is Helge Orten – and he's not from Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1353	Thank you, President, and I may have to thank you extra for that confirmation. I interfere with a debate on Rogaland, which is an important debate on transport. We've had, and will have, several issues in Stortinget relating to cost control on important and large-scale transportation projects. We used to have it this week related to big railway projects, and now we have it about a road project. Therefore, it is extremely important for me – also as the committee leader – to point out that we need to have a consistent view on how we handle this type of major transport project when we experience that costs are increasing and going beyond the framework set by the Storting. Then it is not useful to be as light as I experience that both the Progress Party and the Center Party – in part – are in this case. It's not like the representative Pollestad claims, that for the White Sea contract, we can start part of the project without knowing what this will cost overall, and how we're going to finance it. It's not that you can take part of the project out of the whole. That part of the contract cannot be left alone. That's why I think it was incredibly important, as the representative Halleland also confirmed, what was done – that it was right to put a foot on the ground and make a cost review. I totally agree. It was important to do that, and then we also have to have patience enough to get the numbers in place. I'm impatient, too. I want to have this implemented as quickly and as quickly as possible. The project has to be carried out, but that's right, and we have to have patience enough to know what the expected total cost is, and how we're going to finance it, before we start all or part of the project. I think that if we are to have a lack of cost control in this room, a lack of cost control on large transportation projects, we must at least do what we can to just implement cost reduction measures, get costs as low as we can get them, get them as real as possible and make sure that we also have control of costs on the day we start the project. I would like to make a small comment on the analysis that has been made in connection with continuing ferry operations. I consider that to be totally unrealistic. Today, with today's traffic base, with no tunnel solution, we depend on subsidising ferry operations – if I remember correctly from what the council said – by 230 million. kr in the year, it is totally unrealistic for some to engage in competing activities. At least my savings will not go into that project. When that tunnel arrives, it will handle traffic in this area. That part of the analysis I think we can do quickly and quickly, and say that it's really about here, is get the cost framework adjusted and make sure to find a reasonable funding for it. That is really what we are now discussing. And then we have to get that case back to Stortinget as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1366	I'm from Rogaland, too. I can start by reminding you of what a wise rapporteur at Sunnmøre once said. He said that once we have built the tunnel, no one can take it from us. At least that's a fact. This debate can be heard from the outside as a competition for who is most in favour of Rogfast. I think all the parties that want to realize Rogfast are just as much for the project, and then we disagree a little bit about how to get to the goal as quickly as possible. Then it's SV, the Green Party and I think a commentator in Stavanger Aftenblad, who is against Rogfast, otherwise everyone is for. We can be sure of that. The council must be even more offensive in promising us that this will come as quickly as it is. Then there's been a discussion about priorities. I am a health politician and have worked a lot on priorities in connection with it. We always have to calculate very carefully with new methods, and what we're doing there are three criteria: the severity of the state, the usefulness of the measure and a reasonable cost-benefit ratio. These are the criteria we use when applying new health care methods. I believe that Rogfast meets all these criteria, because the state of travel in the West is not good. It is serious that we only have road connection just when the ferry clapps to the berth and when it is expected. As far as the benefits of the action are concerned, it clearly has great societal benefits. And it's actually a reasonable relationship between the cost and the benefit, because what you're ignoring here is that a whole business life and trade unions think this is the right thing to build even though it's largely user-funded. This is how the state pays the VAT bill, the rest of the project is paid by the drivers. This is a project that Westerners want, even if it costs so it cheats. Then there have been several people at Rennfast. If we don't build Rogfast, we have to build a new tunnel in Rennfast, and we still have to have ferry operations. I would never think of saying anything like that, but if my father had been here, he would have said, "That with 25 pst. leaks for private ferry operations are so stupid that you have to be an easter to understand it. For Boknafjorden, the weather is very bad, and it is difficult to have ferry operations there. And then you think you should drive through Rennfast, pay yourself through there and then take a ferry, which is hard to run on today. There is no reason to believe in that analysis, and the Council of State must simply overlook it. And then you've calculated a lot of the income base. So a unison biging, except for some small parties, will have this project going on, and it's just for the council to start. Then we just have to bend in the dust for the allocation regulation, and we have to make sure that this is done properly. But this project has to stand up, it deserves the whole country, because this is not a Rogaland project, it's a project for the whole of the West. And it's now so that the value creation in South West is very big, and then we have to help where we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1377	I do not know if I dare answer the representative of Stensland that I am a Westerner, after his comment instead. But I'm going to answer the challenges I've been given. The representative Halleland addresses the project environment in Rogaland, which is ready to start work. I think the most important thing we can do for that environment is that we get to do this work as soon as possible. I've had a meeting with Rogaland County, a good meeting, but it's also so that Rogaland County has provided a guarantee, and that makes them stand in a position that makes a close dialogue with them important. The representative Pollestad comments on Circus Arnardo, but there will also be some Circus Pollestad. When we're gonna get started? So this is our biggest road project ever, and that we're going to do it before we know the whole thing, and when we know that the frame is beyond what the Storing has decided, I can't recommend it. But what I can say to the representative Pollestad is that the concept of Rogfast, it's firm. And I think that's a good reason for this. It is quite right that the State Road Service is stopping this project. But everyone knows that former state council Jon Georg Dale could change that decision. That is why I cannot read this proposal in any other way than that there is an indirect criticism by former Councillor Jon Georg Dale. But when he has seen his own name on this proposal, at least he is good at self-criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1388	It is likely that there will be some detail when it is right to say that Dale could have made the decision. That is quite right, but there are also traces of correspondence between the Council of State Dale and Stortinget earlier, in the form of written questions, suggesting that he was informed before the decision was taken by the Directorate of Road. It's in line with the way the directorate and department stick to each other. Then I need to clarify one thing that applies to what I say about the White Sea contract. First of all, I think it's important to hold on to this project that is agreed in Stortinget and that one has started to build on. One has begun the work. There should be a bit of caution in a large transportation project, at least they can't just build a little bit of, so stop and have a value, but it's clear that we shouldn't start building half tunnels and half bridges either. It's not a good social economy either. This project is confirmed by Stortinget, which has begun to build. There is a pioneer project, it has not been done, so there will be some uncertainty about the cost. The central party and I have been asked for when it comes to the White Sea contract is that one should go ahead and light it up, but one should reiterate that the project and the cost frame are approved. There is reason to believe that there is a political will for the project to be carried out, and I would suggest that it is relatively small risk to proceed with the contract, but one should not ultimately award and start building before the cost framework is in place. This is not an unusual grip, so there I thought calling it circus and other things – circus creates joy, so I like to take it on – is a little overdrive, because what we want is to run a race that is as tight as possible, within the financial regulations that apply. Our other censure is that now there are enough games and specks around Rogfast. Now the work must start – both because it is an important project for Rogaland and because we need work, we need employment. We need to get on with a project that people in Rogaland have been waiting for a long time, which is important both for Rogaland, for the West and for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1401	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1407	Thus today's map is fully debated. The cancellation will now take a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1427	The size should now vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1439	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1–5, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose to amend the legislation so that control of the quarantine law is added to an existing control body for similar benefits, such as Nav Control. The Supervisory Board shall not have members who are former State Councils, State Secretaries or political advisers in the Governmental Apparatus.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks it to propose changes to the quarantine pay scheme so that persons who set up companies during the post-paid period in areas that will trigger the quarantine, but do not pay, receive the quarantine, or settle and return to the Stortinget with a proposal to introduce a provision in the quarantine law that regulates the speculation of setting up companies or equivalent in order to extend the quarantine period not to be a law, and that in such cases a claim is to be triggered for the reimbursement of the compensation.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The decision asks the Government to propose to amend Section 20 of the Quarantine Act in order to impose an infringement fee if the conditions exist.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to make proposals to recover the compensation paid in the event of a breach of the quarantine law.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The majority asks the Presidency to propose a change in the scheme for the replacement of members of the Government, State Secretaries and political advisers so that those who have income from wages, salaries, pensions or the like after retirement may not be paid retirement benefits for one month, irrespective of the source of the income’.» An alternative is to vote between these proposals and the decision of the presidency. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Presidency had set the Storting to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1642	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Left the proposals No 3, 5 and 6, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the Act on the Intelligence Service, which strengthens the protection of sources and the confidence of the population in the State and which prevent interventions that have a cooling effect on freedom of expression. Chapters 7 and 8 of the Act shall not enter into force until these proposals have been dealt with in the Grand Duchy.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1671	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 6 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for other measures that strengthen our defence against digital and hybrid threats without the mass storage of data from electronic communications’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the mandate of the notified Data Protection Commission includes the consequences of organised data acquisition.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1695	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting within five years with the most transparent evaluation of the impact of organised procurement on combating foreign intelligence and terrorism in Norway, and how organised procurement may have affected freedom of expression by cooling effect, whether outsourcing has taken place and any negative impact on source protection’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Intelligence Services Act that strengthen source protection through ongoing judicial review’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e1719	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for judicial review in the third paragraph of Section 9-6, which implies enhanced protection of sources.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The left has notified subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e2870	It is added over A, Chapters 7 and 8. The Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e2884	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e2894	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e2908	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e2957	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e2976	During the debate, Mr Halleland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. Alternatively, there is a vote between II and the proposal of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a rapid start-up and further progress in the E39 Rogfast project and for it to continue mainly on the basis of current decisions in the Stortinget. If the cost review of the project shows that it is necessary to change the management and cost framework, the government shall present it to the Stortinget as soon as possible and without delay in the progress of the project.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e3008	The statement is proposed to the Committee on Energy and the Environment, which shall submit its draft opinion to the Economic and Social Committee for an opinion prior to its vote. The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e3015	SV considers that this matter is of such a serious nature that it should go to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and therefore proposes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e3020	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, then made a proposal to send the presentation to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The President shall open a short round of explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e3027	I will speak on behalf of the Economic and Social Committee. According to Section 14 of the Rules of Procedure, matters relating to State ownership shall be dealt with by the Business Committee. It applies regardless of whether the company being treated is under a department other than the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries. So this is the case with Equinor, under the Ministry of Oil and Energy. It is entirely acceptable to support the President's proposals, but I would just like to stress that the Rules of Procedure have a different point of view on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e3034	Several have not asked for an explanation of vote, and it is voted over the procedure. An alternative is to vote between the President's proposal and the proposal of the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e3048	Further references were made: 2nd@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by Mona Fagerås, Audun Lysbakken, Arne Nävra, Lars Haltbrecken and Freddy André Övstegård on profit-free kindergarten (Document 8:123 S [[380]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : Sent to the Education and Research Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-11.ana.ud526e3057	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
