ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e88	The representatives of Marit Knutsdatter Strand and Une Bastholm, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e101	I am promoting a proposal for the appointment of the Director of the Oil Fund and the reputation of the Norwegian Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e106	The representative Siri Gassemyr Staalesen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e111	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Henriksen, Stein Erik Lauvås, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Masud Gharakhani, Eirik Sivertsen and myself, I am promoting a proposal for action against social control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e116	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 8 will be treated as a whole. The cases relate to the second processing of laws and relate to the legislative decisions 133 to 140.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e215	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e231	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, three lines of reply will be given after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and six lines of response after contributions from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e238	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter. Competence policy is about investing in people and giving people in jobs, security and the ability to continue training to use their skills. For the Right as a bourgeois party there is nothing more important. That is exactly why we dried up the dust of competence policy when we joined the government in 2013, and I am very pleased that the competence reform is getting a majority today. Today, we are establishing a permanent competence programme with eight sectoral programmes and more flexible continuing training. We change the Loan Fund, so that adults can receive support, implement national digital career guidance services, a digital competence platform, change the law so that the vocational schools can offer relevant, shorter, further education. We're going through the entire management system of the UH sector to ensure that working life and higher education work better than they do today. But this big message is neither the beginning nor the end of the competence reform. The reform is on the shoulders of all measures such as the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been working together in the last few years, whether there is a commitment to Competence plus, a professional letter at work, Norway's first strategy of competence policy with the social partners or the Education promise in 2020, which the government has just launched. In particular, I would like to promote the vocational schools. In recent years, strong efforts have been made to increase the quality and status of vocational schools. The report strengthened the rights of post-secondary school students, the emphasis on improving the skills of vocational school teachers, the introduction of new technologies in training and the improvement of cooperation with local business. In the future, vocational schools will have a key role to play in the new sectoral programmes. In this communication, the government further announces its own strategy for the vocational schools, which must be focused on both capacity and quality. Right-wing wants more post-secondary places, and I am very pleased that the Right and Advance Party have agreed in the revised 1500 more places from the autumn of 2020. But for the right, it's also important that we don't just look at the number blindly. We have to make sure that every place has high quality, that the technical school has the capacity to receive so many students, and that there are enough applicants in the places. Two years ago, the Progress Party proposed to introduce the factor of relevant post-secondary work into the higher education funding system. Then there were several people who protested. These included: Someone who wrote something rather wise to Khrono: ‘The aim is to strike a good balance between the search for training and the needs of the labour market, but no one is served by a system that is governed by the Progress Party proposed here. Rigid detailed management, where apprenticeships only receive funding for studies that currently have a good transition from studies to jobs, will work against several purposes. [[...]] This sounds like a thoughtful and unthinkable proposal, which will create a lot of bureaucracy, weaken the autonomy of teaching places and break the self-esteem of education.’ This quote is from the representative Nina Sandberg, and it was written in a press release from the Workers' Party. Now I wouldn't have been surprised if the Workers' Party, which has turned 180 degrees on most educational policy issues, had also changed its mind here. We're probably more in agreement with the Research Association, which says this is good old-fashioned political horse trade. I do not think that is worth it in such an important matter. There is a cross-political consensus on more work relevance. That is the core of the reform of competences. It is also at the heart of the proposal that the Right, Christian People's Party and SV are promoting here today, namely a review of the governance and funding of the sector. But, like an almost unison UH sector, we think it is unwise for the majority to adopt a factor that, and I stress, should be part of a proposal for a new funding system, before it has been properly assessed. Although the intention is good, not everything is good, especially when one wants to adopt a factor that is virtually impossible to operate. For how do you measure the relevance of a government suite, of a biologist, of a chemist? And could it be that education equips students with a set of skills that cannot easily be measured by such a factor? Two weeks ago, the Hochskulen in the West got money to tailor training for skilled workers in the industry who want to become engineers. It's really where we're at the heart of what the reform of competences is all about; that people, no matter where they live in the country, whether they have mortgages or family life, have the opportunity to get more education, should have the security that they won't be hanging after society changes. Competence reform is just about to ensure this, that people have a job to do, and that they don't go out on the Norwegian labour market. As I said – this big message is neither the beginning nor the end, that bet is one of the most important things we do in the future. I'm dealing with the proposal that the Right is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e271	The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e278	After the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party agreed on adjustments to the reform of competences, it was clear that it was to increase the level of ambition for this reform of competences. It has obviously fallen right hard for the chest. But what's positive is that one of the factors that this Trinity wants to strengthen is the incentives for decentralised education. What's also positive is that after this consensus came to the table, the Right also says that they want to look at the funding system. The challenge of decentralised education has, among other things: there are few incentives in the UH sector to invest in more decentralised education to recruit those professions that are important in the districts. My question to the Right is: although they have had resistance to these changes in the past, will they not only follow up on the decisions, but also be willing to look at the proposals they have made in the past, which were against strengthening the focus on decentralised education – as a scholarship, as the introduction of degree funding, as well as their resistance to the change in the funding system?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e287	I would not say that this proposal has been the most burdensome to the Right. It has been particularly heavy for an overall UH sector, which has reacted massively over the past few weeks, without the Workers' Party being willing to listen. I would assume that when the Labour Party makes a proposal that says that a factor should be part of a proposal for a funding system, even if they have not listened to the sector, there is something the government has to provide – unfortunately, I believe, but this is the case when the Workers' Party joins the Advance Party and gives them such a great impact. There is no doubt that we want to have work relevance also in the financing and management of the sector. What we disagree with is that there's a trio going together here today and pre-concluding a factor that's difficult to operate, and that the Workers' Party itself two years ago thought was solved and little thought and would create more bureaucracy. The Labour Party has clearly turned around after two years because they have met the Advance Party. It is a breakthrough for the Progress Party, but unfortunate for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e294	A stepping-up plan for the vocational schools has been a theme that the Center Party has been working on over a long period of time, and we are pleased that there is a majority here today. In the setting, the Right criticises us for wanting more places than the county authorities have reported. They have reported 1738.85 places, which is 261.15 places less than we want. But in the revised national budget, the government and the right proposes 1,500 places, which is 238.85 places less than the states have notified. Why does the Right require that we deal with the reported needs of the states, while the seas choose not to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e299	When Marit Arnstad says 1738.85 places, it is what has been registered max, you can escalate, but you have not then made an assessment of, among other things. the relevance of working life, e.g. in a time under the corona. I believe it is right that every place should be of high quality, precisely because it is important for the vocational education sector in the long term. It is important for the status of the vocational school sector, and it is important not least to apply for the number of applicants. The biggest challenge we have is that we lack applicants. We need 2,800 applicants for the vocational schools that are part of the Coordinated Recording, and a very important task we have in the future is to make it attractive to apply for the vocational schools and make sure that the quality is good. I mean, here you see yourself a little bit blind on the number. We are now doing a massive escalation of the number of places in the vocational school sector, with 1,500 places, but at the same time I think you have to be concerned that it has quality, that you have enough vocational school teachers, enough equipment, and that there are enough applicants. It is possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, and it has the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e306	There is an overall increase that has committed itself to the Norwegian society being free of emissions by 2050, but the term ‘climate’ is mentioned only three times in this Communication. If we are to ensure a safe transition to Norwegian jobs, more than SV must address the enormous challenges we face. The oil age is on the verge, whether we like it or not. We must have a controlled conversion from the age of petroleum, and an ambitious, planned change of jobs, skills and technology is encouraged. I am sure that the representative Tybring-Gjedde has brought along the many thousands of climate-stripping young people who have taken over the seriousness of the climate crisis. How will the rapporteur explain to children and young people that the climate challenge is almost not addressed in this communication? Does the representative not agree with me that we would have needed other ambitions for world climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e313	I agree with the representative of Fagerås that we need high ambitions to be able to convert Norway and get a green shift, but that is exactly what the competence reform responds to. The reform of competence includes, for example: decentralised continuing training provision within the green shift, within ICT, in the field of digitisation, which allows for more filling and conversion of the enterprise around Norway, and the enterprise in which they work. That's what really matters. So I would like, when the representative of Fagerås is concerned about conversion, that she, for example. had supported sectoral programmes in many different sectors, e.g. oil and gas industries and maritime sectors. We know that the need for conversion is very great in order to achieve the green shift. The competence reform is just about what we're talking about every single day. The Korona crisis has shown how relevant it can be, but we know that both before and after Korona, the labour force is changing considerably due to digitisation and due to climate change. I feel that the measures we now have — and in particular the sectoral programmes and decentralised continuing training — will be absolutely necessary to succeed in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e320	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e326	Today is a big day. Finally, the Stortinge must adopt a reform of competence. The Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, was one of the first to address this, as early as 2016, so it was high time that the Stortinget now had a competence reform to deal with. The Koronacrisa has led to a record number of people now out of work, either as unemployed persons or as part of a permittee, making this reform of competences even more important. That's why I'm glad we're going to deal with it this summer. I have to say I had great expectations of the government's competence reform. It has been working on over many years. The expectations that were created were great, but when the reform was presented by the right-wing government on April 22, this year, it became clear to me and to the opposition that the government presented it was an air lock. In practice, the government would send the bill to employees and businesses. They had to take the bill themselves for continuing training. The proposal was actually a classic right-wing policy that would not give everyone the opportunity to learn all their life or enable Norway to cope with the change in employment that is now facing. One hears from the post of the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde that she is pleased with the big message that was submitted, which announces little new. The proposals that the government itself boasts of are really just evaluating, evaluating and reviewing. Yes, if you look through the measures, then the big picture appears most like an employment measure for the government, not an employment measure for the labour market. The government was pleased, but Stortinget was not satisfied. I am pleased that the Labour Party, together with the Centre Party and the Progress Party, negotiated a consensus on six concrete proposals for a reform of competence. As the Labour Party has been working for several years for a reform of competences, and now we are forcing the government to act and have drawn up six concrete proposals that actually lead to a reform of lifelong learning. We have taken the lead in competence policy, and I am pleased that many of our proposals have now received a broad majority after they have been submitted. I also want to make special mention of the promise we make for the vocational schools. It's a historic promise that you haven't seen anything like it since the 1960s. We ensure a majority for an obliging escalation plan where there will be 1 000 new places of study each year over the next five years. It is extremely important for the sector and ensures that one with the background of the new legislation can now bring about the necessary escalation and growth and is fully in place. The positions we have negotiated are in addition to those announced by the government in the revised national budget. There was a small dispute about this in the negotiations on the revised national budget, where the right again showed its true face and fought against what we had been given a majority. Unfortunately, we don't get the same number of places of study this year that the Workers' Party had hoped for, but we're going to say that it's now a change of pace. This is going to be followed up, and it was high time that the technical schools got such a boost. The Labour Party has also fought for no one to go out to date for a long time, and we have now been able to establish a right to fill in skills, so that new skills in the labour market are also formalised. The aim of the Workers' Party is to ensure that all workers are given a statutory right to fill their skills, because no one is afraid to go out on their jobs. That's why I'm glad we're now starting an investigation work with the parties to see how this can become a reality. I am also proud that we have a majority for Competence Find Digital, a new, smart device that also picks up again the idea that the government had put in the drawer. We are given two new industry programmes and an important decision on real competence assessment. Then there has been a big debate on our proposal to change the funding system in order to ensure more continuing training and more work relevance. The funding system for universities and higher education institutions has been one of the major barriers to good continuing education and lifelong learning. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party is now getting an impact on a change in the system that I hope will give stronger incentives to universities and colleges, so that they will be able to meet the demand that we are now going to have for further training, further training. This has to pay off. I would like to stress that the system to be set up will be set up in close cooperation with the education sector and the labour market. Our starting point is that today's system is not good enough, and I'm not afraid of a discussion about how a new system should be. With that, I take up the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e349	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e356	It was interesting to hear the representative Tvedt Solberg describe that the Workers' Party has had an impact on what they described two years ago as a ‘loosely thoughtful and unthinkable proposals, which will create a great deal of bureaucracy, weaken the autonomy of teaching places and break the self-esteem of education’. This was a press release from the Workers' Party when the Progress Party proposed it two years ago, but now it has turned the tone around. After several weeks of fogging about what you're going for, I'm glad that the Workers' Party now embraces it completely, namely that it pre-conclusions on three of the factors that are to be part of a new funding system. I wonder at one thing from the representative Tvedt Solberg: if the government now joins the sector and investigates this factor, ‘relevant work after completion of education’, and concludes that it is difficult to operate and that it is not correct, is it still the Labour Party’s requirement here today that this must be part of the funding proposal submitted to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e368	Yes, the fog laying, the fog that has been there, has probably been lying densely around the Right House, I think. I also noticed that the representative Tybring-Gjedde in his post and in his reply to replies to replies pointed out that an overall sector has responded to this proposal. That's not true; there were a couple of principals. If one wants a counting discussion about how many principals have supported which proposals, at least the proposal has created a very big discussion. Many have supported it, many have responded to parts of it, and I think many have also been reassured by reading what is in the setting and in our comments. To the question: I would just like to refer to the comments in the setting, where it is very clear what the Workers' Party wants. I hope we have a new funding system that is different from what we have today, and which also takes on much more work relevance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e377	The representative Tvedt Solberg is quite right that there has been a lot of discussion, but it has not been at Højre's House, it has actually been in all the other columns in Norway. And yes, there's one post with some principals, but even they write that this factor you want to pre-conclusion on, it's hard to operate. On the other hand, what we want is a comprehensive review of funding and governance, and that is what the government is doing. But what has been the big debate is that you want to put in place a factor – which is difficult to measure and which will punish educational institutions – on the basis of something they cannot influence themselves, and which the Labour Party itself thought was a little thoughtful proposal. But for those who have not read the comments in the settings, you might refer to it and answer my question. The question is that if the government goes back, investigates and finds that this is not wise – like almost everyone in the UH sector, and I can frame up many who are opposed to this – will it still be the Workers' Party's demand to present it in a new proposal for funding here from the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e384	Let me underline it: I thought the fog was on the Right House, and it seems like it is still close, because no one has pre-defined here. It is commendable, I think, that the government is now saying that they want an overall review, but let me underline it very clearly: it had not been part of that review to look at both the short course after continuing education and work experience if the Stortinget had not made it clear in decision today. In his question, the representative Tybring-Gjedde has a sort of premise that one model has landed. It's completely wrong. There's no model that's landed, so I don't know what this is going to look like. But the ambition of the Workers' Party is that a much greater responsibility should be placed on the institutions to ensure the relevance of working life, and I think we can actually manage to get into a good model, even if I register that the Right does not believe such a model is at all possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e391	The debate on the reform of competences has not been about the great need we have for continuing training in the coming years. Unfortunately, much of the debate has been influenced by the proposal of the new Trinity to introduce work relevance into the higher education funding system. SV believes that the sector should be financed through basic appropriations, not performance indicators. It ensures funding independent of competition or business priorities. This was a position I thought we were with the Workers' Party about. It was therefore very surprising to read in the paper that the Workers' Party had been involved in a proposal throughout the university and higher education sectors – among others – strongly warns against this. NTL, which is traditionally close to the Workers' Party, strengthens the orientation of objectives and results and weakens the space for action. How does the Labour Party feel that the proposal strengthens confidence in the sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e396	I would first like to say something about the debate. I am pleased that there has now been a debate on the reform of competences. Since the government presented its reform of competence, I have almost not recorded that there has been any discussion, which may reflect where the reform of competence that was presented was unreserved. So to the question. One does not exclude the other, I mean. The working party is quite clear that if we join the government, we want to settle with New Public Management and want less detail management. I don't think that's the opposite of having clear, general, national targets. I also hope the representative from SV is interested in that. I think that a review of the funding system doesn't necessarily have to mean that one puts on more goals and more detail management, but also that one can take things away. What the Workers' Party has been clear about in this discussion is what we think must be brought in, and what we mean is not working with today's funding system. I think it is surprising that SV so much defends a system that does not work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e403	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e408	The reform of competence is based on the work done in the Education Policy of the Progress Party entered the government in 2013 and until today, and the Progress Party is today with and forms a different majority in the election. Together with the government parties, we ensure that the intention of the notification and the measures proposed is secured by a majority, such as a majority. career guidance, removing the minimum length of vocational education and making the arrangements in the Loan Fund more flexible and adapted to employed adults. The loan fund is mainly adapted to young full-time students today, but for us, it is important to open up so that adults can combine work, family and studies. The Progress Party wholeheartedly supports the ambition of the government, which is that no one should go out to date because of lack of competence, and that we must close the gap between what the labour market needs for competence and the skills that workers actually have. We have also worked with the Labour Party and the Centre on six points where the red thread of the consensus is the need for employment. Today, I am pleased that we are getting a historic boost for the vocational school sector, with something that the sector has been asking for for a long time, namely an obsessive and offensive escalating plan of 1 000 new places of study for five years. Furthermore, we have ensured a majority that the 1 000 temporary study places set up by the government as a corona measure should be converted into permanent study places, while our three parties thought that we should have an ambition of up to 2 000 permanent study places from the fall. The Progress Party is committed to facilitating the development of the oil and gas industry – the country’s main industry, which creates growth and well-being and jobs across the country. This is an industry which employs nearly 200,000 people and which itself has asked for a separate industry programme to develop further and add skills and fill to its own employees. This is an industry to produce oil and gas for a long time, and it is important that employees have good development opportunities. The Progress Party is now involved and ensures a majority that the industry will receive its programme, such as: The NHO, NITO and Tekna have been called for. In the Communication, the Government points out that one of several instruments for the governance and development of the higher education sector is through the funding system and one of the proposed measures by the Government is to assess the need for adjustments. The majority in this room we don't just think we need to evaluate adjustments. We are therefore asking for a comprehensive review of the funding system, where the government, in cooperation with the sector, will design and propose different options that will safeguard our intentions. The SSB regularly provides projections of the labour force and employment after education, and the latest one points towards 2035. It can be summarised as the number of highly educated people increases more than the number of relevant jobs. Highly educated students in some studies may have difficulty getting a relevant job, while there will be a large lack of e.g. nurses, doctors and teachers in the coming years. These are the numbers that politicians must take seriously. The main purpose of the SSB projections is to give early warning to both authorities, universities, colleges and potential students of possible imbalances. In this way, it can be taken into account and counterbalances can be as large as the projections indicate. The Progress Party has long arranged that we should also have something in the funding key that takes into account what happens to the students after the final exam. Our neighbouring countries Finland and Denmark both work as a financing factor, and we should be able to gain experience from them. The introduction of a new funding factor will not affect the freedom of choice of each student to choose education itself or lead to increased costs for the students, but it can contribute to even closer cooperation between universities, colleges, municipalities and businesses in the regions, and it is likely to contribute to increased information on career opportunities for those who want to apply for study, which will contribute more to raising the awareness of students when they choose. In Norway, taxpayers ensure that students have free higher education, access to cheap student housing and favourable loan and grant schemes, but also that welfare schemes exist for those who do not get a job. In the Progress Party, we believe that it is reasonable that we should put in place a system that stimulates us to train people more to the needs of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e433	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e439	The Government Parties and the Advance Party agree that it is necessary to scale up the number of high-quality vocational schools in order to meet the changing needs of the labour market and to provide people with security. I am pleased that we also agree to show that it is a prerequisite that the investment in several vocational schools is not at the expense of the quality of the vocational schools and the relevance of working life, and that the increase in the number of vocational schools must therefore be assessed annually and seen in conjunction with both the applicants and the ambitions to build up a sector with several solid vocational schools with strong professional environments. The government is now preparing its own strategy for higher vocational education, and the government and the Progress Party have been working for many years to raise the status and importance of vocational schools. Can the representative Steffensen say a little about how the Progress Party thinks that we can also strengthen the quality and search of the vocational schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e446	Thank you for the question. Quality development in the technical school sector has been important for the Progress Party and government parties in the last six years. We've been working with, for example. improving the skills of teachers, providing the quality message, and we have also adopted a new law on higher vocational education – which contributes to the status and also responds to the point raised by the representative on how we can get more applicants. I think one of the most important things to get more applicants is to show that we have a clear and clear ambition that we want more places to study. There was a majority in this room who wanted 2 000 places to study, but we record that it did not get the success of the Progress Party when we negotiated revised with the government, because, as the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde said in the reply with the representative Arnstad, one is concerned about the quality of the vocational school sector. I'm not worried about the quality of the college sector, I think one is well equipped to receive 2,000 students already in the fall, but unfortunately we didn't get a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e453	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e458	Developing skills is of great value to individuals, and there is a need for an increasingly changing pace of work. For this reason, there is also broad political agreement on the objectives of a reform of competences: the objective of no one going out to date due to a lack of competence, and of closing the gap between the actual competences of the workers and the needs of the labour market. However, good analysis and intentions are not sufficient to translate the reform of competence from the paper into practical action. Sickness if the labour market is to continue to be responsible for the enhancement of competence is the responsibility of the authorities that make the premises through the governance of the formal education system as well. Therefore, education and training authorities and institutions must take collective responsibility for better aligning the sector to the needs of the labour market. It brings me to the post-school place in the education system. The centre party was for very many years alone talking about the practical education, about the professions in general and the vocational schools in particular. We are very pleased that the other parties have woken up in recent years, but we still record a resistance in the education system and politics that must sweep away before we can say that higher vocational education and higher academic education are really equivalent. The impatience of the centre party on behalf of the vocational schools stems from the fact that for several years the labour force has been asking for vocational schooling competence. It is a fact that the government has failed both in the notification of vocational education and in the subsequent budgets to put forward concrete plans to increase educational capacity and to address the growing need for skilled workers. That is why it is a great victory when the long-term demands of the Centre Party for a stepping-up plan for vocational training places and the development of new flexible offers are finally given a majority today. So it becomes essential that this is actually being followed up. We were told here today that the Right believes that it is important that others relate to what is required, but not necessarily to the sea. It does not promise good for the further follow-up to this question. Despite a proper analysis of operational policy, the message is not so very uplifting. It is to a large extent an estimate of existing measures and policies adopted. It is not only an observation from the opposition, but it was also echoed by many central hearing bodies when the notification was being heard in April. Among other things, it was pointed out that the notification lacks understanding that continuing training must increasingly become part of the ordinary activities of the institutions. The Committee of Experts, the Markussen Committee, also pointed out that, in order to expand the offer adapted to work, institutions also need to increase resources. That was also an important point. Among other things, the academics wrote that they therefore: ‘there has been a clear need to assess how the incentive structure of the funding system can be designed to provide stronger and lasting incentives for continuing training’. It's in agreement with the Center Party. We believe that the funding system is a key to getting the university and higher education sectors to play better on the labour market both in the public and private sectors. However, as was also stated in the hearing, the university and higher education sectors must be informed of their priorities. A message in this context is often communicated through the funding system. The option has been set by the majority to provide guidance on just work relevance. The Central Party, the Labour Party and the Progress Party do not intend to trade with each other or to penalise institutions financially if demand in the labour market is fluctuating. The point is to adjust today's system, which not only enumerates historical bias between institutions but also directly prevents institutions from fulfilling their social role in meeting the needs of the labour market. Instead of going constructively into that debate, we feel that the Right has tried to give the impression that the majority has snuffed out a fine proposal. We haven't, this has to be reviewed and presented to the Storting at a later date. At the same time, the right impression is that they are willing to change the funding system. Why, then, have they repeatedly voted against the proposals of the Senterpartiet, among others? has promoted a review of the overall funding system? Because it's been important. Labour relevance is one of the elements, but there are many other elements in the funding system that we also need to review in time. When this is adopted today, we also expect the minority government and the council loyally to follow it up no matter what the Right says in today's debate. With that, I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e482	The representative Marit Arnstad then mentioned the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e489	In the position we are discussing today, the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the Progress Party, promotes a proposal that requires relevant work after completion of study and work relevance in the study to be an instinctive/a factor in a new funding system. I expect the Center Party is well-known that large parts of the UH sector have reacted strongly to what they experience as an attempt to short-circuit the ongoing process of a new funding system. My question is, are these reactions that the Central Party will listen to? Let me remind you of what the representative Arnstad said in the debate on a self-managing UH sector. Then the representative Arnstad said it this way: ‘It also works with a unison pressure from the sector affected by it.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e494	Of course, we will listen to the various recordings that come in such a debate, and there will also be a full opportunity to review the funding system in close contact with those involved. But the Central Party seems to think that the way in which the minority in the Great Britain has met this debate is a little surprising, because first one from the majority gives the impression that this is shocking, and then one goes close to it. The latter may not be so strange, because when, in 2014, a committee of experts was set up to look at the funding system, the very question of occupational relevance was one of the things that a person wanted to include. Now this government did not choose to make so many changes to the funding system — they just made small, cosmetic changes. The Central Party considers that there is a need for a comprehensive review of the funding system in terms of occupational relevance, but also in other matters, such as: the ratio of basic appropriations to result-oriented appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e499	The cord shift is with the change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e504	What kind of competence do we need to meet the three major challenges Norway faces? Together with the rest of the world, we are facing a global climate crisis, which we must do to combat. In addition, we are an oil-dependent country in a world that is going to end with oil, facing an economic crisis if we do not create new industries to live off. We can have an inequality crisis in the wake of the economic downturn. Economic differences in Norway have already increased over many years. The Korona crisis is intensifying all the problems that have arisen around us for a few years now. What we need is a reform of competences that can help Norway solve the three crises at the same time. A strong green skills reform would be an important lever for industrial and business conversion that is currently too dependent on oil. I would like to remind you that there is a total accumulation that has committed itself to the entire Norwegian society being free of emissions by 2050. The government's response is a big message where the concept of climate is mentioned three times. It's no use stabbing your head in the sand -- I kept saying oil sand -- because the truth is that the oil age is on fire, and that a controlled conversion from the petroleum age requires an ambitious and planned change of jobs, skills and technology for the next few years. If we are to transform Norwegian society, politicians have to be ambitious. There are, in particular, three areas of SV requiring more. Firstly, the vocational schools will play an important and crucial role in tackling climate change and the green shift, and SV supports the presentation of a strategy for vocational education in 2021. However, by 2030, LO’s claim for 100,000 post-secondary education places will not be met by the majority and the Workers’ Party’s somewhat puzzled proposal of 1 000 – or 1500 – new post-secondary education places. We need to have a much more ambitious step-up plan for post-secondary education places than that set out in this communication. Secondly, instead of small, detached sector programmes, greater tripartite cooperation needs to be established, in the SV's view, for competences extending beyond different sectors and sectors. Both the public and private sectors must be subject to reform based on tripartite cooperation where funds or schemes to finance continuing education and training are established. It is essential that in such a reform, social partners govern the scheme and set the precedents for its use. And last, but not least: the Norwegian model is under pressure. In a transition period to achieve the climate objectives, it is essential that the Norwegian model be strengthened, not weakened, as it does today. An enhanced Norwegian model is a prerequisite for success in a green transition because the transition must be done on most people's premises. The aim of a skills reform must be to provide all with access to permanent and learning jobs in an organised working life with strong and responsible partners in a coordinated wage formation in all sectors. The parties shall be the engine of the conversion. The SV has chosen to call for a new green deal for Norway, calling for a comprehensive change in both the labour and education systems. There is no contradiction whatsoever between saving the climate and preserving income, industry and jobs. On the contrary, the only option we have is to do both. We need a skills reform that helps to resolve the climate crisis while at the same time reducing inequalities and combating unemployment. Because we're going to build the country green for the many and not gray for the few. I am therefore addressing the suggestions that SV is on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e523	The representative of Mona Fagerås then brought up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e530	SV writes in this setting that a controlled conversion from the age of petroleum will be ‘important for not losing valuable competences that we depend on’ and that ‘the vocational schools will play a crucial role in meeting climate change and the green shift’. I fully agree with Mr SV and the representative of Mr Fagerås. The oil and gas sector will be particularly important in order to develop new technologies and sustainable solutions, and today's sectoral programmes are strongly sought by the social partners. I record that SV as the only party does not support a separate industry programme for the oil and gas industry. Can the representative of Fagerås explain how SV sees that we are going to have a green transition if we are not going to give empowerment to those people who are going to both contribute and move to the green jobs in the future, and how this could be done better than through an industry programme developed in close and good cooperation with the social partners?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e540	Thank you very much for your question. SV wants something quite different than fragmented industry programmes. Like the UNIO and the Markussen Committee's investigation, instead of fragmented, partly overlapping and relatively small grant schemes, we will have one large scheme. That's the whole point. We can't do this problem and divide it. The green shift requires that we do something big, and that we do not exclude anyone, but include everyone, both the public and the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e547	I registered that SV addressed it in the setting, and I have also seen Unio's input, which may point more to other areas of competence policy than the vocational school sector. Because there is one thing about industry programmes, it is precisely that they are so closely connected by the social partners and the vocational schools in order to be able to deliver on what is needed out there. I have not registered that the SV has ordered any other specific scheme to solve this. What we now know is that this sector is becoming crucial for us to get the technological progress we need for the green shift. This is not a sector that we can turn on and off with a switch, and as far as I can see, SV has not provided any alternative. They write in the setting that it is important that we now take care of that competence, and I therefore ask again: SV has not proposed another, concrete, program or other way of doing this that will enable us to get started today, and I mean it's urgent. What does the representative of Fagerås think is the SV's recipe that we can now launch an important increase in skills for these workers as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e554	The SV is now working on, and which is our whole big project for the future, we call a green new deal, and in the new green deal, we follow the recommendations of the Markussen Committee: not many small, fragmented industry programs, but a whole, big unit. Instead of the small, detached people, we're going to work together with the tripartite cooperation, which extends across different sectors, as I explained both in my article and in the answer to the previous question. That's what our whole setup is going to be based on right now, so the representative can just rejoice and look forward to how we're going to roll out our new green deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e559	Tax incentives work. That's something most of us agree on. The positive thing today is that SV now supports this in terms of digitisation measures in the reform of competences, such as: the support for Competence Find Digital. This is a new policy from SV, so my question is simply: can we now hope for more positive tax incentives and tax incentives from SV in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e564	I don't think the Progress Party can expect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e569	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e574	Knowledge is freedom, and knowledge is power. We have become a modern, voiced, liberal and enlightened society, and it does not come without a focused school policy, where critical sense, freedom of expression, democracy, nuances, empathy and deep understanding are at the heart of what is to be taught and to be taught away. I am happy on behalf of students and knowledge seekers in Norway. With the notification of competences, the government supports and continues the work that goes on more competence for more people in society. Master's training for teachers and continuing training to increase and maintain competence benefits the entire community. In this way, the message of lifelong learning will build on all that has been done by the government in the past. We in the Left are disappointed by the opposition's proposal for a mechanical link between the funding of higher education institutions and the student's job relevance after completion of education. Such a bureaucratic control system is not suitable for picking up all the shades of higher education. Not least, it omits the perspective of creation and insight in some humanities. The reactions of the heads of universities and colleges to the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party demonstrate in all possible ways how they stand out with the sector. Freedom in the Academy of Research and Development is essential for us to invent new knowledge. The mechanical link to job relevance proposed by the opposition will only support yesterday's knowledge. How foresight is that? There is every reason to worry about the lack of trust shown in the knowledge and learning environments. I'm glad that emphasis is placed on flexibility and possible studies at universities and colleges for adult students. No one should go out on the date of Norwegian working life. The government's communication and appropriations show that there is a strong willingness to invest more in those who need to build their skills in order to get into or get into work. Our modern society requires us to learn our whole lives. When 9 pst. by all enterprises in 2019 say that they have an unmet need for competence, the intention of the competence reform is just to cover this gap. This shall be done by opening up the education system for lifelong learning and by facilitating a link between supply and demand for skills development. Through Competence Norway, specialised schools, universities and higher education institutions will be able to apply for grants to develop new flexible courses in cooperation with the labour market. In 2020, there will also be calls for ICT security, which are becoming increasingly relevant. A digital competence platform will then be developed to link those who provide skills development with those who need more education and training. If you are to learn your whole life, career guidance is also necessary, and it is now to be put in place in the form of a national digital network service. In order to stimulate the demand for skills, the government has also opened up additional loans for adults in education and has made changes to make it easier for adults to take secondary education. It is important, especially for those who, for various reasons, lack study competence and are now able to achieve their ambitions. Knowledge and education are nourishments of the soul. That's what I did with my mother. Had there been an offer of learning in all stages of life, she might also have been able to sit on the school bench long before she became a retired person. She brought up Norwegian again on her own initiative. She learned to write on the PC and learned to write simple text messages. Because it was so late in life, she never enjoyed this in her working life, but the eagerness to learn made her start as soon as she retired at the age of 65. A lot has been lost by ambitions, opportunities and competences. For the Left Party, the reform of competence is learning throughout life the very essence of what is important in knowledge policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e593	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e598	It's about colleges. The left under the promising title ‘Lift for the vocational schools’ has programmed that they will expand the vocational education offer and give more opportunities to choose higher vocational education. The majority of the population believe that it is high time to realise such a promise, so that the trade-union promise becomes more than just good intentions. The majority today adopts an obliging step-up plan for the vocational schools – a real subject-school commitment – which the government parties have known about since the agreement between the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre became known almost a month ago. We are not surprised that the Right has actively countered this academic promise, but what is the reason why the Left vote against and in the revised national budget will not follow up the decision of the majority of the population on up to 1 000 more places of study than the Right Government proposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e603	I want to show that this government and the former bourgeois government constellations have spent a lot of time and money giving both flexibility and freedom to people who want to take education. This also applies to the specialised schools. This is something we've done to a much greater extent than the last red-green governments. There's something we'll bet on, but in what form can I unfortunately not say anything about right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e608	I thank you for your answer. It is widely known that the right-wing government before the coronary crisis had a rather low offensive attitude to the capacity of higher vocational education. They provided only 100 study places in the State budget for 2020. Then came the coronary crisis, and the government scaled up, but only for two years. Recently, I heard the Council of State at a lunch seminar directed by Competence Norway suggesting that the capacity should be reduced in the long term. Unlike the Right, the bulk of the population will have a permanent upgrading of higher vocational education. Our escalating plan gives permanent places, so that the vocational schools get what they need – not just under this pandemic. The question is: will the Left agree to drop the capacity of the vocational schools, which the Right suggests, or will they escalate the capacity, to which the majority of the population and the Left's own programme aim?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e616	The left is concerned with competence and vocational schools throughout the education sector. The left will help to strengthen the vocational schools as well. The way it's done, I can't say anything about right here and now, but we don't want to lose focus in the colleges, because it's important to us that the colleges also develop, and that they have good conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e621	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e626	The business life of the future is knowledge-based, and the need for investment in skills will be greater than ever. Rapid changes in society and the need for new skills make it necessary to set up the education system of the future differently from today in order to create sustainability and innovation. It will therefore be important to have a policy of competence to ensure that no one is going out to date, and that the gap between what the labour market needs of competence and the skills that the workers actually have must be filled. Competence policy must further stimulate both individuals and businesses to invest in new skills. The structure of government policy has been set up to maintain, maintain and develop new competences for the future. We need a clearer division of roles and responsibilities for this societal mission. The county councils have been given increased responsibility for regional competence policy, and a new and reinforced effort for forward-looking tripartite cooperation provides the basis for further renewal, needs identification and appropriate follow-up. Strengthening the focus on skills development provides the basis for new jobs and growth, while helping to secure jobs by maintaining competitiveness. For the Christian People's Party, increased competence is key to a long-term transformation of Norway towards more technological, digitalised and green development. That's exactly what we need now. The higher education sector and the specialised schools are important sectors with a large societal mission. They play a central role in this reform. New places of study for specialised schools are an important contribution to facilitating more people to build new and relevant competences. The funding model and management system have been the subject of this matter. As the Christian People's Party sees it, it's important to have work relevance in higher education, but to go in and override what concrete factors and incentives should be part of these systems, before a person has discussed the whole thing, we don't think it's appropriate. There must be a process around a future funding model that includes close dialogue with universities and colleges. The participation of universities and higher education institutions and the opportunity to highlight incentives and factors that will form part of the future funding system will be strengthened. It seems to me that the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party choose to ignore the autonomy and academic freedom of the UH sector and to close the ongoing consultation process in the university and higher education sectors on the funding system by placing three criteria on the table with a scal priority over other criteria. From the Christian People's Party we will warn against such a detached process, which we notice a whole university and higher education sector also does. Running forward the intention of relevant work after completion of education without a holistic approach becomes a wrong signal. The Christian People's Party will also point to the central role of study centres in many regions. They are important partners of cooperation between education providers and the private and public sectors of the country, and they are important contributors in order to achieve the objectives of the education sector to meet skills needs, to provide study opportunities and to provide flexible forms of education to people where they live and work across the country. It is therefore important that the study centres have a predictable economy. The reform has a holistic view of competences that facilitate increased flexibility at several levels. Knowledge and learning also take place outside the school system, as it is not only formal competence that can ensure a good skills reform, but also the holistic look at lifelong learning, which the voluntary and non-profit sector provides. That is why I am pleased that, in the discussion of the reform, we have been given the opportunity to raise the role of the voluntary and non-profit sector in non-formal training and its enormous value in reducing the barriers to entry into working life. Further development of the Student Associations Grant Scheme is one of the measures that will help adults access good, flexible and user-adapted training outside the formal education system. Their ability to speed up courses of excellence close to people, and to actively train volunteering, are an important contribution to the policy of competence. With an education system adapted to change for the future, we have taken a long and important step in stimulating both individuals and businesses to invest in more skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e646	My experience over many years of working life is that people learn every day, whether it's about unskilled, skilled or other employees with different education. Several of the government parties here stress that no one should go out on date. This was also done by the representative Gruvan in his post. Government parties and governments have set a character requirement of 4 in mathematics to become teachers and have separated several thousand teachers who have long experience and wide professional competence by being teachers. Is it this government that doesn't qualify people for work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e653	With regard to the bet on teachers, no government has done as much as this. We've got a teacher's norm, we've got massive further education of teachers in school, and we've spent tens of billions of dollars in years getting to do just that. My impression is that the teachers greatly appreciate the efforts made in this area. With regard to the character requirements put in place, the government has chosen to do so with the support of a majority here in Stortinget. It is important that we have good quality in teacher training. Or we'll have to evaluate this at a later stage. But there has never been such a large supply of new teachers as it has been in recent years, and we in the Christian People's Party are very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e660	The Government itself points out that the measures included in this Communication were developed before the Corona era. That's what they say in the foreword, and that was before the economic prospects for the Norwegian working life looked different. Then one would think that the government already in the foreword recognised that the measures had expired. This is why the Workers' Party together with the Progress Party and the Centre Party are proposing 1 000 new post-school places. When you are about to deal with and adopt the message, is it not time to take over the situation we have in work and the demand for vocational schools, so that 1000 new places are adopted today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e665	There is no doubt that very much has happened this spring that has focused on the need for different types of competence measures, and that is exactly what this message does. There is a wide range of measures, there is more flexibility, and more education actors are given greater responsibility. We underline the importance of tripartite cooperation, which will allow more workers and businesses to meet their unmet skills needs. The trades schools are an important part of this. That is why we are contributing to this reform of competence with new vocational schools, and it will also be. The vocational schools are a specially organised, good offer that combines theory and practice. It will also be an area of activity for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e670	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e675	The communication we are dealing with today is based on the government's work on competence policy over several years. In the message, we put the measures in context, and we point forward. The objective of this message is two-part: No one shall expire due to a lack of competence. Everyone should be given the opportunity to renew and complement their skills so that more people can continue to work. We need to close the gap between what the labour market needs for skills and the skills that the workers actually have. The Korona crisis has shown us how fast employment can change, and how it affects people’s need to develop their skills. It is a good social economy to use this crisis to better equip people for working life after the Coronapandemic is over. At the same time, there is a need for policies to get Norway through the long-term transition, regardless of the crisis we are in the middle of right now. Oil and gas industries will no longer be an equally strong engine in the Norwegian economy. If Norway is to be a sustainable welfare society, we need more legs to stand on. That means we have to create more private jobs, and we have to include more in the workplace. Then we have to make sure that people have the skills that work actually needs. The message has three lines of action. The first is to stimulate individuals and businesses to invest in skills. For people who are in full-time employment, loss of income during a period of continuing training may mean that many cannot afford to do so. Already in the state budget for 2020, we have made the Loan Fund more flexible, making it easier for adults to study with the help of this important offer. We establish a permanent structure for the Competence Programme. In short, the Competence Programme is an instrument for the rapid creation of more new, flexible services such as labour market demand. It is within this programme, for example: The sectoral programmes are, where we cooperate with the social partners in order to increase participation in the development of skills in certain sectors. We have established a total of eight programmes. Six of the sectoral programmes came in response to the acute economic crisis. When I was at the launch of the industry program for waiters, I met a participant who had worked at the Grand Hotel since the 1990s, when she was 16 years old. She had long intended to obtain a letter, but the threshold was too high. A flexible industry programme was what she was going to do so that she could finally get what she had a long dream about. The second area of action is that we need to open up our education system to lifelong learning. In order for each of us to be able to learn throughout our lives, there must be offers that can be combined with what an adult life involves: time-consuming work, mortgages and family. In order to close the gap in skills, businesses need access to relevant and flexible skills development, and in order to achieve this, we need to focus on all parts of the education system. The vocational education sector plays a very important role in competence policy. By providing vocational education and training they already respond well to the needs of industry. But we have seen that there are some limitations in the law. We are going to propose removing the minimum length of vocational education, so that the vocational schools can make new offers that last less than half a year. The government has a long-term ambition to increase the capacity of vocational education. We therefore even proposed 1 000 new posts in the revised national budget. The comparison between the Progress Party and the Government Parties increased this figure by a further 500 places. At the same time, it is important that the quality of supply is further developed as the growth of study places takes place. This will be an important theme of the strategy for higher vocational education that we will present in 2021. Universities and colleges also need to respond more fully to the needs of enterprises and people for accommodating skills. The government has a clear expectation that they will deliver more flexible offers. At the same time, it is clear that universities and colleges need increased capacity to provide high-quality education to both first-time students and those returning to upgrade their skills. In this message, we warn that we will: assess the need for adjustments to the funding system for universities and higher education; Step up the allocation of increased study capacity through Diku reviewing the self-payment legislation; In the revised national budget, we have, among other things: proposed to increase the funds for flexible training provision through Diku, and we have proposed funds for 4000 new higher education places. The third area of intervention is the link between supply and demand for skills development. It needs to be easier to match supply and demand. I believe this message is a good answer to many of the challenges we face, but it's neither a start nor an end.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e724	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e730	On 12 June, I heard State Council Asheim at the Digital Competence Lunch in Competence Norway claim that he had not built fronts on the question of the funding model in higher education and labour relations. Three days earlier, the council had a chronicle in Khrono, where he spoke of the resistance to the proposal as massive and claimed that the proposal had done everything and all furious. Not in one word did the state council try to nuance the picture. Governments could show that many institutions, such as the University of South-East Norway, the College of the Inland, the Højskulen of the West, OsloMet and several actors, such as Abelia and Norsk Industrie, are positive to the majority's proposals. I would like to ask the Council of State if he sees that the sector and the labour market are more divided in opinion than he expresses when he speaks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e739	There is a reason that the chronicle came on the press after the setting, and it was because I was very hoping that the majority in Stortinget would listen to the feedback from the sector. I don't think I would have helped with that by politicizing it, so I waited until the parties had decided, until I said what I actually meant about this matter. One reason for being provoked in the sector is that this is a very difficult criterion, of course, but another reason is that the deadline for making representations to the government on governance and funding expired on 5 June. A whole sector, with 300,000 students, has been conscientiously involved in understanding how we can achieve these common goals, and then three parties in Stortinget close the one part of that discussion. I think that provokes a lot of people. When it comes to disagreements in the sector about the objective, it is natural, and it is good that there is a discussion, but the question is whether or not to close the discussion on funding as an instrument. I think that was wrong, and I agree with many parts of the sector that it was not very wise that three people in a back room did.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e748	I thank you for your answer. Governments continue to sub-communicate in a way that the sector is not unambiguously negative in its response. So it's like those who mean the most in one case, are also the ones who participate most in social media. When the Council of State persists in recognising only one-sided arguments, the Council of State contributes to both fronts and polarisation. In the chronicle, the Council of State criticises the majority of people for playing with money, detailing, horse-trading in the back, we heard, short-ending a process. The Council of State should also respond to why there is money play when the majority of the population makes priorities the Council of State dislikes, but not when the government makes budgets, and why there is horse trade in the back when the Stortinget makes agreements, but not when the government enters into budgetary settlements behind closed doors. It is surprising that the Council of State puts the level of debate at this level. Legitimate political positions need to be discussed without compromising on such a type of top-down attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e759	With regard to top-down attitudes towards this sector, I can assure the representative that it is not the government that has given it the impression. The majority of people have done this because they haven't been waiting for the answers from the sector, which have been asked to make recordings before they have concluded. The question that the representative raises is quite correct. There are some institutions that are more positive than others for this. And why? It's because they're doing professional training. So, if you do teacher training, it's pretty obvious that if you train a teacher who works as a teacher, it should pay off. However, the challenge facing a whole, comprehensive sector – and which these positive principals have also said is difficult to define – is what is a relevant job for one with a doctorate in history. It's completely impossible for the majority to answer as well, and that's the problem. I do not believe that when Stortinget grants money, it is to play with money, irresponsible or something like that, but I believe that some major, important steps, such as: for a sector that we spend 40 billion. kr in the year on, we should consult that sector and not short-term debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e768	The Progress Party is committed to facilitating the development of the oil and gas industry, the country's main industry, which creates growth, well-being and jobs across the country. I registered that the representative Turid Kristensen spoke warmly about the oil and gas industry and the industry programme, and also the representative Tybring-Gjedde did so, both from the pulpit and in his ‘promovideo’ of the competence reform, but this was not a matter of priority from the government when the competence reform was presented and new industry programmes were presented. Instead, we saw that renewables and hairdressers received their own industry programme before the country's main industry. It would have been exciting to hear a little about what were the assessments around this. Is it, as the Council of State just said from the pulpit, because the oil and gas industry will no longer be the engine in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e775	I think I said in my post that there won't be an equally strong engine in the future, and I think that even the rogaland bench of the Progress Party can recognise that we need more industries to stand in. The question is good, because when we made the competence reform, we had those we knew were going to be challenges, for example. in the retail trade. It was a strong wish of the parties. When the crisis hit, we gave priority to the industries that had been shut down, that is, simply those that the Storting and the government shut down, for example. the hairdressers. They had almost got a job ban, and then it was important to get these things started very quickly. When it comes to the oil and gas industry, I am very happy that we have a business programme about this, and that's also why the Storting increased the post by 20 million in its settlement. kr for industrial programme. Twenty million. kr is approx. one new industry programme, and there was also a very clear message to us from Norwegian oil and gas, NHO and LO that they wanted it in place. I am very happy that it is adopted, and I am very happy that the money was already granted, because it also means – I have had a meeting with them about it – that we can get started very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e784	‘They play with our money’ was actually the title of the debate that the Council of State had, and it says a little about the rhetoric, the exercise and the confrontational style that governments and government parties have put on in this matter. I have to say, I'm very surprised that a government council is speaking that way. The three parties to which the Council of State referred are, incidentally, the majority of the Grand Duchy. I get a little worried when the Council of State and the Right choose such a confrontational style and rhetorical highlight as they try to do, because there are four Roman figures that are adopted in the Grand Council today, against the votes of the Council of State and the party of the Council of State. The question is, Can he assure us that the decisions of the majority of the population are being followed up? And how will he follow up on the decisions that he here so actively talks down on the pulpit of the Great Britain today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e789	Let me start with the perfectly obvious clarification: of course, a minority government is going to follow up the decisions of the Storting. It was just going to be missing, and we're going to. What has been the reason why I have also had to raise my voice in this matter, is not necessarily that work relevance is important for how we control the higher education sector. After all, we have notified our own work relevance message about this, we have notified a management message about what criteria we should have in the future. What has been the challenge, which has created frustration in the sector, is that the majority say that this should be brought into the funding system. Then I hear the speeches in the debate today, and read in so far as also the comments that affect the decision, so that I understand that there is something we should consider against other things. If the representative Arnstad believes that I am now going to put this into the funding system, I would like to have clarity on it – if the representative has a line to do so – if not, of course, in dialogue with the sector, how best to achieve our common goal of more work relevance. Otherwise, I have to say that I got a broad side of the representative Arnstad when I hadn't briefly concluded the debate on State Building was going to manage the universities right away, but here you haven't even taken the time to listen to the sector, when they've been asked to make recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e798	I don't know what it is that plagues the right most in this case. I think maybe it's that they just missed a majority. But if the Right wants a majority, they get in touch with some of the parties they depend on to get a majority, either the Center Party, the Advance Party or the Workers' Party. They have not contacted any of us. So I think what plagues right here is that they didn't get a majority. However, the government, as a minority government, has a responsibility for following up the decision of the Storting, whether in the field of industrial programmes for the oil and gas industry and maritime sectors, joint selections, vocational schools or the question of entering the funding system. All four Roman numerals are expected to be loyally followed up by the government. But the government makes it difficult for itself when they choose such a rhetorical exercise and choose to go out as confrontational as they do today, also because many of us think it's a failure. There are divided opinions in the sector, there are different interests — it is maritime — and that is also one of the reasons why we should just go through the funding system in a sensible way. But you don't do better by confronting the way the council here does.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e803	Now this is not a question time, but a line chord exchange, and then I register that I did not get the answer to my question back, namely: does this mean that I have to put it into the funding system, or does that mean that I should evaluate it? It's a little bit unclear, to be completely honest. Then to the second. What the majority of parties say is that it's 3-5 pst. Or something like that that you're going to apply to this. It's up to 650 million. kr in the financing of the UH sector. That means we have to have some good answers to them on what criteria you have used to agree on something like that. I think it is problematic when corruption and government have asked a very difficult, united sector to make long-term contributions to the financing of a large sector, that it has already been concluded what one of the criteria should be. I think it's problematic. But of course we're following up, of course we're also going to the Stortinget with both governance and funding in the spring of 2021, and then I'm absolutely sure we're going to have a broad, good, responsible majority for a policy in which the sector recognizes itself, and which reaches our common goal of working relevance in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e810	SV believes that this call for proposals lacks understanding that continuing training is increasingly part of the ordinary activities of the institutions. During and after the corona crisis, we need to expect increased demand for both regular higher education and continuing education. We in SV believe that the university and higher education sectors need to be equipped for this task through enhanced basic funding, while the government is continuing the annual cut through the so-called ABE reform. The Markussen Committee has pointed out that capacity is already under pressure in the university and higher education sectors, and that institutions have limited opportunities to provide further training, without jeopardising normal level training. What is the Minister's plan for predictability in financing the sector, and how does the Minister think that the sector will have enough capacity for continuing training at the same time, given that we are in a situation of several hundred thousand unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e818	This is a good and relevant question that we also need to get back to just in the management message, because this is also very close to how we run the sector, not just budgets from year to year and capacity. But let me say some things. First of all, unlike what the representative thinks, we have increased funding for higher education. The budgets that have increased far more than the other budgets. Research budgets have increased by 48 pst. since 2013. In addition, we have announced in the notice that we want to look at the self-payment policy. It is simply because the sector itself gives feedback that one of the challenges is that they are unable to combine the training they have provided for the free-of-charge graduate students with the training for those who are going to take on-the-job training. So we also have to look at it in the context. It is quite clear that it will also be important to ensure that the funding system provides incentives for continuing education and training. That's why we call out funds for this through Diku. The different institutions come up with their proposals and then they get funding out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e825	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e832	The Labour Party will have better funding for universities and colleges, greater diversity in the sector and more autonomous institutions. We have long been committed to a comprehensive review of the funding system. In this context, it does not mean adding new components to existing ones, but opening up an overall audit to enable higher education to solve its societal mission. Today’s funding system contributes to the equalisation of apprenticeships. Universities and colleges are similar. Society has changed significantly since the establishment of a new funding system by the Stortinget in 2002. Work life is in rapid transformation. Norway is facing significant changes, the need for skills is increasing, and changes are taking place at an increasing pace. The Workers' Party will meet this with a stronger community and offensive competence policy. We ask the government to put forward proposals for a new funding system that better facilitates labour and continuing education. The financing system is not designed in this room, but of course the Stortinget can provide guidance on what the government's proposals are about. The role of the giant is not to be a backdrop in the government's work. Constructive cooperation across parties is a strength in a popular assembly. Representatives of the Right Party, who in the near past have negotiated both abortion law and biotechnology law in order to maintain government power, should guard against, or at least refrain from, calling negotiations in the Storting too unworthy. We are three different parties that agree on the proposal, but we have different motivations and different reasons for it. The reason given by the Labour Party is that it is necessary to pay for universities and colleges to provide continuing education and to have a look at the progress of the candidates in the labour market. The proposal for a new funding model will be drawn up in cooperation with the sector and social partners and will be dealt with in the Stortinge in the context of the biggest communication on governance next spring. We haven't cut anything short. We have a long, thorough process ahead of us in which the sector will be heard. We already see that there are different perceptions in the sector. Just so it's clear: for the Workers' Party, education will always have its own value. We want far more people to be able to go to colleges, colleges and universities. Of course, Norway needs both philosophers and nurses. We want all students, regardless of their qualifications, to be sure that they get a job that feels relevant. Society invests considerable resources in higher education. Then it was just to be lacking that candidates should not be spared to use their own skills for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e849	Last week I handed out the nutrition association's inclusion price to Brustadbua in Stavanger. They received this price for systematically working with good integration through work, networking and competence building. In the capital of oil and energy there are many values that have been created and that are now taking us through this crisis. Nevertheless, I presented this inclusion price as one of the most important things we are going to do in the future. The value of work is invaluable, both for society and for individuals. But we'll be more dependent on skills to stick with in the future. Education has been – and is – the very ticket into the workplace, but in the future not one ticket will take us far enough. For many of us, more tickets may be needed, or a clipping card. That is why I am pleased that the Right in Government is now launching a competence reform that will give more opportunities to learn throughout my life and to work longer. No one should experience going out on the date of Norwegian work, but the fact is that many are at risk of doing just that. That's why we're investing in people now, because humans are our most important resource, and it's the people who are going to bring us into the future. Technological development, artificial intelligence and the green shift mean that many tasks will change or disappear completely. This means that, with low or no education, they are at greater risk of falling out of the labour force and of being in the outside world. Therefore, the Right in Government must ensure that everyone is given the opportunity to learn and fill in with knowledge and competence. We need to learn more throughout our lives. Now it's easier to combine work and education. I myself was so lucky to have an employer who made it possible for me to take both a Bachelor's degree and a Master's degree while I was in 100 pst. work and in the middle of the infant phase. It helped that the University of Stavanger offered master education based on a number of weekly collections per year, and it was invaluable to link theory and practice. It was also useful lessons I could bring back to work. Flexibility I got 10 years ago is now becoming part of the normal. For no one to go out on the date of Norwegian working life and for everyone to have a chance, we invest more in people. We're going to learn our whole lives now. The reform of skills Learn lifelong embraces a wide range of opportunities: it will give people a new chance in the workplace and in the education sector, ensure that those who need it receive the necessary professional replenishment and open up the education sector to more people. The meter is to include more and make sure that no one goes out to date. With this competence reform, we are investing for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e870	This commitment to competence is very much expected. Workers need to be filled, and employers need up-to-date employees – everyone to keep up with changes in society. Education and training providers are ready. In Norway, we need to take advantage of resources, value creation and a high-skilled population spread throughout the country. That is why the whole country must participate in the reform of competences. Despite increased migration needs, participation in continuing training is lower today than 10 years ago. Several companies report an unmet competence requirement. The Centre Party believes that it should be organised for lifelong learning through the strengthening of decentralised and varied training provision. Funding is the key. To succeed, we have to bet widely. Not everyone can leave their lives to increase their skills. Strengthened and decentralised university and university services, including distance learning, must be provided. Study and educational centres are important meeting places for the dissemination of university, higher education and post-secondary education services and have an important role in the development of local and regional competences by linking local business and working life to educational institutions and to those who demand development of skills. Locally, they ensure membership of a study environment. Higher education institutions need to provide more continuing education, but it is also important that higher education, higher education institutions, vocational schools, study centres and associations of study more than today are used as centres of competence building. Basic skills, real-time competence assessment, specialised schools, informal adult training arenas and several good points from the Markussen Committee are important to follow-up. Professional schools and a real escalation, we are now finally getting a majority in favour. Hurray! We're following, and the government's announced strategy in 2021 is not good enough. Efforts in industry programmes in key industries, for both marine and bio-based continental industries, have also been successful. Catapults and tripartite cooperation must lead to new initiatives. Health is a field that needs to be looked at to ensure lifelong learning for good preparedness. Lifelong learning requires that there are offers that can be combined with jobs and different life situations. Career guidance and refilling modules are highlighted by employers. Flexible and decentralised education should be able to respond to local needs and initiatives. We should also be in the technology front. The centre party is impatient that we're going to realise our potential. Let's get started!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e885	The Solberg government has invested heavily in competence, from 2013 onwards. It likes the Christian People's Party. Competence is the basic plan of social development and the transformation of business, and not least of our progress. With the reform of competences, the government wants to improve the ability of the entire population to learn throughout their lives. Of course, the whole population also includes those who need extra help to be able to participate in the world of work, and they also learn new things. This applies to 800 new young people every year. The reform will provide the opportunity to fill skills, which will prevent workers from falling out of the labour market. The development of competence must be constantly renewed as technological development and green shifts take place, but also because of exceptional crisis situations, such as: The covid-19 pandemic, which we're actually in the middle of. A further development of the competence programme will create more flexible supply that the labour market needs. In response to the coronary crisis, the government has launched an industrial programme for the municipal health and care sector and the industrial and construction industries. In addition, there will be six new sectoral programmes. The Christian People's Party wishes to welcome the further development of the recognition systems for vocational and vocational training so that several countries and several qualifications can be included in the scheme. It'll be very good. Practical work is as necessary as academic work. Successful reform has led to good cooperation with the social partners. The development of a digital competence platform, career guidance and information sharing must take place in this cooperation. A great deal has been done in the counties in this area, and that competence needs to be used. The goal of the Government on Lifelong Learning is organised, including: with a strategy for higher vocational education during 2021. The Christian People's Party supports the strengthening of the quality of the vocational school sector and encourages more colleges to apply for vocational school accreditation. Christian People's Party supports a pilot project with modular training for adults. There will often be a need to combine work and training, and shorter courses of training will be a practical approach to continuing training. More flexible loan arrangements in the Loan Fund will make it easier for adults to study. At the same time, it is important that enterprises invest in competence. In order to keep up with developments, we all need to be focused on learning throughout our lives, not only in terms of working life, but also in terms of personal formation and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e908	The main reason for studying and getting an education is to get a job afterwards. Then you actually have to educate yourself in some market demand. In the last few months, we have, among other things, confirmed the lack of health professionals. In the past, we have also received notice of teaching shortages and lack of lawyers, and that there are not enough Norwegian craftsmen or Norwegian skilled workers. Universities, colleges and colleges have an important role in society here: they will organise studies that provide students with relevant work after completion of their studies. Study places need to cooperate better with the labour market in order to offer what the market needs. I see and hear that very many people are skeptical about this, and last week we got an e-mail from the Norwegian student organisation, NSO, which interprets this so far that they write: ‘We do not want the landfill to dictate the relevance of working life.’ That's what I think I'm essentially dragging this out of proportion. In Norway, you can take the education you want, you can be what you want, as long as you meet the recording requirements, but not all types of jobs grow on trees or there is as much demand for them. When one focuses on the relevance of the studies, it is simply for people to get into work and for our society to have the relevant labour force available. Then to claim that it's the Storting that's going to say what's relevant or not, I think I'm giving us on the Storing greater power than we actually have. This job must be done by the education sector itself, in close cooperation with the labour market and society. Nor is it about removing studies, but creating more places of study for the education we need the most, and facilitating the situation so that the places of study can do so. It shall pay for the places of study and for the students to have a relevant and adapted offer of study available, for none – absolutely none – serves to have students who are trained for unemployment. Finally, the government has notified a big deal about, among other things. the relevance of working life in higher education in the spring of 2021, just to improve cooperation between educational institutions and society. I look forward to that big message, especially based on the signals we have given here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e926	The working party has always been concerned with the competence of employees and not least with participation in the labour market. In this Communication, the government expresses the desire to facilitate the teaching of the whole population throughout their lives. As I said earlier, in the change of line here: After many years in professional life, as a tradesman and as a trustee, I have learned one thing, and that is that people learn every day – whether it's in work as unskilled or skilled, or it's knowledge acquired outside of work. That competence is also important. We know that in many ways it is those who have the lowest education, who also take further education. Those with a high level of education are always based on their skills, while those with the lowest level of unemployment have these major challenges. That's why we have to bet and organise the piece of competence especially in that area. The most important thing we can do in such a situation as Norway is now, with high unemployment, is to invest in the skills of its employees, not just in business, but equally in municipalities, in the public sector, in order to increase the quality of services and welfare services we are going to provide to the population. The adult unskilled workers are, as I said, the weakest and the lowest in the job queue. They must be given an organized offer that is perhaps more tailor-made for them, so that they can have a requested offer. The right to empowerment is important. It is important for all workers, and it is important for employee organisations, to ensure that all of them, so that there will be no exclusion from the labour market in the years to come. Therefore, it is important that municipalities facilitate short courses, continuing training, professional replenishment and inspiration from internal and external environments. All municipalities should have their own competence plan which ensures their own employees new competences and enhanced competence in relation to their demands in the municipalities. In the context of the 2020 budget, the Workers' Party proposed 1 000 new post-secondary education places in higher vocational education. It was voted down, but fortunately we have reached a compromise, or a solution, together with the Progress Party and the Center Party, with 1 000 new post-secondary school places in addition to what the government has proposed, after the Korona crisis. Last week I was visiting Chr. Tham's technical school, which has 250 study places and 36 study facilities. They have no problem finding study places and students who want to go there. It's about political will and about facilitating, and here we show three parties the power of action, unlike the Right and the Government at that time. We need new post-school places for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e941	This big message does not mark the start or the end of the competence reform. It is based on the government’s competence policy from 2013 until today, and in this respect there is not least a long-term and maximum necessary lifting of the vocational school sector. I'm very proud of what the government has already done for the technical school sector. As the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde mentioned earlier today, the government has now, after many years without any investment in the vocational schools, carried out a great promise. In the years after I started working with the colleges, I have described them as a little too well-hidden jewel in our education system. Now they're no longer so hidden. The importance of vocational schools in our education system, and not least in the policy of competence, now becomes even clearer and clearer, and many have really got their eyes on what this sector means. They deserve that. Schools have a more decentralised structure than colleges and universities and are therefore located in many places in our country. They also have a large number of online and compilation-based education. That's why the vocational schools are already well accessible to most people, including workers who want to acquire new skills at the same time as they are at work, which we really see the significance of these days. One of the most successful steps in government competence reform is the sectoral programmes. The industry programmes fit very well into the decentralised structure of the vocational schools and are therefore available to many who would not otherwise easily combine work and education. Where others have talked about delivering and investing in professional skills and vocational schools, the government has delivered. Without a doubt, vocational schools also play an important role in competence policy in the future. In the revised national budget, the Government and the Advance Party have agreed to increase the number of specialised school places by 1500. This is in addition to the 738 places created in previous years. The next step now is to present a separate strategy for higher vocational education where we will further strengthen the quality of the vocational education sector and also aim to increase capacity. For me, it is crucial that we be able to work to improve the quality of the sector while at the same time working to increase capacity. The number of places of study needs to be adapted both to capacity and to the number of applicants if we are to succeed in giving vocational schools the role they deserve. I am very pleased that there is a clear majority for the reform of competence here today. I look forward very much to continuing to cooperate with the vocational schools, organisations around the vocational schools, and not least the Organisation for Norwegian Vocational School Students, in order for the vocational schools to continue to play an important and crucial role in the future reform of their competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e958	I strongly disagree with the proposal of the new majority – the ‘trinity’, as the representative Henriksen called them to include labour relevance in the funding system for higher education. There are several reasons for: Firstly, I fear that the offer at the universities and colleges will be too much driven by short-term business needs. I strongly oppose the fact that economic incentives based on the changing needs of industry for labour will govern our education policy. Secondly, performance indicators undermine the complexity of higher education and university missions. The focus is too much on short-term economic benefits, above what is good for research and education in the long term. The sector must be financed through basic appropriations, not performance indicators. Last but not least, this proposal clearly poses a risk of the closure of several humanities. This is a subject that is already under intense pressure. Under the label «humaniora» we find subjects such as history, philosophy, literature and linguistics. These are subjects that have great self-esteem, and that are not easy to measure in dollars and cents. It is therefore so important that higher education institutions and universities are financed independently of competition or business priorities. It is not the case that universities train students to meet a defined need for competence, as in a sort of society box. It is necessary to ensure funding that is independent of competition or business priorities. I agree, of course, that continuing training should be strengthened, but today's funding system is going in the wrong direction with the introduction of several indicators for completed degrees. The proposal from this new trio continues to send the sector on the wrong track. The answer to the challenges facing the higher education and university sectors is no further designation of funds for measures to compensate for the inadequacy of the system. I strongly oppose the proposal and will warn against it, because it strengthens target and result management and weakens the space for action, trust and the societal mission of the universities and universities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e974	Let me get to grips with some moments that have come during the debate. One concerns the funding system, because there are several speakers here – not least the last speaker – who have said that one must not control universities through the funding system. But the state has always done so. All the ministers of education have always done so. I respect that one believes that an alternative to it is that one has only basic funding and no result components. It's okay, but you have a mix today, and then it's a direct or indirect governance through the funding system. I think the Council of State is right when he says that the relevance of working life will be to the benefit of professional universities, for example. Nord University or any of the new ones, in the same way that the requirement for the number of PhDs, which is above what is international requirements, is very much in favour of the University of Oslo, the University of Bergen or NTNU so that there is a governance in the funding system. That someone doesn't want it as a basis and says that it threatens academic freedom, as I've heard some of the representatives on the pulpit have said, I think it's a little strange. At least they have to propose a system that is completely different from today's system. I am also concerned about academic freedom, and I am concerned that we should not have one for the bureaucratic sector. I think the biggest problem there today, the most pressing problem, is the directorates that this government has set up, which are today acting like a kind of a mix of service agencies and agencies, and which impose new demands on universities and sometimes a duplication of demands in relation to what they have had in the past. There's increased bureaucracy, that. Double reporting requirements and detailed management are bureaucracy, and that is, to a greater extent, a threat to the academic freedom and autonomy of the organisations. So the Council of State said in a row exchange earlier here that adding work life will cost. Yes, it will. Each of the components you have on the result page costs. The student exchange component costs 100 million. kr, so it costs it too. The ABE reform, which the government presents to the sector for every single year, also has a high cost of removing revenue from the rest of the sector. So I don't think that argument is so very striking. Then I just want to say to the Council of States, after our exchange of lines: it says "shall" in Roman IV, and we're going to expect that the Council of States will follow up, no matter what rhetoric you put on here in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e987	I took the floor because the representative Nina Sandberg criticized the minority today for not being constructive enough in explaining the proposal that they themselves have turned back and forth on what really contains. I have to say that I think it's almost like turning on a fire, and then you criticize people to see that it burns and to comment on it. That's how it's been experienced in the sector. But let's raise the debate a little bit and look at this factor: relevant work after completion of education, which the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the Progress Party want to introduce. We had an expert group that looked at financing the UH sector a few years ago. They looked at different forms of interaction and concluded that such a quantitative factor was not appropriate, that they should rather look at other governance, for example. the development agreements. That is one of the reasons why we are now making a management message. Another way to control the sector is, of course, in the dimensioning of study places. In the education promise of 2020, we now have 4,000 more places of study that are just going to areas where we need to increase our skills. NIFU has a candidate survey, and that is probably the closest we come to the indicator ‘relevant work after completion of education’. There we see that those who get the worst out are non-professional education. It's realists, it's humanists, it's social scientists. NIFU itself believes that this should not be a factor in the funding system and that it will also mean that in recessions, bad times in the economy, for example. oil price falls, will be detrimental to technology and engineering training, including: at NTNU and the University of Stavanger. It's an unfortunate way to regulate and finance the sector. In addition, the representative of Steffensen writes in Khrono that the proposal will mean slightly fewer places of study in some subjects and more places of study in others. It would have been very nice for this debate if we could get answers to who it is. What's the relevance? And how is this to be measured? Is it NIFU's candidate study to be decisive? In that case, it is interesting that NIFU itself does not want it. I think that's what we have to think about. We now received an answer from the representative Arnstad. She believes that the government should go along with the sector, they should investigate and assess it, and then it has to be presented, no matter what kind of objections you have, regardless of whether the feedback is that it is difficult to operate. It is clear that you have then concluded on a model you want. I can agree that you have not concluded on the whole model, but it is precisely the factors we are discussing today. I think it's unfortunate. I would also like to say that it is not the government parties that have used characteristics on this proposal. In my post I actually only used the representative Sandberg's own words from two years ago. The feedback from the sector has been that the Education Association is wondering what kind of knowledge is giving decent candidates, the NSO and the social suites have criticized it; the NTL expresses disappointment at the fact that the Workers' Party is involved. I could still do that. There are feedback you should take seriously, before you delivered the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1002	The reason why I take the floor in this debate and spread out of the Committee on Culture is that I hear the term 'needs of working life' passing by here, and it has done so on a number of occasions. It's provocative, it alerts the efficient and sensible use of the community's resources. But I fear such an educational system. Ultimately, the outcome of the ‘needs of working life’ as a strategy may prove to be the true opposite. For what is the actual needs of the labour market, or society’s needs, in 30-40 years from now? The only thing we can certainly say about the future is that it's not about a prediction of the society we've had now. There's going to be something quite qualitative new happening – I haven't heard a single staging representative agree that we have to train people for jobs that we don't have in the future. But how does this account relate to each other? It's not going up. I often think it's a little funny to stand here and talk about personal experiences, but I have to do it. I have lived a professional life, a relatively long professional life, which this reform actually teaches. I've spent 43 semesters in a major in state science. The reason for that is that I got a job, so I went out of a couple – three jobs after that, and then I found out that now I'm going to graduate. This led to a main task and to a subsequent training which led to a first qualification. I have never worked in a position where I have had direct use for the education I started in the 1970s, but it has helped me. The position I trained for, or finished in the first place, in the 1980s, is quite different from today. This is a follow-up training offer that I have taken to. We've had a society where we premiere long and faithful service with gold bells and honours to endure in the job, as it is called. I want an educational society that inspires long and unfaithful service, understood in that way that flexibility, after-school provision and framework must be the rule, not as to me the exception. Take a look at this picture on the back of the wall here. I think most will be surprised to hear that the average age of the representatives at Eidsvoll was three years lower than that of the Stortinget today, and it's record low on Stortinget. It won't believe when they see this picture. But it says a little bit about today we have to take into account that people have to be on the job for a long time. We have to have a training system that also traps people from work for a long time and well and enjoy it, even after the age of 72.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1013	There has been a great deal about the funding system in higher education. Now I'm going to talk a little bit more about what this reform really aims at. The Labour Party will have a closer link between education and work – from primary to higher education and research. We believe that equal access to lifelong learning will require the use of the full range of learning venues in the education system, exploiting the potential of both formal and non-formal education. In order for everyone, regardless of their educational background, their economy and their place of residence, to have this opportunity, low-threshold services are needed throughout the country where people live. We in the Workers' Party see higher education as a hub for regional development and value creation, and we want universities and colleges all over the country. The provision of continuing education must pay off for higher education, but we in the Workers' Party cannot fully underline the importance of taking other areas of competence building into use – such as higher education, higher education, vocational schools, study centres and educational associations. Training places adjacent to the formal education system already play a role in the building of skills that should be further developed. I would like to remind you that the Markussen Committee emphasises that there are far more people taking non-formal education than taking formal education, and that non-formal training is very important for the needs of the labour market. We share the Committee’s view that more should be stimulated to participate in relevant non-formal education, given the establishment of a system that ensures the quality of the offer. We believe that the government should consider a system for approving non-formal training offers and that it would be useful to look at experiences from Sweden and Denmark. Operators in Norway have already requested an official authorisation scheme. That is why we ask the government to launch an investigation with a view to establishing a system for approving and quality assurance of non-formal competence. So, in conclusion, we want to promise that the study centres, together with the university and higher education sectors, are already helping to solve many of the challenges identified in the communication of competences. In order to close the gaps in skills and ensure access to relevant competences throughout the country, we in the Labour Party believe that the government should ensure predictability and funding of its many educational centres, while developing more incentives that contribute to the higher education sector even more than today to provide flexible distributed education across Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1024	The representative Grimstad referred to the picture behind us here by the mariners. The average age of the first potion was 42 years. By the way, the youngest representative in this picture was Thomas Konow, and he was 17 years old. If he had lived today and had been in the labour market, he would have been in the labour market for approx. in the year 2070, and if he had done anything other than to be a magnificent representative for the rest of the 50 years he could have been active, he would have needed a strengthening of his skills and a proper reform of his competences. There are many things that are not commented on today, but are nevertheless important to get there. One is that there is not only a clear decision on the funding system, there are also clear proposals and clear decisions from the Storting today on the right to empowerment – to have a sample looking at it. We learn every day at work, and for the Workers' Party, it is important to have the skills you get, for example. if you have worked in a business for many years – then you have a lot of skills you may not have a proof of. But if you get quit, if you lose your job, and if your job changes, we think it's important that you have your own skills – take them with you. The right to empowerment is important to us. It is also important to upgrade efforts in decentralised education. Today, the funding system is not designed to scale up what we need more in the future, whether it be continuing education or decentralised education. When we discussed the issue of teacher training at Nesna, which is quite legitimate to have different opinions about, it was not only from Nord University, but from several higher education institutions said from principals and others that we do not have incentives today to scale up decentralised education that allows people to train where they live, even if they have family, and to meet the need for important welfare professionals such as nurses, teachers, etc. Here I believe that the government must be willing to look at its own proposals from the past that help to reduce the possibility of a real commitment to decentralised education, such as. The scholarship cut. Finally, I would just like to say: in the debate we have had on the financing system and on the relevance of working life, it is legitimate to have different opinions, but I think it is problematic that the Right creates confusion if they want to follow up the decision properly. One thing is that you argue against, that's an honest thing. But what the Council of State and representatives of the Right do is to problem what happens if the government along with the sector will come up with a proposal without the relevance of working life, and the Council of State interprets the decision so that he says from the pulpit of the Storting that it is unclear to him whether he has to put it into the funding system, or whether there is something he can assess. As the representative Arnstad said, it's a clear decision, and the decisions the Stortinget makes today are not a menu government can choose from. It shall be implemented. Then it's interesting to get together with the sector, but the government is set to the job that we're going to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1035	I took the floor because I was surprised by the line of the Sandberg representative from the Workers' Party. With regard to vocational training places, the government has delivered, through the revised national budget and through the action packages against the Korona. The left considers that the mechanical target management of the Workers' Party and the opposition in terms of quantity does not support the quality of the contents of the vocational school. Driving higher education in the future is not just turning on a breaker, the world is more complex than that. The left believes that the large expansion we have proposed is good, while at the same time maintaining the quality of the vocational school offer. We have confidence in the educational institutions, and we will work to improve the offer and capacity of joy for the individual student, but also to the joy of society. The left started the education sector in Norway before the Workers' Party was even formed, and the left always delivers in this area, because it is a priority area. Learning your whole life is a continuation of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1042	Fortunately, there are a lot of people in this room who are really busy with our colleges. They deserve that. But I'm a little surprised that there's so much more focus on the number of places than there is on the quality and development of the sector. We also fully agree that there is a need for more places in the sector. That is why the government spoke with the Swedish School Council and presented a proposal for 1 000 new places, which has thus become 1 500 new places in the agreement with the Advance Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party indicate in the setting of contributions from the Post School Forum that they should have estimated that it is realistic to increase the number of places by 2 000. What is problematic about this is that these representatives obviously have not come to realize that the Forum for Vocational Schools in this figure has also included specialised schools which are not supported by the State budget and which cannot contribute to the increase we are talking about here today. So it's an unrealistic number. It is also an important point that vocational schools also need applicants, and it is important to bet on quality at the same time. This year the specialist schools have reported that they have a maximum capacity of 1739 seats. This is probably all for, but we don't even see if they have the kind of work we want or the quality we want. New numbers also show that 2,800 places are available after the year's recording. We do not think it is wise to ask the vocational schools to establish more vocational schools than they have applied for, and far more vocational schools than they are applicants for. This has to be related, otherwise I'm afraid it could go beyond both the status and the quality of the vocational school sector. The Government shall present a separate strategy for higher vocational education. We're going to continue to bet on it. It is therefore strange to hear the representative Nina Sandberg standing here today and almost claiming that the government and our parties are opposing the vocational schools. It is quite strange to hear a representative from the Workers' Party talk about a lack of investment in the vocational schools. The representative Marit Arnstad spoke in his post that she felt the centre party for many years was almost alone talking about the colleges. I expect that she was thinking first and foremost in the government she was working with the Workers' Party, as they failed to achieve any investment in the vocational schools over the red-green years – no investment in places, poorer funding and no boost in quality and development. As I said, I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the importance of vocational schools here today and that there are many parties that will strengthen them. But the fact is that before the government change in 2013, there was no investment in the vocational schools. Someone was talking about them, but it was talking about them. This government, in cooperation with the Advance Party, has not just spoken – it has delivered. That's actually what matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1059	The representative Mona Fagerås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1064	There was something the minister said during our reply exchange that made me respond. This concerns the research effort. Here the minister has no reason to sunbathe in the shine. Norway has a unique opportunity to develop a non-CO 2 society at home and to contribute significantly to global decarbonisation. To achieve this, of course, research should be a budget win. Instead, the opposite happens. The share of GDP in research and innovation is falling, and the truth is that since 2017, the share has fallen. There is also no sign of a green shift in the overall research and development effort in the field of the environment and energy. On the contrary, the indicator report to the Research Council states that the research environments in petroleum-related research are three-four times greater than those in the field of renewable energy. If we are to have a green shift, we need renewable research now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1072	I just have to start by addressing the last thing that was said, because it is clear that some of the challenge of measuring by share of GDP is – I can promise the representative of Fagerås – that we are going to be well over 1 pst. of GDP for research in 2020, but that is because GDP falls, so it is not really a very good criterion. But what we've done is we've created a long-term research plan that has raised research over 1 pst. It's stable over 1 pst. So the budgets have increased by 48 pst. since 2013. So to the debate we have on the reform of competences: I'm going to start by giving the representative Arnstad right in one thing, and that's that we're funding the higher education sector according to many different criteria and ways. I really think most people are for us to do that. What's the challenge of work-relevance, that is, what you get after, is that it's hard for the institutions to align themselves in a way that makes them able to make that reasoning. What we're governing is a lot of quality raising, capacity, dimensioning and development agreements with each institution in terms of things they can improve or give better quality. What job students get when they are finished at the institution is very difficult for the institutions to have power over — for example. If we train engineers and then we get an oil price drop. Then I heard that the representative Martin Henriksen perceived me as unclear whether we should follow up this decision. I think I was quite clear about that in the line-up with the representative Arnstad, too: of course we should. I feel that today's debate has made it clear that that is what the majority of people also believe, that it should be a criterion in the funding system. And then we follow it up. The representative of Asphjell said something very right and good, namely that the Nordics are learning all over the world of work. It's actually one of the great forces with Norway. We're often very concerned with knowledge studies at school, etc., we're looking at PISA studies and stuff like that, it's important what benefits students have from going to school. But what we're also measuring is actually what you as an employee can do when you're 40, 50, and 60. There are Norwegians at the very top because the Nordics have a way of working that makes us learn through work as well. We make decisions ourselves, we have a flat structure, which means that it's possible to evolve even at work. I just have to say that once we've been working on this in the context of the Corona situation, one of the things that's become completely obvious is that competence policy is difficult simply because it's not about one group or one sector with one need, it's about awfully many different people. That's why it's important tripartite cooperation, that's why we work together with the employer's side and the employee's side and find courses that are relevant to the people who need it right there and then, absolutely crucial for a well-functioning competence policy. All the way to the shoot: I am also glad that the Stortinget raises the subject schools. That's something we're going to benefit from in the years to come, and I'm also looking forward to creating a strategy for how we can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1087	The representative of Marit Arnstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1093	I am pleased that the Council of State acknowledges that there are many governance pages of the funding system, and many of them we must also be allowed to ask questions about. We have e.g. awarded publication for a long time without looking at the quality of the content of the publication. In the case of the technical schools and the representative Kristensen, who thought that we focused so much on figures: they reported the figures from the vocational school place sector were 1,783. It is true that we are above, but the government is below, and it is difficult to call it a strong bet when you are below what the sector itself has proposed. But what I really asked for was that I don't like being assigned to things I haven't said. I say that there is a ‘shall’ in the proposal for a decision, that does not mean that there is a chosen model, and it is also specified in the setting. That doesn't mean we've chosen a model, that means we expect the government to design and provide different options for the Storting. I think it is an advantage if we actually stick to what is being said and to what is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1102	The representative Nina Sandberg had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1107	Training candidates for a future working life has always been part of the university's societal mission. The OECD stresses that labour relevance is becoming more important in the future and that it can be promoted through financial systems. Finland and Denmark have already done so. Stein Lier Hansen in Norsk Industrie recently told the Class struggle that better education system governance is needed in the future: ‘We need to have an education system that provides the most relevant education for young people. There must be more interaction with business. It's not help in training people who don't get a job. Young people must be able to choose education they want, but there must be clearer guidelines.’ It surprises me that the Right of the Storing and the Right of the Government are in conflict with what the OECD is in favour of. Why is this so difficult or far from impossible to achieve in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1117	First to the technical schools and the representative Turid Kristensen: Here the Right clearly lays the foundation of one logic for the subject schools and another for the management of the universities. With the logic of the Right, when one sees that there is a lower number of applicants for teacher training, one can ask whether the government will cut the number of places to study in teacher training. To the universities, the right tends to give more places to study. It's strange that you can't do the same for the colleges. Study places are the basic funding for the vocational schools, and it is serious if the Right-Representative Kristensen believes that the funding that her own government has does not contribute to better quality. I visited the trade school Rogaland, which is located in Stavanger, a short time ago. They are developing new types of education, for example: in the field of welfare technology and health. They're going to be good at quality. They need study places to get it started. What is more serious, and which the Right has not responded to, is that they have basically said that there are temporary study places that the government has provided. I won't call that a bet. It is not in line with the words used by the Right in the debate today. To the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde: Her contributions well confirm why the Right was put in the process of the negotiations and discussions on this reform of competence. The right has a far too one-sided view of competence. In this debate it has also been revealed that when the Right listens to the entire university and higher education sector, they only call the principals at the University of Oslo and the University of Bergen, and then they are satisfied. I think that a slightly wider view of the sector and listening to a little more voices could have served the Right well in this discussion as well. I'm a little surprised that SV has no greater faith in the humanities and social sciences. I believe that these are educations that are relevant to the working life. I have faith in these subjects and don't think they're getting weakened out of our proposal. In my post, I said that the big message is primarily an employment measure for the government. The majority of the population today have made sure that the government has more to do. That's why, as many people have been involved, it's in place to remind the government that there's an obligation for this kind of proposal. It has serious consequences if you don't follow it up. I would like to underline, as the representative of Marit Arnstad did, that the government is to submit a proposal to the Stortinget, and that it is the Stortinget that is to decide on the different models. I am very proud of the agreement we have managed to reach with the Center Party and the Advance Party. It speeds up competence policy and has good and concrete proposals that will mean something for competence and lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1136	I don't think the representative Tvedt Solberg is very good at re-telling the history of the vocational schools correctly. It may be because the history subject is one of the subjects that is less relevant to the working life, or it may be because the Workers' Party does not see fit to talk about the promise made by the government in the vocational school sector in recent years. When the representative Tvedt Solberg boasts of everything he sees of quality development in the colleges, I support it. This is precisely because we have invested in quality through development funds for the vocational schools. They've got a lift that was extended over many red-green years. To something I think has been a little interesting in this debate, which the representative Nina Sandberg was also talking about: she pointed out that we need better management of the UH sector and more interaction with business. I totally agree. That's why we come up with our own big message about work relevance. That's why we're reviewing the entire governance of the sector, and that's why we're presenting a competence reform with industry programmes tailored for education for people in different sectors. What we disagree about is the one factor that they want to pre-conclusion about today. Then it is – again – a little difficult to understand: the representative Arnstad says she has not concluded. I understood that the message to the government is that they are going to present a finance proposal where this is a factor, because you don't want to ask the government to consider it, but because it is going to be presented to the Stortinget in a new proposal. That's what we're discussing today, precisely because relevance is very difficult to measure for a biologist or a chemist. It is precisely the criticism of the knowledge view that has dominated this debate – the knowledge view that education should not only educate you into one specific profession and be directly relevant, but that it should also develop a set of skills that are necessary to have in different professions, the ability to learn or acquire new knowledge through a long professional life. That's the kind of knowledge that one factor here can prevent, because it's quite instrumental and difficult to measure. It is not that when the social scientists go out and criticize this factor, they do not have faith in their own profession. I think it's a pretty arrogant claim to join the Workers' Party. They have great faith in their own profession. They just know that there are no professional training courses. They know that they are going to work in different sectors and with a wide range of skills that may not be directly relevant. They look at the NIFU candidate survey as a guide, and they see that they are coming out badly. Because none of the representatives of the majority parties here today are able to say how to measure it in another way, I guess that's the NIFU candidate survey you want to use. Then it is no wonder that the professional groups react. You should have more respect for that than claiming that they don't have enough confidence, because I think they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1149	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1166	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, six replies are given from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1173	Let me first of all thank the members of the Committee for their excellent and good cooperation. There is largely an overall committee in these matters, yes, actually unanimous in a few of them, thanks to a good cooperation where the result has been more important than anything else. In this proposition, the Ministry of Transport puts forward some issues relating to aviation, road and mail. In the field of aviation, information is given on the ministry's work on the purchase of air transport between Evenes and Bodø, and on a scheme for the transport of the north on a journey, as a result of covid-19. Proposals for decisions on an increased cost framework are being made in three road projects. Under the heading Post, work is being briefed on the arrangements for the transmission of Braille documents. In addition, it will include: briefed on the follow-up to a request decision on non-governmental airports, no. 488 for 2019-2020, of 7 April. In the proposition, the government proposes to change the toll collection on E16 Kongsvinger-Slomarka in the Inland. However, the Committee considers that the current reduced rate scheme for Fv. 250 shall be continued for passenger cars in tariff group 1 but not for trucks in tariff group 2. In addition, the Committee considers that the system for residents of Galterud and Fulu who are currently exempt from payment should be continued. The Committee refers to the proposal for an increased cost framework for road projects E18 Riksgrensen-Ørje i Viken, E18 Knapstad-Rätvet i Viken and Rv. 4 Lunner border – Jar and Lygna south of Inland. The Committee considers it important to ensure progress in road projects with the ongoing covid-19 outbreak. It ensures jobs in the construction industry at a time when the industry has experienced a major job loss. The Committee further refers to the report of the Proposition on the follow-up to the request decision, No. 488 of 7 April, relating to compensation for non-governmental airports. The Committee considers that the request decision cannot be considered as upheld. The government refers in the proposition to the general compensation scheme for large-scale enterprises with a high turnover. This is not enough and is not in line with the Stortinge’s clear desire and proposals to ensure the continued operation of non-state airports. Even with reduced operating costs, the forecasts for Torp airport show that they are facing an accumulated operating deficit between March and September of approximately 130 million. kr. A unanimous committee therefore promotes a clear and clear proposal that we are pleased to receive solid support for today. With a unanimous committee, which also promotes such a clear proposal, it is expected that this will be followed up. It's been a long time and a lot of uncertainty. We know that the Financial Committee has produced its results and its crowns and appropriations, but the Transport and Communications Committee is clear and clear that Torp will be compensated for the lost revenue, taking into account reduced operating costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1188	In addition to the proposals of a Joint Committee, the minority, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have two proposals relating to Ørland airport and Stord airport. On Ørland lies Air Force fighter base with F-35. Since the decision in 2012, it has been a major civil engineering site and traffic challenges. The county has had a large cost growth on the road, ferry and fast boat, and traffic figures are growing. Both the county and the municipality are good hosts for the defense and will really facilitate a good job. The municipality of Ørland has taken on the cost that the State should take for the airport in the last six years. Three million. kr annually of own money becomes too much for a narrow municipal budget. That's also how, fortunately, someone has seen it as commercially profitable and seen the connection between ticket price and demand on the route. Traffic numbers have quadrupled. Both business and civil life in a region of 25 000 inhabitants are satisfied with the offer, and they save about. three hours travel time each way to Oslo. The main resource of the defence is the staff and their competence. For me, it's therefore a paradox that we, as a state, build a fighter base to billions, but do not see that only 6 million are needed. kr annually to operate a required airport. Finally, it seems that the new Minister for Transport sees this context, even though only the minority support the proposal on the table. The county council has so far refused to take over the grant scheme before it covers the actual expenditure. In the case of Stord, they have been without air services under covid-19, and that makes it difficult for business and residents over time. That's why we ask the government to take the initiative to return to the flight offer there. With that, I take up the proposals No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1203	The representative, Kirsti Leirtrø, has drawn up the proposals to which it was referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1208	There is broad agreement in the Committee on the matters referred to in Prop. 95 S for 2019-2020. That is good, and it has also contributed to important decisions regarding both Torp airport and toll collection at E16 Kongsvinger-Slomarka. The outbreak of covid-19 has led to major consequences for aviation. A passenger failure of 90 pst. and, in part, has, naturally, had significant economic consequences for both airlines, airports and anyone supplying goods and services to them. Now we see that the situation gradually normalizes, but at the same time we must be aware that it will take a long time before we are back in a normal situation for aviation. I guess there's no one who can assume to define what the new normal is. Avinor has received significant funds, nearly 5 billion. kr, through the revised budget to compensate for the loss of revenue at State-owned airports. At the same time, a solution has been found for Haugesund Airport and further grants are granted to Ørland Airport through the ordinary grant scheme. Torp airport is the only non-governmental airport which does not receive State aid in the ordinary course of its operations. At the same time, this is a very important airport for residents and businesses in the region and one of Norway’s largest airports. It has been essential for the Right to contribute to further operation in a difficult situation for Torp. That is why we are very pleased that a joint committee is behind the request decision and that the budget agreement with the Progress Party introduces 74 million. kr to Torp airport. And in fact, another $14 million. NOK in compensation for the general compensation scheme, i.e. in total SEK 90 million. kr for 2020. At the same time, it is important that we follow the situation closely in the future. Aviation is facing challenging times and further action may be needed in the future, both to ensure adequate air services and to ensure airport operations. The government initiated a semi-tariff pilot project on the sideways of the project E16 Kongsvinger-Slomarka. The aim was at that time to contribute to lower costs for the local population. In our opinion, the reintroduction of full tariffs on the side roads will have too much negative consequences for the local population, and we note that there is a strong desire from residents to continue the system at half a rate. An overall committee endorses a common proposal which continues the testing procedure, but which introduces a full tariff for heavier vehicles on fv. 250. In addition, the exemption scheme for residents in defined areas of Galterud and Fulu is continued. It is a good solution that takes care of local needs. Finally, I would like to say that it is both pleasant and important, at the end of the session, that we can present a case in which an overall committee is behind the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1223	The proposition deals with matters relating to both aviation, road and mail. During aviation, the proposal mentions the purchase of air transport between Evenes and Bodø and the follow-up of a request decision on non-governmental airports. Aviation is an important part of transport provision and transport infrastructure, particularly in the northern parts of the country, where geographical distances are large and other collective services are few or non-existent. It is right for the government to take special measures to ensure that citizens have a good collective offer on this route, as we in the Center Party have also explained earlier. Aviation has been hit hard, and although the industry has obtained access to loans, that does not solve the huge income deficit. Norwegian aviation has been in a difficult situation for a long time, even before the Korona crisis. The government has carried out several tax increases that have weakened aviation and made companies less equipped to deal with the current crisis. In total, fiscal environmental taxes have increased by approx. 2.8 B.C.E. kr during the bourgeois period of government. There is a need for grips that enable the aviation industry to build up again and subsequently operate in a normal situation. The arrangements in place to assist air transport are temporary arrangements with different expiry dates. It is now necessary to clarify whether these schemes are being continued and what other measures may be taken. These measures must ensure that the aviation industry can maintain the commercial activity in Norway even in the post-corona virus period. In the case of compensation for non-governmental airports, the Central Party has been very clear. This has been repeated several times in the last months, through requests decisions and clear clarifications and clear feedback that the request decision has not been followed up. It is good to see that there is an overall committee which is gradually behind a part of what is on the request decision. The Government has referred to the general scheme of compensation for large-scale enterprises. This is not enough and not in line with Stortinget’s clear wish to propose appropriate measures to ensure the continued operation of non-state airports. Governments were responsible for compensating private airfield sales losses. As has been said in the past, an overall committee has underlined that non-state aerodromes will receive compensation. Of course, we expect Torp airport and the other non-state airports to be compensated for the loss in turnover, and ask the government to compensate Torp and also assess compensation for Ørland and Stord.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1238	First a little bit about tolls on the side way. It's a little bit of a fundamental debate. For one year we sat in the same room, and that was probably when it was really discussed, when New Veier made clear suggestions that the side road booms had to be maintained on the new projects. But after a good dialogue with both municipalities and county councils in the districts concerned, it was concluded that this might have been a bit softened. The left is completely for the user funding of new road actions, but we should not make it difficult for those living in that area, more difficult when they are actually using the normal route, because they are not going all the way. So we think the arrangement that is now proposed for the E16 sideways is good, and it is very good when we maintain the full cost of heavy-duty vehicles on part of these sideways. For the Left, the most important thing is when we build a new road and invest in better conditions for business traffic. Traffic safety and accessibility for commercial traffic are the main elements of the adoption of new road projects, in which case commercial transport by large trailers, in tariff group 2, should not be able to use the cross-roads to save a few kronor. We have lost the excellence of the entire project if we allow them to drive on these side roads. Therefore, I also think it is very good that we have received a request that the Ministry of Transport should engage in a dialogue to get through prohibited, so that you do not take the whole stretch. These large cars should not go into residential areas, it is only the residents there and those who have errands in those areas, who should be able to use it. To the Post, which may not be so many denominators, and which is not a big matter, but important to the user group concerned. One has to be adaptable given that, well, it has brought a little bit lower standards on the distribution, we soon don't have mail anymore, but we're replacing it with a system financed by the state. So I just want to say something about Torp. For us in the Left, Torp is important for air traffic throughout the East, and is today as a third runway for the Gardermo.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1251	We're treating Prop. 95 S for 2019-2020 with the striking title ‘Some aviation, road and mail issues’. I am pleased that the representative of Gunnes closed his speech with just talking about the change that is taking place in the postal sector, and I am pleased that the Transport Committee supports the Government's proposal for the transmission of Braille. All right, let's go to aviation. We buy flights between Evenes and Bodø. We have also had home transportation by aircraft of the North on the journey, linked to the covid-19 situation: there are 6,600 Norwegian citizens who have come home with that scheme – a total of 50 trips, most with SAS and Norwegian. The representative Morten Stordalen takes up the link to Torp, is also correct. I note that Stortinget disagrees with my assessment that we have followed up this call decision. I take note of that, but it is with great pleasure that I see that we have got a good solution for Torp, and it is natural for me to give an extra thanks and tribute to the Progress Party, who have helped to ensure it through the negotiations on revision. As the committee leader of the place said, here is a holistic solution in place for Torp. I'm very happy about that. An increased cost framework of three road projects is also addressed in this landfill proposal. I understand that side-by-side bombs can be perceived as an unreasonable financial burden that affects the everyday lives of its inhabitants. When a cage goes along a road that goes parallel to a new road, and one has to pay tolls on the new road, even if one does not run on it, it will be felt as unparalleled. As Minister of Transport, I understand that. It is important that the toll regime is seen as legitimate in the population. Then there is a good tool to finance road construction in Norway. The opinion of the Committee shall include, inter alia: a permanent continuation of temporary relief arrangements for the inhabitants of Fulu and Galterud. Of course, the size decision in line with the setting will follow up. It is my intention to follow this up with dialogue with the municipalities and county councils that are guarantors of the toll loan, and to assess the answers from them before we conclude on how to follow up this decision. I must then of course have a dialogue with the Inland and Viken county municipalities, which are guarantors of this scheme. My clear intention is to follow that decision, but before I do, of course, I must have a dialogue with those who are guarantors of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1266	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1271	Yeah, we were here again. My first question concerns Sandefjord Airport Torp. Already on 16 March, the Stortinget decided to ask the government ‘secure critical infrastructure such as aviation’ and that private airports should be compensated. A new decision was also adopted on 7 April, in which the Stortinget called on the Government to ‘come back, as soon as possible and by the end of April at the latest, with a proposal to ensure the continued operation of non-governmental airports’. That's why it was very surprising that the Minister of Transport, in the proposition that we are now dealing with, did not mention Torp with a single word, that is. he has with Torp in the description of the problem, but has no solutions for Torp, and he ends with: ‘The Ministry considers that these measures are sufficient to ensure further operation.’ My question is, now it's been three months. Why has the Minister for Transport not put in place a compensation scheme for Torp before Stortinget had to push it through?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1286	I take note of the fact that the Enlarged Committee feels that I have not followed up that decision in line with their intention. I followed up with a scheme for Haugesund and based it on the fact that the state where it buys air route services, that is, part of the minimum supply that it has been prepared for. Haugesund was part of it. Then we had to have an activity there, and one has also been prepared for the ambulance flight there. So it was my intention that Torp at that time would deal with the general arrangement. It has proved not to be sufficient, and I'm glad that we now have a solution in place for Torp. Torp has an important function, not least attached to the offer that Widerøe has, because they have their base there. So I'm happy with the solution that's on the table for Torp today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1293	We're going from the air to the ground, and then we're going to apply to the toll system and toll collection on E16 in South Odal and Kongswinger. There are actually two things here where the government and the Minister of Transport get the majority against themselves in the Storting. There may be a minority government experience quite often, but in these two cases, the government parties in Stortinget also disagree with the Minister of Transport and their own government, both in the case of Torp Airport, and in the case of the toll collection at E16. The toll collection on the E16 in South Odal and Kongswinger is a repeat, and we've had it up to several times in the Stortinget. There have been clear feedback from residents – I see there are some people in the gallery here today – and from local teams. I think it is unanimous decisions both in Kongsvinger Municipal Government and in South Odal Municipal Government. Everyone disagrees with the proposal put forward by the Minister for Transport. Who is the Minister for Transport actually listening to?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1300	When I look at them at the gallery, they look happy today. It makes me feel better. I want to say that I thought we should separate the two matters. When it relates to Torp, there was another situation in March than it is when we are now in June. And I think that's what we're looking at. We see that the reality for Torp is that they need more resources than we believed at an earlier time, when we found a solution for Haugesund. When it comes to the toll question, I believe everyone sees the problem in a side-way bomb. Here's a project that the Inland and Viken County Municipality have guaranteed. We have an appointment with them. Then I also have to say that now I am going home and follow up this decision, but I have to do it in dialogue with those who have provided the guarantees. I think the whole-hearted arrangement that the Storing Committee has come up with is a good solution. I think we should find a good solution with those in the county that have said nothing about what the Storting has done. They wanted us to go away from the new arrangement that came a few years back in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1309	There have been several rounds in the main hall that have been about Torp and the concerns that the government has not followed that decision. Of course, once the Financial Committee has given its position, we have a number in place for Torp there, but the Transport Committee and the Big City are going to do today, it might be based on an even higher figure, pointing to the predictions Torp himself sketches. Maybe it'll be 130 million. kr. My question will then be: Is the Council satisfied with the proposal as it has been set up, and will the Council of State assure that he will return to Stortinget if he needs more money to follow up that decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1316	Yes, I have to. If I have to follow up with more money, I have to go back to Stortinget. It is suggested that Torp be compensated separately for its net coronary loss. It may also require a specific notification from ESA related to that legislation. But I see the sanity, and I also noticed that the committee leader of the place did a calculation of this – including what is in the revised national budget. I want to give honor to the Advance Party, especially for the job they have done to find a good solution for Torp. I have not felt that it has attached our political disunity to Torp, but there have been different assessments at different times of what has been the real need. I have also read with interest the comments of the Committee, both on the preparedness perspective, on the Unionøes base and on the airspheric supply at Torp. Torp is an airport that is being run very well – it is my understanding of how it operates.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1323	The Council of State says that in March you may not see the consequences, and that it has now become different. But one thing that still hasn't been solved is the aviation school situation on Torp, which has a major impact on the operation on Torp. It is very strange that 110 employees and 8 to 10 who work in the tower at Torp should be sent to unemployment, and 400 students should not be allowed to continue their studies. Can the Council of State now, with the background that the Stortinget clearly says that you want to put Torp airport in place, find a solution for the aviation school situation at Torp and Notodden?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1328	It shows something of the complex of this, because here Avinor has actually left a supply free for a longer period of time, and this is a problem that has emerged in the final phase. My wish is that the ball should be allowed to carry on its good work, because we want to keep the wheels going and get more activity. That's my wish for Torp. I thought it was a good solution that was now on the table for Torp. I also want to stress that, naturally, they will be compensated for their lost income, but they have also had reduced costs. It is also the case that a good permit arrangement also benefits, for example, Airports, such as Torp. But I fully share the intention with the representative Hoksrud here. This is what we want. Now when we give funds to Torp, it's both because it's supposed to be a good flight offer, and because we want the ball to work in line with what's meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1335	I will refer to the situation at Ørland Airport, where they initially have an operating cost for 2020 of 5.8 million. kr, while the state funding is only 2.4 million. kr. In addition, Ørland Airport has documented a loss of 1.4 million. kr as a result of the covid-19 outbreak. Ørland is the country's main fighter base and is under construction. The traffic to Ørland is growing, synergies with the Defense and the fighter aircraft base are positive. In addition, the municipality is in a difficult economic situation as a result of the closure of Norway. It places the municipality of Ørland in a particularly difficult and special situation. The request decision on compensation for non-governmental airports is followed up on Torp, but not on Ørland, as we propose. Why? And why don't you see this in connection with the defence business?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1342	I am pleased with the commitment that is also for Ørland Airport. It shows some of the health we had when we were going to do this work on the basis of the call decision from the first stage, tied to covid-19. Then I can say that the Ørland will receive additional compensation of NOK 3281 000. I mean the wish of the minority is actually fulfilled in that case, because there is an additional compensation here. He may not be in the size that Fasterale points to in his post, but it's a very good tip for Ørland Airport to get through this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1349	We share very much what has also been said earlier here about this with the aviation school and the business that is there, both in Torp and in Notodden. It's very special in the situation we're in now, that we also have to be able to look into the future. Clearly, the pilots of the future are totally dependent on us. I think you answered that correctly, considering what was before, and so I'd rather go back to Stord Airport. Now, I guess we're about to go all the way around for the non-state airports. I have a short, simple and straightforward question. We know that the regular services at Stord airport are now set up until now, which, of course, also poses major challenges for them. The question is, will the Council of State do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1356	Hareide State Council - which in this context is not to be referred to as "you".
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1362	I also think the President will be well aware of the answer now when it applies to Stord Airport. I'm happy for the involvement of the private airports. When it comes to Stord, there are routes and some support for it. But the Ministry of Transport's support agreement with the Airport is clear that it is not allowed to be used as a support for the aircraft routes themselves. Therefore, it is not relevant to include the flight path as part of the minimum offer. The minimum offer we had was for routes that had more traffic than the route between Stord and Oslo. It is a real challenge attached to Stord Airport, because the support agreement we have there is with Airport and does not apply to air route purchases.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1369	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1374	Aviation is very important in Norway and plays a crucial role in the proper functioning of peoples and businesses, as our country looks. I know that the Minister for Transport is also concerned about this. He's also spent a lot of time in the difficult time we've been through, and he's still in, on aviation – both to have airlines that are Norwegian and Scandinavian once we get through this, and to have an airline structure that works. That's why it's very good, what's come to Avinor. It is also very good that we are now gradually finding solutions for the operation of non-governmental airports. If I'm not mistaken, it was when the virus outbreak came in March, regular services at four non-state airports in Norway: Haugesund, Stord, Torp and Ørland. As I said in the line change instead, solutions have been found for Haugesund and Ørland. One is not yet in the process of getting the traffic started at Stord Airport. So that's the situation for Sandefjord Airport Torp, which we basically have to deal with today. I have to say that it is quite special that a unanimous committee decides: ‘The Committee considers that the request decision cannot be considered as being taken’. Now I see that there are representatives from the government parties from both Telemark and Vestfold on the list of speakers. They will surely boast violently of both the government and their own efforts. The truth is, they haven't done anything. So it's been three months, and the government hasn't presented anything that would help the situation of Sandefjord Airport Torp. The truth is, the government and government parties have had to be dragged along to get involved at all. When they realized that the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and the Center Party had a majority, they agreed to the proposal. I find it a pity that it has been so difficult to put in place a system to ensure the operation on Torp. It is very important for the whole region, and it is very important, as other speakers have also been, for the aviation school offer. It is also very important for the Unirøes Airlines, which have important bases on Torp. A shutdown of Torp would have a very negative impact on the whole of Unøe's route production. But today is also a joyous day: Finally, Stortinget decides that there will be a compensation arrangement also for Torp.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1393	In 1952, the Stortinget decided to build a military airport at Torp, so that's not the first time the Stortinget decides on Torp. It was a corollary that decided to build an airport at Torp, 50 million. kr of the infrastructure resources of NATO, and in 1956 the first two military jet fighters landed. From 1957, the Ministry of Transport agreed to allow civil aircraft at Torp, and it was the speedy beginning of the modern and well-functioning aerodrome it is today. But it has been many miles from 1957 to today. Passenger growth has been great, and over the last few years, more than two million travelers have used Torp. The projections for 2020 were good. They showed that one was above the budget, and one saw a record year. But then the corona came, and everything changed overnight. Everyone understands that for aviation this was a crisis. Torp is one of the few non-Avinor-owned airports in Norway. It is Vestfold and Telemark County Municipality, Sandfjord Municipality and Vestfold Airport Invest AS as the owner of the airport. Torp, as the only private airport of size, i.e. the second largest and second busiest in Austland, became an extra hard frame of closure. The airport is important for business and is part of the social critical infrastructure of the region. It is then one of the most important airports of Ongoe, which has technical base and crew-base there. There are many who have a great commitment to Torp, and it is a pleasure that there is a unified transport committee that makes a clear announcement that Sandefjord Airport Torp has to be compensated for lost revenues as a result of the shutdown of the aerodrome, less reduced operating costs during the same period. I look forward to following the development of Sandefjord Airport Torp and am pleased that in the negotiations on the revised national budget at Stortinget there was agreement to compensate Torp for 74.2 million. kr. In addition, the general compensation scheme comes, with 14 million. kr, then the vows in total to Torp, cap. 1311, item 72, is 90 million. kr. It will help to get through the rough time. For Torp shall pass as the user-friendly and important airport it is too many of us, far beyond the region of Westfold and Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1406	Now we're going to treat Prop. 95 S Some things about aviation, road and mail. It may sound a bit gray and boring, but this matter is absolutely not boring. It contains several good things, and one great joy that makes us not only in the Advance Party to smile about the race with the sun, which now shines from a bright blue sky, it also makes the drivers smile, the Norwegian people, and especially the people from Kongswinger – perhaps especially the listeners in the gallery today. The thing we are dealing with now is so good that we have an enthusiastic crowd from the Kongsvinger area, so happy that they have traveled all the way into the Stortinge today just to listen to the debate and to celebrate that the toll system that was introduced when we were in government is not being reversed, but is being continued. But I don't think the crowd from Edsberg Border Council has traveled all this way today just to celebrate. I also believe that they have traveled here today to follow and watch so that there will be no new attempts at rematches or changes again, and I understand that very well. But in the light of the history of the matter, the facts of the matter and the fact that we are now fortunately able to achieve a wonderfully broad toll settlement, where the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party agree, I feel very sure that what we are now adopting today will finally become, and that there will be no new rematches. What is it that we are adopting today that makes this matter such a great cause of joy, and that there is reason to celebrate? Well, we're going to decide that we're going to continue the reduced rate system on the side roads, half the price on the side roads of new E16 to Kongswinger, also for heavy transport, except on fv. 250. Toll exemptions for the local population at Fulu and Galterud continue, we do not move the bombs on fv. 250 or fv. 175 – it would be pointless to spend a lot of money moving those bombs. We also ask that the government engage in dialogue with the Inland County Municipality with the intention of getting the sign of the county road over Edsberg by passing prohibited. This case shows that local democracy works. Engagement pays off. Action groups and grassroots can win. It is a victory for local democracy, it is a victory for common sense. This tolling issue should certainly be a major inspiration for other action groups and local politicians around the country. For us in the Progress Party, it is gratifying to see that it is actually possible to win in the fight against tolls. We see that the Stortinget listens to grassroots, listens to the people, listens to local politicians and supports its rapporteurs and not only uncritically and slavishly follows the bureaucrats in the state road services and little solution-oriented state politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1419	I must first say that if it had been as easy to press the government in other matters as in this, the world would have been somewhat easier to live in for representatives with concern for its state. However, the first compensation measures for our airports set a gap in the south-west region of Oslo, where a large proportion of the population are industrious users of Torp Airport. Last year the airport had a record number of passengers with 2.1 million people. As a result of the corona situation, at best this year there is a traffic figure of 800000. So the bankruptcy lights flashed, and it would be a disaster for this area. As has been pointed out, Torp has the second largest foreign traffic in the eastern region, it is perhaps the most important single engine in the economic development of the region, and it is loved by the population from the Dramens region to Arendal. With significantly better train connections and planned aerodrome railway station, the traffic base could increase significantly. Plans have been made for a traffic of 3.5 million passengers. The main argument of the left to embrace Torp is not, perhaps not surprising, that we are in love with increased air traffic based on fossil fuel. Our commitment is linked to the development of industry, a decentralised service to the population, and not least the need to thwart a disastrous expansion of the Gardermoen, where Avinor and apparently large parts of government see the construction of a third runway as an inevitable – perhaps a blessing. This spring's events, the violent growth of video conferencing and, above all, the air force associated with the climate situation mean that the “airy” expansion plans – excuse the vocabulary – on the Gardermoen must be put in a drawer, locked in, and the key thrown. In the drawer, the practice of our aviation authorities using several hundred million dollars a year on incentive schemes to lure the airlines to Gardermoen. Then we need to focus more on what it means for the infrastructure with regard to the road network and rail between Oslo and the airport if the traffic from the Gardermoen is going to increase by twice from 2015 to 2050, as someone thinks. Is there realism that a third runway and a new terminal should be able to pay off, not primarily for the Gardermoen, but for society as a whole? So someone says that Torp doesn't have the capacity to handle traffic growth enough. Well, the airport can, with relatively small investments, increase the number of passengers to 4-5 million. Most people who travel from there don't want to put their climate footprint back on their CO 2 emissions over Oslo, as they want with the traffic from Gardermoen. That's why I'm glad that a total accumulation today has decided to fence around Torp Airport. I'm afraid – i.e. I might hope – that we have to come back to strengthen the aerodrome further later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1439	In beautiful Haugalandet we find Haugesund Airport Karmøy, better known as Helganes. The airport is a lifeblood for business in Rogaland and Sunnhordland. It is important for many companies and clusters within, among others. mechanical, aluminium, energy and farming. It is strategically close to the port of Karmsund, which will be Norway's largest and most environmentally friendly freight port. The unique location of Helganes provides a short way to destinations in the home and abroad in connection with both work and leisure. Helganes is the low-cost airport of the West and in the middle of an important travel life effort. The Korona crisis has struck many abruptly and brutally, including the Helganes. But where others could be kept closed and shut down temporarily, they were required to keep open as critical infrastructure, and they had to, among other things. be available for ambulance flights. There were limitations on how much cost could be reduced, while revenue fell dramatically. The team at Helganes has turned every stone to cut costs and secure operations and jobs. It hasn't been enough. Therefore, it was an overall finance committee that stressed that the aerodrome should be ‘assisted to recover through the demanding time and be adequately compensated for the loss of income due to the virus outbreak’. I am pleased that the Transport and Communications Committee, an overall growth and government are equally clear on behalf of the non-governmental airports. The store has placed a clear order for the Ministry of Transport. The agreement between Avinor and Airport Operation AS is now being renegotiated so that Helganes can remain open. But there is not without cutting in the sea, and it must not be taken for granted that this goes completely non-scrupulous. The right hand and the government have been very clear that one should do what is needed to ensure the operation, and we expect Avinor now to follow up the very clear order. We have a clear belief and hope to the Council of State that one is confident that the ongoing negotiations between Avinor and Helganes are in favour of a safe landing. The aerodrome will be essential for the further development of the region. The announcement from the Storting and the government is on time, and the Right looks forward to the agreement entering into landing, so that people can also take off from the Helganes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1452	As the Council of State said, ‘Some matters about aviation, road and mail’ may not sound very exciting. Actually, we were not that excited in Westfold either. After all, we were sure that when two decisions were taken in Stortinget that Torp should be raised – that was a broad majority, a unanimous increase – both in March and 7 April, we would not have thought that the proposition would come as it did. In the meeting that was here on April 7th, I remember that Sverre Myrli was up and clarified in an article, all of which was otherwise nodded to, that the wording that stood in the setting at that time was also meant to cover Torp. It was clarified by the representative Sverre Myrli. That's why we were very disappointed when the proposition came. But I think it is good that it is as clear as it is in the vote, that the committee says that ‘the request decision cannot be considered as upheld’. It is a powerful diet that a unanimous big thing says it about the government's follow-up. One also says that it is not enough and that it is not ‘in line with Stortinget’s clear wish to propose appropriate measures to ensure the continued operation of non-state airports’. So it was serious, and we had a round of the same in oral question time here a few weeks ago, but that's exactly why I like the setting. Then I don't go into it, but I refer to how clearly the setting is regarding the importance of Torp airport for civil aviation. It is important for the industry throughout the region, but it is also crucial for the activities of the United Nations throughout the country. Then it was only to be lacking – when it comes to the government's decision to shut down society in connection with the corona, and I don't criticize it – that Torp didn't get a proper compensation, as it says in the setting, less expenditure that went away. So I'm glad of the setting. I'm glad that more people here have taken up the aviation school and the consequences for the aviation school, where it would make no sense that a few reduced employees would lead to several hundred losing their activity, and I hope it's all right now. So I'll say finally – right is going to be right: first, I want to boast of Morten Stordalen, case rapporteur and Westfolding, but in addition, it's Swearer Myrli. The two together have really pulled this load by putting in place a decision that the government is now going to have to follow up. Because it's like when Myrli and Stordalen now have a majority with the Center Party, we see that the government parties also join, and that's good for the case and for Torp in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1463	There has been a lot of talk about Torp, but like the representative Stokkebø, I want to talk about another airport. Not everyone took the wave when the solution for Haugesund airport was chosen, but when it became a privatized solution, of course, the intention of good operation is supported. The representative Place and several others have mentioned that a solution has been found at Haugesund Airport, and the Council of State also said so, but the representatives on the Rogalands bench are, however, receiving concerns from the operating organisation Airport development. Indeed, the aid to the airport is to be paid by Avinor and Avinor is not. This pulls out, and the organisation, i.e. airport development, that operates the airport is now signaling challenges of operation as a result of this slowdown in compensation and payment. Then I will be quite brief and say that therefore I am asking the Council of State to ensure that the compensation is negotiated, and that it is settled and paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1474	I'll come back a little bit to the situation of the bomb question on the E16 in South Odal and Kongswinger. Just to start off, it's not the first time we've had discussions about whether it's right to cross-road bombs or not. I think we just have to admit that it's not possible to assume that it's going to be like this or something, that you're either going to have a side road bomb – on all side roads – or you're not going to have a side road bomb. It must be assessed on a case-by-case basis, in each road project, and it must be done correctly. Firstly, it should not be the case that those who do not use a new road have to pay tolls, but we cannot get into a situation where traffic on the new road is being heavily rejected, that people instead choose to drive old roads and drive through residential areas and other places. It must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Here, it's been hard to find a solution for E16 and the South Odal and Kongswinger sideways. Therefore, a good deal of work was done to find a solution that it was accepted for locally. It was supposed to be a test arrangement, that's right. It is in a way that the Minister of Transport now proposes to the Stortinget to go away from, and in reality go back to the system that the State Road Service has always wanted, but against which there has been very great local resistance. If the Road Service were to get through to move the bomb, like they were. wishes on fv. 250, the old road on the north side of Glomma, for those who are known, would mean that even more people would have to pay for not using a new road at all. For example, the entire town of Edsberg, which has Kongswinger as its vicinity, would have to pay tolls without driving a single meter on another E16. We just can't have it like that. That is why it is good that we have now found a solution to which there is unanimous support in the Stortinget: that we continue today's bombings at Fulu and Galterud, that we continue to reduce the rate, i.e. half the rate compared to what it is at E16, and that it is continued for passenger cars and trucks at Fv. 175 and for passenger cars on e.g. 250, that's old E16, old rv. 2nd@item: inlistbox It is also important that the current system of exemptions for residents in defined areas of Galterud and Fulu be continued, and that solutions – I would ask the Minister of Transport to note this – are also available with the Inland County Municipality that the road over Edsberg is separated by ‘No driving’. This was a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1490	If the government had got what it wanted, it would now have been disastrous for Torp – fortunately, it didn't. I am pleased that the Stortinget now says clearly that a system should be set up for Torp. However, I have to say that I have heard that representatives of the government parties have said that they have helped to ensure that this has come into place, I have heard that the representative Grimstad has said that this was very easy to do. But it can't have been that easy, because we've been dragging the government after us for the third time for the purpose of putting this compensation system in place for Torp. This should have been sorted out in the light of the request decisions that Stortinget has taken twice before, and that are now coming today. I believe that Torp is an incredibly important airport, and the case rapporteur, Morten Stordalen, and the representative, Sverre Myrli, have fought a lot, together with Dag Terje Andersen, and representatives from our counties. But there has been some easy matter – we get a partial solution, there is money in the revised budget, but I think you get the situation that if the challenge continues, you still need more money. We are pleased that the committee is now so unambiguously saying that we should have this in place, because it means a huge amount to aviation, which means a huge amount to Repentance in terms of commercial activities. That's why this is important to get in place. Ninety million. kr is not enough. But to say that it's been easy to drag the government to get to this – I guess you might think it looks like you've got a third decision to put it in place. I'm glad it's now in place, but I also expect and hope that the government will take on the fact that it's stupid to send 110 people on unemployment leave, that it's stupid to put air traffic controllers on unemployment leave, and that it's stupid to put 400 students on hold for the education they're going to take. There are actually small amounts of money that are needed to put in place a system for them as well – in that we now have a compensation scheme for Torp. This is, as I said, a very important airport, and I'm glad that the Storting is doing what it does, but that's despite the government. The government did not want to do this and thought that they had responded to the request decisions, which at least does not mean the Progress Party. That's why we're very clear that now it's coming, and fortunately it's a one-voiced big thing that says Torp is going to stay there. There is a compensation scheme in place, but I think we need to come back one more time to get enough money in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1503	The centre batch, like the other batches mentioned here, has been very clear in the case of Torp. What we hanged ourselves in the first place was the government's reason for not looking at this as a social critical infrastructure in the region. That's pretty special. Airports are part of the emergency response for ambulance and donor flights and are important for the region’s fire preparedness. Torp is the unloading aerodrome on the east of the Gardermoen and is strategically very important, especially for us who are busy not getting the third runway. We must not forget that they are the backbone of the technical and the crew – absolutely crucial for the Unesøe to be able to operate anything else in the country at all. They have a shared storage function, and it is that if Torp had been shut down, it would have consequences for everything else in the country. For us, preparedness has been very important when this assessment has been made by Torp. There are probably many people who can talk about the number of passengers, the size of the aerodrome, the possibility of development. Now it hasn't been the biggest problem right now, once you've shut down quite a lot, but when you shut down a place that initially everyone else is dependent on, it's amazing that it has to take two petitions plus what's happening today, to get it settled. We've been to Ørland, and when it's said that there's going to be extraordinary funds to the municipality of Ørland and Ørland, I'll say it's a little bit the same there. If we look at it historically – the representative Sundbø Abrahamsen was involved in this with Torp as a military base – then we see around the country that the link between military bases and the offers that have been out in the districts has been connected. For me, it's amazing that there's not just a bell ringing in the case of Ørland – that's that Ørland, Norway's second-largest fighter base through the times, where you gather all the power in one place, shouldn't be able to have predictable solutions to transport people to and from the base. You could actually just talk about the defence business. This must take place after this crisis is over, so that Ørland gets the status they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1512	I really didn't intend to keep any long, flaming posts here today. SV tries to raise its eyes and look at the large lines of transport. I think the members of the committee know that we have some fundamental positions that are quite different from the majority of the committee, very often. What makes me take the floor anyway is to say a little bit – or give a little explanation of why we are there. There were probably a lot of people in the committee who thought that SV had got the sun set, or that Nävra was in a particularly good mood on the day we gave the setting, because we are in all the common comments. First, it wasn't on autopilot that I voted to have the E18 projects and increase the cost framework for them. So now the battle for the expansion of these motorways has stood, and then, especially in this corona situation of counter-cyclical policy, etc., it is crucial that entrepreneurs keep the wheels going, even if we would all prefer to turn that activity against the railway. I think everyone in this room understands that when there's an SV talking. So it's this side way. We are also inside the comment with an argument that I can copy from the representative Myrli. I think he had a very balanced view of it. It's for and against, and our conclusion is that we should end up on that side. So that's Sandefjord Airport Torp. We're in there, too. This is an airport that's very important to Onlooke. It is probably not a secret either that SV has a completely different attitude to the short-haul network and the air traffic that is necessary, absolutely essential for the domestic air traffic that set new records before the Korona arrived. We fly as much as a country with 50 million inhabitants if it had been the average in Europe – think about it. It was also this that the representative Grimstad was inside. We have to raise our eyes and look at it gradually. I also do not vote on autopilot to support Torp, but now it is necessary. I think the state council had come on the track – was about to say the runway – if not for long, anyway, but it's a shame that it would take as long as it went. But now we have to raise our eyes, just as the representative Grimstad said. Now we have to look at what habits we've got after the corona. This is an incredibly interesting period for Norwegian aviation and also for the environment. We have to look at this, and we have to take some grips that go more in the green direction. I guess that's all I can say, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1525	Thank you – at least the mood kept up!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1530	I just want to link some comments to some of the things that have emerged in the debate. I don't think there's going to be any doubt that on our part – from the government parties on the right – we've been busy finding a solution for Torp that means we could still be operating at the airport. It turned out that, through the general compensation scheme, it was not possible to achieve it in a reasonable way. This means that there is a need for stronger instruments. That is why we have tried to be constructive in the dialogue within the Committee. I am very pleased that we have a joint committee that is actually behind the proposal that is now under consideration, and that we are going to vote for today. I am also pleased that we have had a good cooperation, not least with the Progress Party, to get budgetary resources for this in the revised budget. That's what triggers that we're actually doing something that helps to keep the operations at the airport going well. We can probably try different history writings, but the most important thing for me is that there is a collective majority, a collective committee, that wants a solution, and that contributes to a solution. I think that's the most important thing for the airport and for further operations at Torp – namely that there is an overall committee that joins this recommendation. The goal is not to spend more money on this in the future. The goal must be that we manage to normalize the situation as quickly as possible, so that also Sandefjord Airport Torp can come back in a normal situation as quickly as possible. There is no aim in itself to spend the most money on support in this corona phase. The aim must be to use sufficient resources to get them through the situation. The best thing is that we can have a private airport, like Sandefjord Airport Torp, that can manage without state subsidies – as it has done for years now. That's the best basis for operation at Torp, and that's what we have to work towards in the longer term. At the same time, we understand that we need to help Torp through this crisis situation, the demanding situation for Norwegian aviation. We're doing that through this system, and I think it's incredibly good that there's an overall committee that's behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1541	I also agree that this matter should have been settled far earlier – and preferably in the first round. It may also be related to the fact that Sandefjord Airport is a relatively small job with relatively few employees, and where the amount of aid is relatively high if it is seen in relation to the number of employees. It is also true that Sandefjord airport has very significant ring-effects for very many other companies, as also mentioned, among others. Unh! Unh! It's a very bad thing that there's been so much uncertainty about so many people and businesses, and not least about aviation schools and flight schools students and other activities. I also find it strange that the airport’s importance for social security has not been assessed higher. But now that we have reached a common amount, a common proposal for a decision, it must also mean recognising the importance of Sandefjord airport for social security. Sandefjord airport Torp is therefore the largest non-state airport, and it has a very significant impact on the region – not only for Westfold and Telemark, but on the entire route from Arendal to Asker. I am very pleased with the attitude of the committee, and that it is unanimous. I am very pleased that the Stortinget now seems to make a good decision to compensate Sandefjord airport Torp's loss of income. This case also shows how important it is for many politicians from several parties to engage. So a great thank you to everyone who has contributed to landing this case. It's important that aviation return to normal quickly, and it's probably the airlines that have lost the most on the corona pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1552	I'll comment on some of the challenges I've been given. I also want to start by saying that I think Arne Nävra points to an important perspective when he says that the cost increases we have seen, it's very good that a total increase accepts, precisely because we can keep the activity going, and we need it. Then it is Øystein Langholm Hansen and Alexander Stokkebø, who ask and challenge close to Haugesund. It is true that I said that it is in port, but it is true that Langholm Hansen said: there are now negotiations between Avinor and Haugesund, and I hope that there will be a good solution from now on and for some time to come. We don't know how long this will take, and I think that's one of the challenges we've seen here: how long would the covid-19 situation affect aviation? We have to be sure that we also have to be able to handle these kinds of things to the cottage. After all, the Storting and the government, I thought, worked very well together. We put forward a loan guarantee scheme for the airlines of 6 billion. kr, we removed to say all the charges related to aviation, we have put in place permitting schemes, and we have certainly postponed the employer's fee for a period – we have done a lot, but I think we also have to look at what is necessary. We need an aviation after covid-19, we also need airlines after covid-19, and it's not safe we've delivered the last stage to achieve that goal. We need to have a close dialogue about the future, not least for the autumn. So it's the representative Sverre Myrli, who asks me to contact the Inland to get a restraining sign on the road over Eidsberg. That's what I'm configured to do. I have to have a dialogue with the Inland and with the Swedish County Council, because they are guarantors on this road. Therefore, if I am to follow up on the decision here – and that is my clear intention – I must have dialogue with them, and then I think it is a good proposal to make. I also have faith in a good dialogue with both the guarantee system and the proposal that lies here in the Stortinget, which I believe the Inland will accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1565	It is always nice to talk – indirectly – to the representative Hoksrud in relation to Torp Airport. We're pretty much in agreement there. Now we're not going to make this any NM in who's best to push the government, but I think the government parties here at Stortinget have had a significant finger in the game, as far as I know them. So I have to say a little bit about the aviation school, since it's been mentioned several times. So the flying school is private, and it can operate as long as the tower at Torp is open. The tower at Torp is not Torp airport's cause; it's driven by the state, to say it like that. The airline school has received an offer to keep it going as long as they pay for it. They said no to that. Therefore, the flight school can operate only within the aerodrome’s limited opening time. So we have to be careful about mixing support for Torp with support for the aviation school, but we're going to keep pushing the state council. 74.2 million. kr will last until August once for Torp Airport. Then the traffic is likely to rise again, and so the airport has to be fully staffed, i.e. with restaurants, with check-in counters, etc. That's when the big losses come, so we have to be prepared that we have to get back to Torp. The airlines have said that they expect traffic up to the turn of the year to be just 50-60 pst. Of what it has normally been, so it would have been nice to hear the council say here that there is hope in hanging cords.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1574	The representative Bengt Fasterale has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1579	I just want to take the opportunity to also say that we are very clear on what is proposed by changes in the toll collection on the E16 Kongswinger–Slomarka in the Inland. Now this is described very well, and there has been a good process both between the parties internally here on the Stortinget and – not least – also in contact with the different parties locally. It's very positive. Now it was said that here the Council of State must contact the Inland. That's what he said himself. I am absolutely convinced that with the adjustments made here, state politicians in the interior will see this as positive, not least that a system has been found that fits the local conditions and also ensures that it is good in terms of traffic considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1584	I'm not going to draw out the debate for a long time, I just want to give you a little summary. The representative Johnsen was in the pulpit talking about the sun and the blue sky, and I think that's what many people have seen and discovered. Arne Nävra was on the pulpit and talked about sunspots as his explanation of why SV supported and participated in both tolls and airport. I think it bears witness to a promise for democracy when the Council of State Hareide from the interlocutors gives honor to a representative – it is not often I have experienced it – and likewise Swearer Myrli from the Workers' Party and Dag Terje Andersen from the Workers' Party. It's nice, I mean, it actually promises democracy when we can be generous with each other. I thank you for that. So I think it's very positive that you can get together about the important things, that's what the Storting has shown over and over again. But also here, when the government is wrong, the Storting is tightening up and making sure that we get an agreement, including with the government parties – yes, a unanimous committee is tightening up and making sure that we save Sandefjord airport Torp.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1594	The representative Grimstad said it wasn't that hard to do, but it's clear that when you know that you have a majority against you, it's not that hard, unless you want a proper loss. What you're going to have to be satisfied with now is that there's going to be a lot of money in place. But as I said, I think there's going to be discussions about this and also about aviation in general, because it can take time before you get back to the normal you want. Then the representative Nävra and I are quite disagreeable, because he prefers the planes not to fly. I want planes to fly, and I think it's really great that there's a lot of people flying. I'm not concerned that we're going to reduce the number that flies in Norway, I think it's good that you can fly a lot. It's just looking out of the window, you see why you need to fly. I also want to get back to the road case and tolls, to get a good order in place now shows that local engagement, to stand on, to really get to something – that's when it's possible to succeed. In fact, it is possible for the Storting to make sure that the government also turns around, or at least that the government follows the decision to collapse, which makes it possible to maintain to a large extent the system that has been in place and that at least those who live there have been very pleased with and wish to continue. It's a little hopeless that you have to pay for a road you don't use at all, because you live along the side road. I think those who live at Fulu and Galterud, and those who have been at the head of this, are going to celebrate today, and I get that very well, because it's a very good day for them. So really it's a good day, but although it's blue sky out now, I'm probably afraid that for Torp it won't be completely blue sky forward. It's going to be challenges, but we're going to follow closely. At least that's what I'm going to do, because we have to make sure that Torp airport is there and is a good airport when we're going back to normal again. It means an incredible amount, especially for the commercial activity of the onshore airline. So that's good, and I'm glad we got a majority in the Storting now that makes sure that Torp gets at least a good deal further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1607	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1624	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1631	First, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. This is a representative proposal that is both important and topical. The latter contributes to many of the proposals likely to come under the characteristics of opening doors, but the pandemic has forced action in a wide range of areas, including most of the ones proposed by the proposers. The Committee makes reference to a letter from the Council of State dated 7 May 2020. Here the Council of State accepts the proposal in a thorough and good manner. The main issue is that the different action packages dealt with by the Storting have addressed many of the issues. In the transport sector, the public sector is to a large extent both ordering and performing. This applies, for example: large parts of public transport, which is a municipal responsibility. The government has therefore provided financial compensation to the county councils for increased expenditure and reduced revenue, through increased framework grants to the counties. Similarly, municipalities are compensated through the municipal framework grant, to help the municipally owned ports. Train services are kept up with grants to the operating companies and deferred payments of road charges. It is worth noting that the market situation for freight operators is relatively little affected by the outbreak of covid-19. Aviation is the individual transport sector that has had to bleed the most. It has therefore been necessary not only to help airlines in a difficult situation but also to provide for a minimum of flights in order to meet not least the needs of the District of Norway. That planes were to be put on the ground to such an extent both here to land and world wide was almost unimaginable. But it has shown us how important aviation is, not least here in the country. Norway is returning to a more normal situation. What becomes normal after the pandemic, doesn't know at this point. I understand that the SV, through its representative proposal, would deal with current issues in an ongoing crisis. However, it is valuable as a start to a discussion that is relevant when we are all going to evaluate the consequences of the pandemic and the measures that were put in place. No one could predict what we've been through. Nor can we assume that the measures we have taken this time will be the same next time. But we've learned that there are dangers that can paralyze an entire world. Therefore, we must not underestimate the consequences and extent of future events. It's like a macabre lottery game: the probability of winning is very small, but someone does, and it can happen tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1646	There are many things you could say something about in this case, I focus on one important area on behalf of the Workers' Party. The Labour Party, as it appears in previous debates and in the comments on this matter, has considered that the liberalisation of the tax legislation should never have been adopted. But now the proposal for a postponement has already been discussed, and no one marvels that the Government Parties and their Support Party voted against the proposal to postpone at least one year. That is why the proposal has been taken out in the final proposals in this matter, as has been explained. The ice-cream industry is in a deep crisis. Many have submitted a permit, and others have again parked and taken on other work. Those who are on the road also have little to do. Presently, we representatives are often referred to taxis to get to Stortinget or home, as there are little air buses out and driving on the roads. Then we get feedback about the government's madness with the release, and now the government has also announced that the taximeter will be replaced by an app. This is not a rematch, but the taxi industry has in many ways fallen outside or is in the periphery of the crisis arrangements the Stortinget has put in place. Many of the holders have very low income, and in these times many are almost without income when all taxes and expenses are paid. Included in these costs is an annual tax on taximeters. It may be argued that the fee is not so high, but the annual tax on the taximeter helps to increase the burden on the shareholders. Therefore, it is proposed in the case that the taximeter fee should not be paid for 2020 and that those who have paid this fee should be refunded, but this will not be the case for the government parties. The fact that the levy is not so high may likewise be an argument that the State can cover it for the current year. In fact, all the monks leave, and as the situation is, the annual tax represents a few days’ net income for a taxi owner — yes, for some it represents even more. It will then be a fine handshake to an industry in crisis, which has received minimal financial support, and which faces a very difficult period when the liberalisation of the taxi industry comes into force on 1 November. I am thus promoting the proposal of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1659	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1664	The Storting has adopted a comprehensive crisis package for Norwegian industry after the Korona virus arrived in Norway. However, the broad similarities are not fine-hulled or targeted enough to capture all segments of Norwegian business. Now it seems that the government has finally understood that the excess is going away, but not retrospectively. We will follow this up in the treatment of the RNB and the crisis package. There are more needs in the transport sector that are still not covered and that depend on measures that are debated here, but not least on measures that come through other channels as well. The situation has changed a lot since the proposal was put forward, and the proposals put forward have been adjusted accordingly. In the past, the centre party has made a number of proposals to improve this with the express bus offer, and a follow-up to this proposal would contribute to better conditions for the commercial express bus offer before the Korona outbreak. It is, as everyone knows, the only collective means that goes across the county boundaries, and it also covers areas without a train connection. Both the municipalities concerned, county municipalities, express bus companies and NHO Logistics and Transport have been aware of the need for a compensation scheme for the express buses. The center part is very satisfied with what has been presented, and the 100 million. kr which means that the industry has an opportunity to survive in a difficult time. The next thing is to give them lasting, equal framework conditions that are comparable to what is done for aircraft and trains. The taxi industry has been mentioned. They are in a difficult situation, especially with regard to charges which have increased over several years. There is no doubt that the taxi industry is engaged in community-critical passenger transport. They are often organised as individual enterprises, from day one, and cash support for fixed costs has not helped the taxi owners to a significant extent, including: due to the proportion of the assets and the requirements for the minimum amounts. This could also improve now, but it's very important that it gets a retrospective effect. We will also stress the need not to add to the burden on the taxi industry at this time by introducing changes in the Professional Transport Act that will liberalise the taxi industry and refer to our proposal to postpone the change in the law by at least one year. In the case of freight traffic and ports, they are self-financed. There are small profit margins for goods on both track and sea, and measures are needed to ensure the Storting's goal of transferring more goods from road to sea and track in the wake of the Korona crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1681	Then I understand that the representative has taken up the proposals that the Central Party is behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1686	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1691	The representative Bengt Fasterale took up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1696	SV promoted this proposal for a representative at a time when we saw that the first broad packages aimed at business did not fully capture all industries in a good way. There were several who fell between the chairs. As this case has been in the Committee, several measures have been implemented by the government – and also by the so-called right-wing gang here in the Stortinget. One of the measures that was implemented was that the express buses received 100 million. kr. I am very happy that it came, and it was also part of this proposal. But I also notice that the Council of State turned around there, because the Council of State wrote to the committee in its comment that he did not see the need then – but it has changed since. As has been mentioned here from the pulpit, the thrush industry has also been hit hard because they have fixed costs which are poorly covered by the arrangements adopted. New grips can be taken that are easily accessible in a way. Among other things, the tax collector's fee for this year could have been paid and not collected, and that is what one of the proposals involves. Otherwise, there have also been some changes that I am very happy about – this is about excess etc., which is also proposed by the government. Then I don't want to say anything about what was released in the taxi industry, since the representative Langholm Hansen has said what is important in that matter. In the Coronacrise, the ports are also out running financially. They are largely financed by sea by levying taxes, by leases, and so on, but with far fewer calls under the Koronacrisa, revenue has also collapsed for the ports. We have received many enquiries about this, particularly those ports that have had a lot of passenger transport – cruises and ferries – that have suffered the biggest losses. But there are also some losses on freight and reduced rental income. It is therefore appropriate to provide for a compensation scheme for the loss of user payment for ports as well. That is why we are also promoting a proposal on this today. Then we see that the profitability of goods by rail in Norway has been under pressure for many years. Low-fill freight trains – largely due to the corona – have suffered severe economic losses due to the fixed costs that exist there anyway. That is why we have a proposal that the levy should not be levied this year, and in the long term it should be completely or at least fully compensated for by environmental reasons. Then I take up the proposal that SV is behind alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1713	Then the representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposal that the Socialist Left Party is behind alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1719	This draft representative is about ‘transport measures in times of crisis’. There are several examples of this, and many are mentioned in the representative proposal itself. We have also discussed other issues related to this in several debates, including today. This is important, and when I read in the newspaper today that 1,800 of 1,900 coaches are standing, that is, that only 100 of the coaches have something to do at the moment, we realize that there are times of crisis in some of the transport segments. I hope that the Council of State today can talk a little bit about the other crises that also occur. Car traffic was very small in the beginning, of course, because then we were at home and had a home office. Now we're much more on the go, and it's of course encouraged to use a car instead of public transport, but it might have become a little bit, for example. Given the infrastructure we have. As a cyclist in Oslo and Trondheim, I experience that cycling has become very risky, because there are many more cars in the cities now and much more traffic and dangerous behaviour. Unfortunately, I also read every day that the U.S. police have controls, and that there are major speed violations around the country. It is good that the police are out there checking, but we know they can't catch everything. This weekend, too, we have seen serious and major accidents in traffic. I think the statistics can get ugly this year if this continues and we don't introduce even better measures to maybe limit some of the behavior that's in traffic right now. I would have appreciated if the Council of State could say anything about this, because I think we're going to have challenges with it. I believe that the government acted quite quickly on part of the challenges. For example, VAT was reduced. There was a tax relief for quite a few of these carriers. I see that it is possible to think about new taxes, but I think you should be a little careful to say that someone is more vulnerable than others. The Ministry of Transport must at least get the full overview before you can promise anything more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1736	I notice that there is a joint committee that is concerned about the situation that we now have in the transport industry as a result of the covid-19 outbreak. I share the same concern. There have been many measures, and I want to point out some of the measures ahead, but I'm concerned because we have a demanding situation now, and we're going to have a demanding situation in the future. So there are parts of this that have gone well, yes, I'll almost say surprisingly well. If I'm going to start with one of those areas, I have to say freight traffic. One has had a degree there that has been very good, that debt at sea, that debt on land, both track and road – we have experienced that the goods have come out in a very good way. But we have a demanding situation, so it is important that the county has received compensation. They are primarily responsible for public transport, and they have received significant compensation. The same applies to municipalities, which are granted access through the framework. to help the municipally owned ports. So it's like no one in this situation gets fully compensated, but one gets compensated. I am happy that several pointers on the express buses. The express buses are actually what the train often means, otherwise, in many district municipalities, they mean a lot to District Norway. It took some time for the measure to come, but it was because one at one point would not travel, there would be no leisure trips. But when we're going to leave in our own country, it's all the more important that we have brought it, and we're actually following up what's in the proposal from SV here. And then there's more of them that point to the taxi regulation. I want to show that we came here with a postponement just so that we should be in a better situation. That is why it will be a postponement of its implementation until 1 November 2020. I think we have got a lot of action in good cooperation with Stortinget. We've got billions of measures for aviation, we're buying routes. We should be aware that Norway is one of the countries that has actually had the largest air traffic while the covid-19 outbreak has been there. In an environmental perspective, you can discuss it, but we know what the routes mean, not least in District Norway. It turns out we've been closed with it. On the railway side, we've made the traffic work. In the end, my blasphemy is that we have to follow developments, because it's going to be demanding times also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1753	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1758	I was in my post about, or for that matter: My post was mainly about tax collectors, the annual tax on tax collectors. In fact, it represents two days of net revenues, and so it does, for a privilege holder who has his car in operation. The concerns that are notified to me by the taxi driver in Stavanger are that they are despaired, they almost do not have income. Fortunately, it takes up something on weekends, but driving taxis on weekdays is not a big business. So I wonder if the Council of State could explain a little bit about its views on the proposal for an exemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1763	There is no doubt that such a proposal would be positive for those who run taxis. It's an industry that's had it very demanding. We know that the case for a period has actually been up against 90 pst. Now we feel that it's significant growth, and I think that's pleasing to all of us. There is concern about public transport, which causes some to choose a taxi because they feel that it is safer. In this particular charge, it falls within the Ministry of Industry's remit. She's the one who's responsible for it. We now have a re-regulation of the taxi industry. Then it is natural to look at the fees and look at the nutrition below. My wish is that this industry should be strengthened by that conversion. Now I see that he who made the changes in the taxi industry is at the back of the hall, and I think it is our wish that we should be closed with an improvement through that change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1770	Over to something quite different, as it was called in the NRK in its time. The councils were about this with air services and the purchase of air routes. Crisis loans have been granted to the three major Norwegian airlines, a number of offers are being purchased, and it has also increased as demand increases. The last decision, which is that you can use full planes, is joyous. However, there are still very many full planes. Our representative Karlstrøm was supposed to travel from Alta yesterday, he got down, but he got almost the last place – there are full planes where new routes were set up now. I wonder, what kind of dialogue does the Council of State have with the three big companies about more departures?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1777	We are now in close dialogue with the three airlines that are actually operating in Norway. Our wish is to ensure that we now have an extended flight offer. So we know that here it'll be commercially profitable on many routes, and we want to be involved and contribute to getting a full-blown grid. We are particularly concerned about District Norway, where we see that people who went to hospital have not had the opportunity to do so because the offer has not been good enough, and it has been too few tickets. So we're working on this. We're willing to put money on the table to make sure we get the flight offer back in a normality. But we don't want it to be a permanent solution. We have the FOT routes, we're going to have them, of course, but we want to make it easier for them to offer more. I feel that both Norwegian, SAS and Onkøe are very concerned about the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1782	I have a line question about aviation. The council was even in this case with air buses and express buses, and especially air buses. For many years we have tried to get more people to use public transport to the airports around the country, but for example. So Stavanger and other airports don't currently operate buses. Of course, it is justified that there are few passengers, but I have some problems taking a taxi out to the airport every day I am going out to travel. Has the Council of State thought about compensation for the buses, so that they can get up to walk again – for a period, at least?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1787	There are several reasons why we want the buses back. Often when the representative Langholm Hansen travels, he is paid the cost of an employer. A lot of people don't get it. We who get it covered are one thing, but for the many who have to pay a lot more, it's demanding. So it's like with the air traffic we've had, it's kind of also kind of kind of falling off some of the ground. We just want to ensure an extra flight offer, because that's what we think we need. We should not at least have significant domestic travel this summer, so I believe that the offer will also come back. In the case of express bus services, the main focus is on the express bus services that are special in District Norway that will be part of it. We also have a dialogue attached to the airbuses, but they are not part of the express bus system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1796	Then we have to go to the next representative, but the President will remind the representative Langholm Hansen that the President must also be addressed during the change of line.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1802	Again a little bit back to the express buses. We have mentioned quite well and thoroughly the importance of this. I guess there's a lot of people who think I'm driving a lot of express buses. I don't, because I live on the train line. I have probably driven more storm armored cars than I have driven express buses, but too many are very important. The 100 million. kr has come into place. When does the Council of State see that the money contained in this package can be implemented, and what guidelines will be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1809	I'm going to share what Mr. Fasterøne says here. Just for that part of District Norway that doesn't have a train, it's the express bus that's in force, not least when you're going to travel a little longer distances. We now have a close dialogue with NHO Aviation, and at least we hope that dialogue will make us get the bus offer up. These payments will actually take place as soon as possible. It has been important for us that this should apply from the summer onwards, and we are now in mid-June, so that there should not be too many days until this actually ends.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1816	As I said in the introduction, the express buses have operated on marginal margins in the past as well. It is that in this slightly specially designed country there will always be parts that will not take advantage of them – I would say – huge stakes that have been on many collective solutions, perhaps especially around the big cities, but also in view of a little north/south, if you think so. Many of these are also solutions that might go east/west. Can the Council of State promise that this industry will not be treated as a voter in the future and will be seen more fully as part of the overall collective effort in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1823	Yes, I've let myself be impressed by how the express buses have managed to make a very comprehensive offer. They've done it on commercial terms, and they've started their own money. What makes it particularly demanding now is that we have a guide that makes it 50 pst. capacity of public transport. It makes it all the more important that we come in this summer. There are also some states that have joined and supported express buses. They use it as part of the bus service in their state, and then they get one, together with support from the state and the express bus service, also a longer route with the express buses. It's become a very good offer. But I think we should have a consciousness around this, that it's not obvious that we have this good offer, and that we should do what we can to keep up the layer and ensure a good express bus offer. It means a lot to District Norway in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1830	I understand the Council of State and the government's argument for support measures, that it should catch wider and not be oriented towards specific industries. There is a general approach to the principle of justice, etc. I can understand. Nevertheless, more targeted measures, such as those we have, are very effective. have been proposed by facilitating charges for specific industries. It's pretty low-hanging fruits, pretty small amounts of money, but it's very focused, for example. against the taxis, or the taximeter charge, referred to here. I also have to say that I do not share the Council's view of freight traffic, that goods are going so well by rail. The signals I have received as late as today indicate that there are blood red numbers in freight traffic on the railway. They now wear lower volumes both on timber, on aviation gasoline, of course, etc. So the question to the Council of State is, does he see that point and how important charges are?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1839	I don't want to disagree with the representative Nävra that even in freight traffic on the road, the required number is required, demanding times. But when we see what we're experiencing, with such a total shut-down of society that we had in the middle of March, I'm impressed by how freight traffic managed to deliver goods on the track, how they managed to deliver goods by sea and by road. It wasn't obvious. We felt that trailers were stopped both on the border with Denmark and on the border with Sweden – they did not enter Norway because of the closure we had. That was the perspective I pointed out when I said I was impressed by how freight traffic has, after all, worked. But yes, these industries, too, we have to follow. We are busy getting extra goods on the track, and then we also have to look at how we can ensure it. I'm not in disagreement with the representative. It's been a demanding situation for them too, and I take that into account when it comes to goods on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1846	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1853	The headline is transport measures in times of crisis, and I and SV believe that it is precisely the time we are now in, we have to think through the direction. Now we have a unique opportunity. Now the Minister for Transport and the Minister for the Environment are in the Chamber, and these two Councils must speak well in the future. There is a unique opportunity now to take some action in the right direction, and in transport there are many. We have to think, are there any conditions we can set for aviation now? Is it e.g. money on it to phase in more electric ferries? Are we going to bet more on bikes in Norway? Don't we now have a unique opportunity to think that way? We have to think of hitting two flies in one taste. We can run counter-cyclical measures, and we can think of the environment – the right direction. It's very important that now it doesn't make any sense that we've spent so much money here in the hall that that's what we have to think about in the future, saving in, that's what it's about, getting people to work, not thinking green that thinking green now is luxury. No, that's not it. So there are two existential threats we are facing in humanity, on the globe. One is the climate rustle, and the other is the loss of nature, species diversity. These two we have to bring with us all the way. I have said this many times: it is the transport committee on the Stortinget in particular that has a great responsibility, and of course the Environment Committee as well. I'm not going to talk about oil and gas, that's the third. It's pretty important that we now think in that direction. And then the RNB question comes up, there's pretty soon discussions here in the room about crisis package 3, or has it become 3.5 or 4? All the measures to be discussed here in the Chamber on Friday will become absolutely essential. Then I have to say that those who are concerned with these questions have to look at what the parties are doing in terms of budgeting – on aviation, on the railways in particular, on bicycles, on ferries. It is almost a great shame that Stortinget here decides to phase in electric ferries, and then it does not bring enough money to the county municipalities. It's on the verge of dishonesty. We have to open the purse to the county councils for the phase-in of river ferries, among other things. Now I've made some important points.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1868	When the representative Nävra has said that he has made some important points, I cannot compromise myself. At least part of those points, I'm very, very disagreed with the representative Nävra. Some things I agree with, I believe that the express buses are very important, and therefore I am pleased that the government has promised that there will be more money for the express bus offer. It's very good, because it means a lot in the district, and it means a lot in other parts of the country as well. I'm very happy about that. I also believe that the pandemic shows some of the challenges you have, because someone has wanted to get rid of the car, remove the car. Then you actually see that it would be good to organize and have more thoughts in your head at once by having more offers. It's clear that when the representative Nävra talks about aviation, he wants to impose and now we have to think differently and do things another way: I think those who run the companies today really have enough to try to keep their heads above the water and get through the situation we're now in the middle of. I think the employees are concerned that you should actually make sure that the airlines survive. That is why I am pleased that we have a loan arrangement for the airlines. I think we need to come back with more action in the future if we're going to make sure that we have an aviation industry in the future as well. I think customers are also most concerned about, and hope, that those planes can soon start flying again, and that you can bring down the price that I think is good, and that the representative of course will probably not agree with me. When it comes to thinking about electric planes and thinking about the big airy thoughts, I think you'd better work to make sure people get back to work, and that we have airlines in the future. Instead of having many thousand aircraft on the ground, I'd rather the planes start flying again. Then we have to make sure that they can do it when we move on – over where we are now – and we're going forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1879	The representative Arne Nävra has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1884	It's getting a little weird here, because now the representative Hoksrud comes up and says exactly what he would rather not have said, that we should ignore all the green requirements, just think about jobs and get things going again, not use this golden opportunity to turn certain things in society in the right direction. It was very good that the representative took the floor, because then I have another opportunity to mention that the Progress Party was the only party here in the Chamber that a few days ago was not in two important remarks that we were going to phase into electricity flights in Norway. They weren't supposed to take the initiative at all, they weren't supposed to be involved in putting Norway in the driver's seat any way in the case of electric aircraft, they wouldn't be on the electric flight. They'll continue on fossil aircraft. This is all about the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1892	Of course, when Mr Nävra comes along with that, I have to speak. I don't think anyone out there, maybe with the exception of the representative Nävra and a few others, realizes that electric aircraft is what we're going to bet on now – when all of the planes are on the ground. Then we have to work to make sure the airlines get on, that they're there, and that they're actually able to continue modernizing their fleet, continue to be able to do things. But then they actually have to survive, and then I don't think the electricity and the kind of things that the representative Nävra is proposing now, the solution is definitely not now. Of course, it's good if you can bring down the costs and take action that makes the emissions go down, that'll be good for everyone. But it's kind of not where we're standing right now. Now we've discussed making sure that one of the airports in Norway will survive, and what Mr. Nävra's representative is to make sure that one at least makes it difficult for the airlines to fly there in the future – if one is to make new demands and imposes in the middle of the company now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1899	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1917	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1926	First, I would like to thank the proposers for keeping an important issue warm. Climate change does not disappear even if other crises occur. If we are to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, we need a continuous debate on instruments and measures. I would also like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation, almost as usual. Fortunately, both the Committee and Norwegian policies are characterised to a large extent by consensus that climate change is taking place and that they are influenced by human activity. I also experience that in Stortingen's work. In terms of instruments and the way to achieve the climate objectives we are both committed to and dependent on, we may have a somewhat different approach. This proposal originally put forward 32 different proposals for concrete actions; a number of others have emerged in the process. The majority of the committee has gathered on six proposals, and I will comment on some of them. The first is to ask the government through the notified climate communication to initiate a new climate reconciliation with measures and instruments to achieve climate targets by 2030. This spring has been marked by a crisis due to covid-19. At that time, Stortinget has seen it as important to gather to minimise damage and secure jobs and well-being. The size has gathered on powerful action packages. The size of this spring has also concentrated on several other broad measures to ensure stability and the ability to build bridges from the fossil economy to an economy based on renewables. It must also be in climate policy. The size of the population must be brought together in broad and long-term comparisons that make it realistic to achieve Norway’s climate targets. Something else will be a failure statement to future generations. Climate challenges require a switch-over cap. The announced climate communication should be a tool for setting a climate-friendly course towards 2030 to minimise damage and ensure jobs, well-being and the future. I hope the government will note that the majority in the committee will also be present when the climate communication comes to the harvest. The second majority proposal I would like to dwell on is the proposal to initiate the investigation of carbon capture for the combustion plant in Kristiansand and Borg CO 2 in Fredrikstad. Norway and the world do not achieve their climate objectives without industrial capture and storage of carbon. When the majority of the Committee today points to two further projects in addition to the two start-up projects at the waste incineration plant here in Oslo, Klemetsrud, and the cement plant in Brevik, these are projects that will have a significant impact on the profitability of the entire value chain for capture and storage, and not least that these projects – alone – will provide dramatic cuts in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. The third proposal is the proposal to change Enova's objective, so that we can get charging current in the 20 largest ports, in nine ports of call for the coastal route and in vulnerable fjords. It will cut greenhouse gas emissions and also lead to a better local environment. I'll bring it up to you the suggestions that the Center Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1946	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1951	The most important lesson the world should take after the coronary crisis is that we should be better prepared for the crises we know will come. Now we know how fast the world can change, and we have to do what we can to avoid the big crisis ahead of us: the climate crisis. That's why I totally disagree with the thoughts we hear from the Right and their councillor, Linda Hofstad Helleland, who is now leading the programme work, and who says there's going to be less talk about the environment and climate, that the green shift was from another time, and that that's not how we're going to think anymore. In the Labour Party, we think the opposite. Climate and environment have become even more important this spring. The Labour Party today makes 27 proposals to cut emissions here at home in Norway. We'll put in place more fossil-free construction sites, because the technology is there, and now the industry is asking for demands. We want more use of hydrogen, for the hydrogen strategy the government put forward, was more a factsheet than a strategy. We will set up new projects for the capture and storage of CO 2 because the time is running out of time. Today, we are promoting a number of proposals that both cut emissions in Norway, drive new technologies and help create new jobs for people. Unfortunately, not one of the very many proposals we are discussing today is going to be adopted. All the proposals are voted down by the Right-wing Government and the Advance Party, and they themselves have not presented a single one. That's what's become the new normal. The government does not make its own proposals and votes against those who are being raised. In this area, unfortunately, we don't see any change after it became a minority government. It is the Progress Party that is the partner choice for this government in climate policy. Here we'll probably see little activity from Stortinget when it comes to setting up a new climate policy. The positive thing about climate issues is that there is also a lot of positive happening. We see that, especially in business, there are many players who are very forward-looking and drive new technologies. There the business community asks for the help of the politicians and says that politicians have to go along with it. In the past, policy was often at the forefront – now it is the policy that is behind it. Once again, the answer from the government parties is that we have to wait and see. That's the answer that's going on in all of these cases. We don't have time for that, and that's why we're making a number of proposals. We know from the story we've had, that hardly any of the climate targets have been achieved. Then it's waiting and seeing a very bad strategy. Finally, I would like to thank the other opposition parties for their very good cooperation. We have written together on a number of proposals, and it promises good opportunities to put in place a new climate policy after the elections in a year's time. With that, I address the proposals that the Labour Party is promoting, and I would also like to inform you that we will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. Twenty-four, from the Center Party. We have a fairly similar proposal, a little bit more ambitious, but if it does fall, we will vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1975	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e1980	In this case, we have considered a total of 32 different proposals, all of which deal with actions in different areas of our society that can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. There are important areas in which it is proposed to do something, and there is an extensive work behind the preparation of the proposal for a document. That's exactly why it's been very interesting and, not least, rewarding to realize that during our time of government all these areas are taken care of, either by the adoption of policies here, or that this is something we're already investigating. Thus, it is likely that the recognition that our country has internationally in combating greenhouse gas emissions is also confirmed. The measures we are doing, and not least our will and ability to grant funds for research and development, are being noted. Of course, that doesn't mean we settle down and we're satisfied with the work that's done so far, but I think it shows that we're doing something that's right, and that we're well on the right track. An important area is the proposals concerning the reduction of emissions in the construction sector. Here the government is working on an action plan to help public acquisitions become more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly, thus contributing to green innovation in this sector as well. CO 2 capture and storage is vital for reducing emissions, and our government also shows that it is working on a tight timetable with investment decision targets within the time period outlined by the proposers. Then there is the proposal that deals with everything from public transport and urban growth agreements, biofuels and farms to the mandate of Enova and agriculture, where the government can point to ongoing work. The most important thing in the future is to see that we are facilitating a green transition for climate reasons. But we also need to ensure that new green jobs are created, not least in the private sector. A good example here is that the business community in Norway is following up, among others. on the Haugaland, to which I can refer. The newly submitted hydrogen strategy was welcomed here. The Haugaland sees great opportunities for a project called Hydrogen Valley in Haugaland, with blue hydrogen and ambitions to contribute to reducing emissions in Europe. Otherwise, the Haugaland is a region that positions itself as a power centre for green migration, sustainability and new jobs. This is one example of a very large number of regions in Norway that are taking government policies into account and that are facing a sustainable future. That's what this is all about. I would say that the SV representative proposal has helped to show how extensive climate work is. It also shows that the government’s work in the field of road safety meets the demands of a cross-political Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2000	I'll start with something as unusual as quoting the Aukrust representative. He said that the Progress Party is «the partner choice of this government in climate policy». That's very well said. It's not just that – it's also good for the country that today we actually want to stop a series of proposals that aren't sufficiently good – proposals we don't understand the consequences of for Norwegian business, which we don't know what will mean for Norwegian jobs, which we don't know will help to reduce Norwegian emissions or increase them globally, or if they will actually help to reduce global emissions with the policy that will lead to. Today, we are taking new important steps for a defensive climate policy that is knowledge-based, based on professional placements, hopefully also on further government work before they come back with reports, when they come here with e.g. Climate change. The big difference between the Workers' Party, which has started running for SV in these cases, and the majority who take responsibility in these cases – also today – is that we do not actually jump for symbol measures that we do not understand the consequences for Norwegian businesses and jobs. I think it seems to the Storting to honor that one dares to resist the easily won rhetoric that the Workers' Party and probably SV are going to try later today, and actually stand up for Norwegian jobs. It is a policy that has been shown to work. In the last few years, emissions have fallen in Norway in the sector by sector. In the transport sector, which the Progress Party has been in charge, there have been huge cuts in recent years. In the agricultural sector, which the Progress Party has been in charge, there have been huge cuts in recent years. It is because it is entirely possible to pursue a smart climate policy that facilitates value creation and growth, and at the same time helps us to develop new technologies that we can both benefit from domestic and export to other countries, and by doing so contribute to both reducing global emissions and reducing our domestic emissions. But it's almost de minimis for parts of the opposition party on the left-hand side today, because one's so busy showing that a jump is the fastest, that one forgets to look at the consequences. This is why today’s decision is an important decision to pursue a sensible and responsible climate policy that both contributes to global emission reductions and job security in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2015	In matters of vital importance to the country, it has been an important tradition to make wide-ranging compromises, reconciliations that point forward, that address the challenges we face, and resolve them jointly, reconciliations that give people and businesses security that we face the problems with full force. The climate crisis is definitely such a challenge. Since 1990, when the world became aware of the climate crisis through the first reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, it has been produced up to 10 kilos of public investigations in Norway that show how we can cut our emissions. Nevertheless, Norwegian emissions are at about the same level today as they were 30 years ago. I think we should all take responsibility for the fact that emissions are not significantly lower. Climate change 2030, which came earlier this year, is a thorough work that can form the basis for an ambitious climate settlement. So let's look at the debate today as a little bit of a warm-up to the debate we're going to have when the government presents its big news about the climate later this year. We had so clearly hoped that this heating would also lead to some measures being put in place to cut greenhouse gas emissions. For example, we should have started work on ensuring that all construction projects that are published in public terms become emission-free. Then we would have taken one step more than the red-green city council in Oslo, which today demands fossil-free sites. We had also hoped that we would be able to see through the Stortinge behind the plans for CO 2 capture and storage in Kristiansand and Fredrikstad. The Storting has already decided that it will be launched in Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. Norway has great opportunities in the transition we are about to undergo. We need to develop a green new deal for Norway. SV has put forward a proposal on this, and here are the strings cut, sheep and parts: cut emissions, create jobs and distribute wealth in Norway. One of the areas in which Norway may grow is hydrogen. We can produce and use emission-free hydrogen, both in the transport sector and in industry. Therefore, through Enova, we want to stimulate the increased use of hydrogen in industry. TiZir in Tyssedal is ready, if they had received some support. Furthermore, we can imagine the use of hydrogen in boat traffic. This may, for example: be an important complement to electricity in the farming industry. This is about the fact that we have to seize the opportunities and not just be concerned about locking ourselves to the oil companies' fossil energy stakes, which the majority of the population decided last week. Finally, I hope that the government will find inspiration in the many proposals that are being promoted today, and take these into account in the work on the coming climate communication. I'm addressing the suggestions that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2041	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2046	The climate debate is important, and we have it almost weekly here in Stortinget. And of course, we're going to keep doing that. Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions have fallen in the last four years. The left has been there every time there have been negotiations in the Grand Duchy and on the bourgeois side, and has fought for the results we now see: Electric car policy works and gives direct results in terms of reduced emissions. The biofuel fraction is higher than ever. The CO 2 tax has been introduced and escalated. It makes it cheaper to choose environmentally friendly and more expensive to pollute. We have also entered into a binding agreement with the EU to ensure that the objectives are followed. It provides a clear framework and systematics for climate action. The left shall remain the green champion in negotiations with other political parties. We are absolutely crucial to creating a policy that draws Norway in a greener direction. In the course of the year, it's very likely that we're under 50 million. tonnes of CO 2 emissions in Norway. It's a milestone to get below that limit. Climate results are not self-evident. We must fight for them in any debate, whether it be money, instruments or laws. There is also a question about the methodology you work for. We see today a lot of proposals that are being promoted on the basis of the job that the government has started to look forward to 2030. There are many proposals that we can cut emissions with, but they are being presented here today without having been investigated, without knowing the economic consequences of it, and without knowing what we are imposing on people to do. We've seen through the epidemic we've been through, that there's a lot of change when people are going to contribute a lot of effort. We need to know more about this, and it comes with the government's proposals to the Storting beyond the fall. We also have to look forward to 2030. The representative Aukrast was within some of the Workers' Party's many measures, including: fossil-free construction sites. Yeah, it's timely. We have to get better at cutting emissions from many construction activities. There is also an important reason why Oslo, where the Workers' Party and SV actually control, have increased their emissions by 5 pst. The left and the rest of the government cut emissions in Norway, while the Workers' Party, SV and the Green Party increase emissions in the capital and in Trondheim. There is good reason to look at what action to take and to take some time to give priority to these measures. The new normal is that it is Norway as a cutter, and that the Workers' Party and SV do not tickle.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2083	The last few days have really shown why Norway needs a real green party. The representative Dale of the Progress Party will have more knowledge-based policies. Unfortunately, the situation in Norway today is that this is not what we have. On Friday, the large majority of times adopted the tax package for the oil industry, at a time when we are going to halve the world’s greenhouse gas emissions in ten years – after in-depth warnings from climate scientists around the world. On Thursday, the same majority again mock environmental advice when the ice-cream zone is to be adopted. On the same day, Stortinget will conduct its yes to more motorways into Oslo, which neither Oslo nor Viken County will have, and as transporters warn that only more queues will be created in a growing metropolitan region. In total, in a few weeks, the grey batches have been subject to green conversion in Norway for several years. Norway has been revealed: asphalt and oil are our answers when we create activity. The young people's climate justice is something they work for outside Stortinget, not in this house. Yes, little money is granted for green research and technology, but the majority seems to be completely unable to see the enormous potential of jobs, activity and business that could be realized if they had prioritised safe and sustainable jobs this spring rather than short-term pain. Today, the Greens are voting for most of the proposals we are debating on this matter. We are also involved in a number of proposals along with other parties. In addition, we promote five own proposals: We are proposing a major effort on sea wind, including the launching of two full-scale sea wind farms now. We ask the government to present a case on how Norway can best contribute to a European energy transition. We are asking for a gradual slowdown in the petroleum industry and a halt in new licences. We ask the government to increase the government's share of large collective projects to 80 pst. The natural and climate crisis is global. In addition to the dryness of commitment by each country, this means that the solution lies in more international cooperation, not less. For Norway, this means close cooperation with Europe. This might be where we find the most important environmental policy difference between SV and the Green Party. Today, with all its weaknesses, the EU is the most important motor in the green world. Where Norway spends 39 billion dollars. kr to save a sunset diet, the EU spends every four crowns of its crisis package on climate action. Where SV says no to several foreign tables, the Greens say yes to contributing to European emissions. That is why the Greens also have Norway's most ambitious maritime wind policy, with targets of 100 TWh production in 2030. Where SV's only cooperation options are the Workers' Party, the Greens will cooperate with those who commit themselves to as much green a policy as possible. The last few days have shown that it's far from obvious who it is. To find parties that are interested in putting nature and climate first, you almost have to look with magnifying glass for the moment. I take this up with me the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2117	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The majority is now taking a break in the debate and going to voting. The debate will continue once it has been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2131	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting on the matter no. 1-11 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2140	Case No. 1–8 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts 133 to 140. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2154	A total of 19 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-11, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 12, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 13, from Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 14, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 15-19, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to meet the business requirements of 10 pst. by the labour force, a vocational school training course shall be held by 2030.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2189	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15, 16, 18 and 19 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a climate job guarantee to be provided with appropriate work for all appropriate job opportunities for selected groups.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a system of accounts in which the company or the public employer undertakes to set aside a certain amount that is earmarked for the enhancement of competence or climate action.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of the funding system in cooperation with sector representatives.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government requests the extension of the right to secondary education by amending the applicable law relating to the number of years of secondary education to become a right to complete’.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2223	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the Higher Education Executive Communication, to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for changes to the higher education funding system that strengthen basic funding, correct the historical imbalances in the basic funding between new and old institutions and provide institutions with incentives for the establishment of study offers in line with regional skills needs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2238	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive review of the governance system in the context of the EEAS Communication on governance policies for state universities and higher education institutions, to propose how the governance and funding of the sector can contribute to achieving objectives of: improving the relevance of working life in higher education; better provision of continuing training as required by the labour market; and more flexible study services that can be taken in combination with a job.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2266	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the Government to return to the State budget for 2021 with proposals to ensure a predictable basic funding of the infrastructure and the organisation of study provision through local study and training centres.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2283	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-11, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget in connection with the State budget for 2021 with proposals for the conversion of the rules for the conversion from loans to scholarships. A prior investigation must highlight the impact on individual groups of students and pursue educational policy objectives, including the reform of competences, as well as the involvement of relevant stakeholder organisations.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government in the further design of the competence reform to adapt more ordinary individuals and degree studies to meet the objectives of the skills reform and adult applicants who wish to combine studies and work.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the experience gained from the university and higher education sector during the coronary apathy with full conversion to digital education, including the competence of employees in the educational use of digital solutions and the student learning outcomes.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further changes to the funding system for specialised schools that ensure an increase in basic funding and lower own-payment by the students.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with a change in law that removes the limitation on the minimum length of vocational education.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the initiation of an investigation with a view to establishing a system of approval and quality assurance of non-formal competence.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for measures to help far more adult jobseekers and workers to complete vocational letters or other secondary education.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the practical letter system is extended to all schools with vocational training programmes and that practical letter applicants are given the opportunity to extend the letter of practical application to the full vocational or bachelor’s letter’. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to further develop a digital competence platform to act as a common resource centre for public and private sector enterprises.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up regional competence needs analyses providing ongoing information on the region’s overall competence needs and involving county municipalities in the preparation.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a real commitment of competence for the health and care sector as a whole, similar to the continuing training schemes under the teacher’s responsibility. Such a commitment shall include the occupational groups actively involved in prevention, mastering, physical activity, rehabilitation and rehabilitation. A level of competence for the health sector needs to be developed through cooperation between the authorities, the professionals and the educational institutions.’.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2354	President! My vote was not recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2359	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2421	The Committee shall be consulted on the position to be taken with regard to I. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2435	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on II, VI and VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2445	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on III and V. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2459	It shall be heard about the Committee's position on IV. Right, Socialist Left, Left, Christian People's Party and Red have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2480	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to re-offer flights on the route Stord–Oslo.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2499	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the compensation of Ørland airport for the loss of revenue resulting from the covid-19 outbreak, less reduced operating costs, and to engage in dialogue with the municipality with a view to financing the operation of Ørland airport.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2588	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-4, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking not to require rental for terminals and loading cranes on the terminals of Bane NOR from 1 January 2020 onwards of the year, including reimbursement of rentals already paid.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2617	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to draw up a compensation scheme for the ports for the loss of user payment according to the business cash support scheme model.» [[as caviar layer]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of rail charges for freight trains in the period from 1 January 2020 and out of the year, including reimbursement of rail charges already paid.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a guarantee scheme for an additional daily train departure for freight to and from Malmö or for other sections where it is considered that a guarantee scheme could trigger new rail freight services’.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2646	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the removal of the levy payment requirement for 2020. Those who have already paid must receive this refund." The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2670	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2754	Then we shall continue the debate on issue No. 12th@item: inlistbox The next speaker is Councillor Sveinung Rotevatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2759	Today I want to start by thanking all those who have contributed to the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions falling for four consecutive years and now finally seems to be below 1990 levels. I would like to thank the shop worker in Bergen for having the diesel car stand and instead take the Bybanen to work at Nesttun. I would like to thank the Hardanger shipyard that built the first river in the world, which is now the Lavik-Oppedal stretch and cuts off the ferry traffic on Sognefjord. I want to thank all the creative Nordics and the innovative leaders in Norwegian business that are constantly surprised by new ideas that cut emissions. Not least, I want to thank all those who are still impatient and who require more. And we're going to do more. This government is not taking any rest periods - even if the government's policy is in the right direction. Now we're working on a 2030 climate plan. I am happy to come to Stortinget with him later this year. It becomes important because one of the best things we can do in climate policy is to give people and businesses good governance and development opportunities. We can't control climate policy by the input method. We have to work systematically. The government has strengthened the Norwegian climate target. Let's go to the front. Our emissions should be halved by 2030. People out there are willing to do what needs to be done. What they need is a government that plays on layers and doesn't make people enemies, who find possibilities and don't create barriers, who find the solutions that work, not just those that look good. They need a government that cuts emissions without cutting development. Fortunately, they do now. So they're going down, and they're going to continue going forward. We are going to deal with a whole of 32 proposals here today. I don't have time to comment on everyone. Many of them knock open doors, not all are just as good. But I notice that what the proposers are not asking for is a massive change in climate policy. There's no great revolution the Socialist Left Party is calling for here. They mostly want the government to do more of what we're already doing. We have strengthened the urban growth agreements – and will continue to do so. We work for several emission-free construction sites – and continue with it, the last time we announced today that the government will ban the use of mineral oil for construction drying and building heating. It will cut out by 80,000 tons every year. We are working to secure more innovative and green purchases, more ports are going to receive shore electricity, more fossil-free public transport – and more is going to be. I'm happy for all that government does, but I want us to do even more. It makes Stortinget well able to debate when the climate plan is presented later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2776	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2781	The councils were very self-satisfied with the results he believes he has reason to be proud of. Then we just have to remind ourselves that under the leadership of the Left in the Ministry of Climate Change, and under this government, you're not close to achieving what was the Grand Britain's climate goal. That's what the government's job is: to achieve the goals. We weren't close to reaching them. Then I think I might have saved myself a little bit of that rhetoric and rather looked at what we're going to do differently in the time that's coming. Today, neither is any of these proposals being promoted, which are being adopted – all of them being voted down, including by the Left. But I'm going to take the Council of State to the floor. He says we'll get back to this in the climate announcement. When the red-green government presented the climate announcement, they said that it was a goal to bring with them all those who had a serious climate policy behind them, all the parties who recognised the climate problem as our greatest challenge, were invited to join in and make a settlement. Is it the aim of the Council of State to bring about a climate settlement in Stortinget, or is it the Progress Party that will be the partner in this matter as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2790	It is interesting that the representative Auchrus thinks it is self-satisfied to bring out all those who every day do a great job to cut greenhouse gas emissions in their private lives or in their business. On the contrary, I believe it is absolutely right for a climate and environment minister to raise those who are doing the job out there. When it comes to achieving the Great Britain's 2020 climate target, we hardly know that until the statistics come next year, but I'm glad that emissions have dropped every year in the last four years. The last year we now know something about, they went down 2 pst. It's about as much as the entire annual emission to the Municipality of Oslo. That doesn't mean everything's going as fast as it's going, but that means it's going in the right direction, and it's going faster and faster. That's good. So it's nice that a lot of the parties want to become some of the governments of climate policy, but they don't really know what they're going to be about yet. I think I'll be able to write the climate plan first, and we'll come to Stortinget. I have said before – and I like to repeat it here – that I am willing to talk to anyone who wants to work for good climate policy. It will be an important matter when she comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2799	The climate minister says it's going in the right direction – it doesn't. The world is not on the right track to achieve our climate goals – we are on the road to catastrophic climate change. He said he was satisfied on behalf of all those who did the job, but when you heard the post, it seemed as if there was most self-satisfaction on behalf of the left. I believe that there is no reason for this government to be. I really did not get an answer to my question. The red-green government said very clearly that they wanted a climate settlement with all the parties. Is it, then, since they want to vote against this in the Chamber, that it is not an objective for the government to achieve a climate settlement during 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2806	The representative received an answer to his question. When it comes to whether the world is on the right course or not, it is not so hard to agree that it is not, because it continues to go up globally. Not least, it is problematic that they continue to rise at record rates in many of the emerging economies. It has to take hold, because what's now reported to the United Nations is that we're going to reach a temperature increase of over 3 degrees. It's totally unacceptable, it'll lead to enormous consequences for humans, for plants, for animals, for the sea, and so one has to do more. For example, for this reason: It is unlikely that countries in the world are now committed to cutting more than they have so far. We have reported that we should do that in Norway – as the first Western country has done. But we need even more people coming forward to the important climate summit in Glasgow, which unfortunately is not going to be this year, but which hopefully will soon be next year, so that one can agree to get the world on the right course, because I agree with the representative that it is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2813	It is so happy that the Council of State announces that there will be a climate plan during the year. I believe, however, that the plan is based on climate change, and therefore I actually have a question that is relatively open, simply whether the government is now making more thorough assessments of three conditions that I think climate change was foolishly answered. One is food-benefit assessments, the other is the balance between domestic and foreign emissions from different interventions proposed in the Climate Action Plan, and the third is more detailed overviews of the costs of different climate action, as e.g. the one category of Climate Action is costs over DKK 1500 per tonne, but if it is 1500 or 15 000, the answer is bad. The question is, do we have a better professional basis than the climate on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2820	Thank you for a good question. Cost-benefits are central when we are going to work on climate policy in the future, simply because we are forced to get the most climate for money and cut as fast as possible. Then we need to know what we do when we use the targeted actions and not the symbol actions. But I also want to say that diet-benefit is at the heart of climate change, which is one of the main tasks that was just given there. Therefore, a breakdown of the measures is given after their actual cost-benefit. Then, on a self-contained basis, we will assess from the government's side the use of all the competences we have in the government to go even deeper into it – absolutely – in the work on the climate plan. Also, domestic and foreign issues are important, because we have to cut everything, but if cuts only move to other countries instead of happening in Norway, one has not achieved anything. I agree with that. Otherwise, I would say that a climate cure shows why it is important to work systematically. It's an important subject base of over a thousand pages that explains why you should and can do different things. The document 8 we are dealing with today is on a total of three pages, and does not provide a very good basis for decision on the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2833	One of the majority proposals in the Committee is an investigation into carbon capture and storage in Fredrikstad and Kristiansand. But more clearly, the capture and storage projects in Brevik and on Klemetsrud. Last week we received news that the government will demand co-financing from the EU, which at best will lead to deferral to 2026/2027. In the worst cases, the projects will be confused, despite the fact that the Stortinget has asked for an investment decision already in the autumn. Does the Council of State consider that the capture and storage of carbon by industrial means is still important, and how will the Council of State contribute to alleviating the turmoil that has now arisen in the projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2841	The carbon capture and storage project is now the oil and energy minister's table, but, as far as I am aware, there is no requirement for one to have EU funding in order to move forward. But of course it's one thing that one looks at, and that opens up would be useful if we could do it. We have said quite clearly that co-financing from other countries is important and desirable, but how the carbon capture and storage project is going to be, and what the government decides, we don't know yet, because that decision has not been taken by the government. But what we've done is that we've been working systematically all along, on a tight schedule, to get to know the type of area that's suitable for storage, through our own basic research, through negotiations and discussions with private companies about what they're willing to contribute to, through important and successful pilot projects in the two places that the representative calls – all in order to get a good basis for decision. With a good basis of decision, I don't just mean giving the gold card to some private companies and looking at what it costs at the end, it's about getting control of the costs we in that case charge ourselves in what is a very important project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2848	We hear the government councils and other representatives of the government parties talk about Norwegian emissions having fallen in recent years. One of the main causes of increased use of biofuels. In recent years, there has been a high consumption of rainforest-causing palm oil, leading to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions elsewhere in the world. By 2019, the sale of palm oil-based biofuels increased from 91 million litres to 111 million litres. My question to the Council of State is: How long will the government continue to put an orangutan on the mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2855	It is true that the use of palm oil in Norway went up slightly from 2018 to 2019, but he went down from a dramatically higher level in 2017, so the development has, after all, gone in the right direction, as we have seen. But it is also important for us that the biofuels used are the most resilient. This is one of the reasons why the government has proposed to impose a user charge on conventional biofuels from 1 July. That's one of the reasons why we've constantly increased the demand for advanced, which is now rising every year. That's good, that's the most resilient, and that's why we also have on hearing suggestions to increase the demand for advanced even more in the future – because we want it to be the most resilient biofuel to be used. And it's true that biofuels are part of the explanation that emissions have fallen sharply in Norway in the last few years – or rather, I shouldn't say strongly, because they should have gone down even more, but they go down. But it's not just that, it's also that every other Norwegian buys an electric car, it's that we ban the use of mineral oil for firing, and that's that we target public transport – there's over 100 million more collective travelers now than in 2013. All of that together has an effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2862	I listened with interest to the input to the Council of State, where he warned against a climate policy according to the approach of invasion and thought you had to work systematically. I fully agree with that, and that's exactly why one of the first things we in the Green Party did after entering the Oslo City Council in 2015 was to have a climate budget, which has now inspired cities like New York, Rio de Janeiro, San Francisco, Stockholm, Helsinki, Sydney, etc. to do exactly the same, by model from Oslo. To point out that a problem in the climate debate is that many of the proposals are symbolic policies – a word that the Council of State used in the exchange of lines now – and also a false problem that is out there on an approach, do I really seem to confuse the debate more than it helps, and therefore my question is: What concrete action does the opposition use to promote is what the Council of State thinks is by the method of inception?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2869	Firstly, I would like to start by saying that I found the work with the climate budget in both Oslo, Bergen and other cities positive. I think it gives a lot of good knowledge. It also strikes me that the main challenge for Oslo right now must be to get rid of it instead of that they continue to go up, as they have done in the last two years. I think working systematically with knowledge and actions that work is very important. When it comes to the proposals we have made today, and what I think is by the input method: well, at least I would say that part of the proposals doesn't seem extremely thoughtful, for example. that one will introduce a climate shift for business without fully explaining what it will consist of, in addition to the fact that one today has a very good tool for business through targeted support via Enova, by increasing the CO 2 charge targeted year by year, and through the new measures launched in Phase 3. The kind of proposal where one just asks us to do something without explaining what it is is is not a very good way to pursue climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2879	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2886	If the Council of State is concerned about increased emissions in Oslo, perhaps he should take a little talk with his colleagues in the government who are pushing forward large, gigantic motorway projects. It's not going to contribute positively. On the other hand, it would have made a positive contribution if the government, for example, had not proposed cuts in the train effort, as they have actually done, on important sections, such as: against Hamar, which is one of the key routes for transferring goods and people to public transport and trains. There's been a deal about it, so there's going to be some money left, but I think maybe the council had earned it a little bit less... well, I'll be careful with using words, President. Neither the world nor Norway is on the right course in this matter. I think I'm recording an atmosphere in this debate that indicates that you haven't taken seriously either about the climate or that we're too slow about the transition here, and that it's actually going to hurt us. It will damage Norwegian industry that we are not the quickest to get to the change that needs to be made. In a difficult time, there is time to use that possibility of conversion. Instead, last week the Stortinget introduced a huge risk relief by expanding unprofitable oil projects, for example. in the Barents Sea, and connect us more closely to the evolution that both harms the climate, and that does not allow us to get to that transformation. We could have made a bigger plan to get more goods on the track. We could, for example, We had power on the Rørosbanen and the Solørbahn, and we could reduce 400 car trains per day, which thunder through the Gudbrand valley and the Østerdalen, and which have nothing to do with Oslo, but could travel out and out of the country. It would have meant a lot, but we don't. The government is not adding money to realize any of this. In the case of a ferry and a boat, some of the counties have gone ahead. Now they're left with the bill, and the government won't take it. Now more counties say to the municipal committee when we have a hearing, that they may not dry up making these climate-friendly investments in the future, which also create commissions for the yard industry, and which lead to that conversion. It is then time to propose that this should be compensated, so that we can achieve both climate change and industrial development in Norway. It's possible, but with the self-satisfaction that the government has, I don't think we're going to get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2897	I have to say that I am fascinated by the climate policy of some parties. One would think that there were results and emission reductions that were the purpose and purpose, but one is left with the impression that it would hurt, that it would cost some jobs, and that we would like to make decisions without even knowing the consequences of them. It is even said from the pulpit that global climate scientists have warned of the new tax egiment that we have made temporarily for the petroleum industry. I haven't got it with me. I think that's exactly the opposite that's important, that we're able to keep good life and activity in the petroleum industry, so we can keep knowledge and competence while we're in the process of transition to new products. If we're going to succeed in CCS, if we're going to succeed in sea wind, if we're going to succeed in aquaculture, that's because of one thing, and that's that we have a petroleum industry that's with us and that has the necessary competence to cope with those projects. The largest contribution and the contribution of Norway to the implementation of the Paris Agreement is to export gas to Europe. Now it's not politically right to salute something that's fossil. One might be against gas, but one doesn't get away with that if we can't solve the problem around coal, we won't solve the problems. The next major climate project in which Norway participates, which shows results, is Baltic Pipe. It is a gas pipeline that goes from the Norwegian gas system to Poland and allows Poland to convert from coal to gas. It allows Poland to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 80 million tonnes. It's about a half the time as much as the entire Norwegian emission. Then we can talk about being a green battery for Europe, like, among other things. The centre party's over. This is also important in the other issues that have been criticised for the Barents Sea, because if we are to be able to give Europe that opportunity, we must have access to raw materials, and access to the Barents Sea gives us that very thing. So the last things we've dealt with, the Barents Sea Management Plan and a new tax regime, we've done in the name of the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2916	I had initially not intended to say more in this debate, until I heard the message from the representative Karin Andersen, because unfortunately it reminds me of historical falsification when one tries to give the impression that what the Storting has contributed to the last weeks, is to give huge opportunities for the oil industry to make wolf-like investments on Norwegian pedestals that will drive emissions from the oil and gas industries up in Norway – just as if it is completely flawed when a claim is that infrastructure development in and out of Norway's capital is about a desire for the most possible private cars subbands on the broadest possible road. That's not true. But the plurality of this house has realized that the bus also needs fields to run on, and then it needs to go, and that the food transport still actively chooses to transport large parts of its goods on the road, because there is not a railway all places in a long country like Norway. It is an attempt to create a sense of reality for which there is no basis – just as they do with many of the proposals in the proposal for a representative that we should actually debate. I don't know if there's a deliberate attempt to tell anything other than what's true – outside this room I would dare to use even stronger words than that – or whether that's because one doesn't want to know that what we've been doing in Stortinget in the last weeks is to ensure that the industry that supports competence and not least with Norwegian capital to further develop also new renewable energy sources, and as a contribution to large, heavy technology shifts, like us. have been in the ferry fleet, thank you for having a yard industry that has been competent enough to take these steps long before others thought about it. That's the kind of industrial workplace we're securing with these grips. That once again, as usual, I would almost choose to sit myself on the sidebar, be up to them, but that doesn't mean they can tell a different story about reality than the one that's true. So I'm asking the SV representatives in later articles to stick too well to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2925	We discussed the petroleum tax package in this room on Friday, so I will not go deep into the other than commenting that the supplier industry actually needs projects in order to also be able to convert and contribute to the conversion of e.g. the socket. The strange thing, which we also discussed on Friday, and which Karin Andersen, for some reason, does not mention in his post, is that she represents a party that is opposed to the Johan Castberg field, but is for landing from Johan Castberg, a position of the Socialist Left Party, in other words, regardless of what environmental advice might say about such a landing. They just mean it. To use Karin Andersen's words, perhaps she has simply not taken up the importance of environmental advice in such matters. Then you hear from the representatives of Aukrust, Haltbrecken and Andersen that you have become self-satisfied on the civil side. Then I ask myself, is that the only argument that the left-hand side has in climate policy? Because we hear it every time we're in this room, and it happens every time after someone on the civil side has found the facts, that the emissions have fallen. It is not self-satisfaction to establish facts, and at least it is not self-satisfaction to do so when you say in the same sling that we want to do more than what we are doing today. Our entire climate policy is about doing more every year, and now we are going to have a systematic climate policy for all sectors in order to achieve the 2030 targets. In transport, it is important to mention more public travel, better urban growth agreements, a rail reform that requires different companies to compete to get more people to take the railway, while at the same time making it cheaper overall to operate the rail service. That's the other left-hand side. Another thing they're opposed to, although they're very concerned that we're going to fly less and take more trains across borders in Europe, is the pan-European policy that makes it possible. They are against the fourth railway package, for example, although it means that it will be easier to take trains across national borders in Europe. Once again, I have to ask Karin Andersen's words: Maybe they have simply not considered how important it is to be able to pursue a common policy in order to actually be able to take more trains across borders? That is the problem: the climate policy of the Left is just rhetoric; it is just a long debate note. And then someone else gets to deliver the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2939	Once again, we hear representatives from the government parties boasting that Norwegian emissions have fallen in recent years. The Council of State said that the increase we have seen in the use of palm oil from 2018 to 2019 was a slight increase. Well, that was a 20 pst. increase – a 20 pst. increase. How can the Council of State say that there is a slight increase, while talking about Norwegian emission reductions of maybe 2 pst. as a severe reduction? How can 2 pst. be a severe reduction in one case, while a 20 pst. increase in palm oil use is a slight increase in the second case? Let's look at the numbers behind these percentages. The world's increased emissions resulting from the government's rainforest destruction through increased use of palm oil are similar to the emissions reductions in the Norwegian accounts from road traffic last year. The increase in palm oil last year, according to the Minister, ate up the sharp reduction in Norwegian emissions. What we're hearing is that the government is actually boasting of helping to cut down the rainforest. Had not my hair fell off this weekend, I am sure it had come to fall off during this debate. At the top of it all, the government has presented a proposal for a new biofuel policy that could further increase the consumption of palm oil. So it wasn't enough to have a small increase of 20 pst. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has sent a consultation proposal that can in fact mean that we are increasing palm oil use beyond what happened in 2019. What does that mean? Well, that means further destruction of the rainforest. This means a further increase in greenhouse gas emissions in other parts of the world. This means further destruction of the habitats of 200 million indigenous peoples of the world. And that means the government's going to keep putting the orange on the thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2950	It is a reality that the decisions made by the Storting in the last few days bind us more firmly and make us more oil dependent than before. When we debate this, the Minister of Finance says this is going to trigger 115 billion. kr more in oil investments. Is there anyone who thinks we should invest in oil and not pick up the oil, not sell it, that it won't release this? Then you are very happy here, because it doesn't count in Norway's accounts. But it does, and it also locks fixed investments, capital and competences into an industry that everyone, except the Progress Party, says we have to make less dependent on. These grips are not good climate and environmental policies. This is also a bad industrial policy. Yes, it is right that the yard industry must have something to do. Therefore, SV has made many proposals on this, on alternative projects, and we have also promised the county councils that when they conclude contracts on new boats, we will be on the side of the state and pay that bill. The majority here don't, the government doesn't, so several county councils have said during the hearing that they may not dare do more. Is this a good development? No, it's a bad development, and it means that the alternative skills that could have evolved and contributed to the technology shift we need are not there. We have to have roads because the railway doesn't exist, says the Progress Party. Yes, that's why SV is proposing that we actually have to start the long freight routes in particular, which means that we can bring down the emissions, and that we can drive on these roads. Where I live, I hardly dare drive any more, because there is trailer traffic so heavy – and then emission-intensive. But you'd like to keep doing that, and not be involved in the conversion that makes this possible. If you build the road first, it becomes road and not rail – we must soon have learned that now. There's a lot of things that should be done here. There's a lot of people who tell about themselves when they're standing here and on other pulpits. I have four grandchildren, and I have to say I think a lot about them and what we're leaving to them in the future, when we don't have the power to make the changes that are now going to happen in order for us to have jobs that we can make money on in the future, so that we can drive the welfare community and people can have something to live on. I mean – and I'm not alone about it, there are many who have a lot of economic competence that means it too – that some of the grips that Stortinget has done in the last few days are some of the stupidest things that have happened, and with regard to the climate and the environment it is directly harmful.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2961	Jon Georg Dale started his first post by saying, ‘Today, we are taking new important steps for a sound climate policy.’ The increase in population today is nothing. There's not one thing that's going to be the result of this debate. That is what the government parties, with the Progress Party on tow, believe is the right thing to do. Councillor Rotevatn was enormously self-satisfied, and we have heard Stefan Heggelund and others from the right being very self-satisfied with his results. Well, the results are that they break the objectives of the climate agreement. The results are also that they now have some numbers where they can show that it goes down at least. It goes down less than the error margin from year to year. But Sveinung Rotevatern even managed to make it sound like a good news, because there was a margin of error, which could mean that it had actually gone down more than what the numbers showed. We know that we're going to halve our emissions in ten years. Then it's not very impressive to bring them down a few percent. Is my government's problem that they're self-satisfied? No, it's not at all. Left-people and Right-people can be so self-satisfied they just want for me. The problem is that emissions do not go down. The problem is that they are in the process of coping with a climate disaster. It is not just about all other countries, it concerns Norway as much as everyone else. I believe there is no climate minister in the world who can beat himself on the chest in the way that Sveinung Rotevatn does, and say that he has delivered, that we are on the right path. The main argument of Mr. Sveinung Rotevatn against adopting anything today was that he believed this was on the approach to invasion. When the Environmental Party De Greene Une Bastholm asked if he could say what he thought was the approach here, he thought it was that the Stortinget would now force him to put in place a climate reward scheme. The proposal against which he warns is that we should work out a climate reward scheme. It could be, for example, be a zero-emission fund, as called for by the NHO and other actors. For example, it could. host. But when they wanted it, they got the skin full from the right side. So once when they were going to use bad luck against the NHO, it was for their climate exposure. Lars Haltbrecken has addressed the debate on biofuels. There was the Left Ally with the rest of the opposition. They were equally impatient when Vidar Helgesen did not deliver. They put forward proposals here in Stortingen and got it adopted. Then they went into the government offices themselves and became as slow as the rest of the right parties. So we have ten years to deliver in climate policy. It's just to get started. The government's answer to all the challenges is that they're going to come up with some plan that's always going to come a little later the year we're discussing it. We don't have time to wait, so we're going to keep making suggestions. This isn't rhetoric, it's not like Stefan Heggelund said that we're just promoting rhetoric. No, it's 49 proposals that he'll vote against tomorrow at 15:00, but he's obviously wearing the night if he's changed his mind and seen that there's a lot of sense in voting for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2978	I didn't intend to take the floor in this debate, but after hearing some of the comments, I have to do it anyway. First, 2 pst. decrease in 2019 – if there is a small number, i.e. 1 million tonnes down in one year, it is almost as much as Oslo’s overall emissions. In a year it goes down with it, and it's four years in a row, and it goes down this year as well. It's not going fast enough, and the pace has to go up. That is exactly why in February the Council of State notified the United Nations that we should cut our emissions by 50 pst., or 55 pst., by 2030. It's ambitious, and we're going to do it together with the EU. Now we are waiting for them to make their decision – it will probably be in September – hopefully on 55 p.m. Then it is no longer a goal that the Left has pursued in the past. No, there is a commitment to be implemented, and the measures required to implement it will be taken. Then there are areas where Norway is at the forefront. In the transport sector, we do more in Norway than in any other country. The electric car bet is part of it. We've been doing that for almost 20 years, and it's almost 50 pst. of the sale so far this year. We have to go into 50 pst. to achieve the objective of selling only zero-emission cars within five years, negotiated by the Left a few years ago. In the case of elf ferries, what happens in shipping, no one else has such a pace in that shift as we have in Norway. We presented an action plan last year. It must be driven forward. So to Lars Haltbrecken: zero emission solutions are what we need, but it takes time to get in place. In the transition to get there, to bring down the emissions quickly enough, we need to use biofuels. Biogas is a zero emission solution. We'll reinforce that. We have the largest facility in the Nordic region in Forest, and more is being used. But biofuels must also be used. There is no doubt that in the escalation plan I have been on and behind, and as the Stortinget has decided, everyone agrees that we should not use palm oil. But two things: To get the advanced biofuels that we need, you have to have the courage to move forward. It's always had the bulk of the population. We're going to produce more advanced biofuels. We're going to do it in Norway. And we come along with the rest of Europe to remove palm oil. We spend the same amount of money internationally and more than we've done before to care for the rainforest. Then you have to bring with you, when you tell me how much rainforest is being destroyed, that in Indonesia, fortunately, rainforests are being lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e2998	I take the word to correct the impression that was probably created after the insertion of the representative Haltbrecken, namely that now more and more palm oil is being used in Norway. That's not correct. Last year a total of 111 million litres of palm oil were used in Norway. In 2017, 317 million litres of palm oil was used. There is no rise, but there is a decrease of approx. Two thirds. Then one would like to think that it should go even further down, and the government is that it is the resilient fuel that will prevail in the future. We therefore propose taxes on conventional biofuels from 1 July. We are therefore proposing to systematically increase the proportion of advanced biofuels in the future. I think that representatives from SV need to update their speech points a little from 2017, because the answer every time they release it in Norway goes down – and they do every year – is that palm oil is the reason for it, even if the use of palm oil also goes down. It's not in the pile. This is a very simple example just last year: if an isolated set looks at the effect of palm oil, he stands for about. 100000 tonnes cut in Norway. Well, then together, it went down by 1 million tons. I think the representatives from SV have to assume that there are a lot of other things that cause us to cut in emissions. It's that every other car sold is an electric car. It is that more and more people benefit from the provision of public transport – over 100 million more travels a year now than when SV left the government. It is that we ban the cultivation of ants, that we frighten in elves, that we have had a decline in the oil and gas sector – I could continue. All of this should be taken into consideration by the representatives of the SV if they're going to talk to crooks about what's actually happening to emissions in Norway. You can talk about failure margins from year to year. Yeah, there's probably a margin of error in the emission calculations from year to year, but it goes down every year. You can sit down and talk about error margins and see what direction this is. I don't think it's interesting to see what happens from week to week, from month to month, maybe even not from year to year, but when the four years in a row go down, the direction is very clear. Finally, to the Labour Party and Åsmund Aukrust, who talked about things not going fast enough, and that everything would be better if only they got away with it. I let myself doubt it, because what is the Labour Party working for here in the Chamber? I understand that they are working against competition on the railways, against rail reform, they are working towards protecting vulnerable nature, and they are saying yes to the regeneration of ants, a negotiator with oil directors about the fiscal policy to be pursued for the oil and gas sector. Still, what is put on the table is not something I perceive as particularly sensible climate policy. There may be a sense of working party policy, but it's not necessarily the same thing. At least it hasn't been historical, and it's certainly not when we're going to be able to cut out even more in the future – like the government has been doing for four years in a row. We have to move on. That's why we've strengthened our ambitions for 2030. We're going to cut even more. The plan the government has put in and is working on to get it done, comes to Stortinget in the course of the year. I look forward to a good debate then with hopeful broad pluralities around even better climate policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3013	Why does the Aukrus representative use as one of his main arguments that emissions have to go down? Why does he use it as an argument against the government parties and the civil side? We agree with that. Then we find that it is a fact that emissions go down with this government, but that they need to go down more, and therefore we are going to have a systematic climate policy for all sectors based on the knowledge base of Climate Change. Then I think it's a little funny that, twice – I think – in this debate, representatives from the left have referred to the climate message that the red-green government presented. It wasn't that much to brag about, so we had to go in the right direction. Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken had a slightly different role, as part of the environmental movement. He came to the right to make sure that the message would be better than it was. It seems that the Workers' Party now has a need to become popular with someone they're not particularly popular with, and that's part of the environmental movement. But then they should deliver better than they do now, in this debate. For example: Is the Workers' Party still in favour of its own proposal for a zero-emission fund for industrial transport? Does the Workers' Party continue to talk about their model? So we have a CO2 fund for business transport, which we have introduced, which works much better, which is a better model. There is no point in standing on the platform and pretending that there are no measures for CO 2 in the transport of food when we have a measure that is even better than what the Workers' Party is proposing. It is quite remarkable that it is still part of the rhetorical booklet of the Workers' Party. Take out the point, say it to the communication advisors as soon as possible. That's not a good point. So to the Socialist Left: why are they against a common policy in Europe that makes it easier to take trains across national borders? You ask and ask, and it's impossible to get an answer. Why does the left-hand side in Norway think that competition in aviation is good, but that there is something negative when you talk about trains? Is it possible to get answers to these questions? If you really have a commitment for more people to take trains, you should also have a policy that allows more people to take the train, and not just vote against every single time the government makes good suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3030	It is part of addressing this debate. First, the working party won't deal with the facts, and it's a little bit alarming. When you deny that emissions go down four years in a row, you're on another planet. However, the Workers' Party has experience in moon landings, and it has not been particularly successful, for example. in Mongstad. To SV and the fact that we don't bet on collective: that extension to Hamar would be a year delayed is the symbol that you don't bet on collective. There's never been so much money inside the national transport plan, there's never been half of the share of the collective. There is so much more collective capacity in Norway today. It also contributes to the 8 pst. cut as it is now in the transport sector, reducing greenhouse gas emissions. So it's not just the orangutan of the tank, the capacity of the collective is significantly larger. Rolling pavement and 5-minute collective departures in Oslo are from when the Right and Left sat in the City Council and actually had the help of the Progress Party also then. It is possible to get these bets together with the Advance Party. The share of collectives and especially trains has never been higher. There's a huge lag here on special trains, which it's hard to take in again. With the exceedances you've also had on Follobanen, among other things, we're facing some challenges. But we keep pace up, and there'll be double tracks for Hamar in time. For the palm oil debate: Yes, the representative Haltbrecken prefers to pull it up. But the starting point is that in Norway, with the left at the negotiating table, we have increased the share and commitment of biofuels, from 4 pst. until 20 pst. in five years. Of which the biofuel fraction is 40 pst. And that's what we should be talking about. It goes up and up, but we need to speed up production in Norway and in the other Scandinavian countries, because it is those who make sure that proportion and rate of interference are kept up. Palm oil is an international commodity for which it is demanding to ban, we all have experience, regardless of who is in government. Norway is also the first country in the world to introduce a blending requirement for biofuels in aviation fuels. We're going ahead in all of these areas. The same applies to hydrogen. The representative Halleland said that we have to get the gas out – yes, and gas is a short bridge to it. Next time, hydrogen comes. Norway is the one with the green hydrogen, and it is also an important both industrial and transport activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3039	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3044	We hear both the representative Elvesuen and the state council Rotevatn defend the high consumption of palm oil. From 2018 to 2019, which is the latest figures on palm oil use in Norway, palm oil use increased from just over 90 million. liters for at least 111 million. liters. That's an increase of about 20 pst. What we need to know about this number is that there is one company that has not reported its palm oil use, and that in the worst case, it may have spent as much as 20 to 30 million. litre palm oil in addition to the 111 million. litre of palm oil mentioned. So last year, palm oil could have been a lot higher than we thought. At the top of it all, a proposal is presented which can lead to even greater increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3049	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3066	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3073	I'm glad to be able to launch a debate on the communication on the cultural environment. A generally good cooperation climate – called the cultural environment – within the family and culture committee is also reflected in the work on this Communication. Thank you to the members of the Committee in this way. The notification is based on two decisions taken in the treatment of the 2018 State Budget, which asked the government to wait for the substance of the changed national targets until the Landfill Communication on the Field of Cultural Memory was addressed. The government has been loyal to this. It would be critical of the government if it had presented a sandwich table of new concrete measures at that time. New programmes are coming later; today it is the overall strategy in the field to be debated and adopted. Hopefully, this debate will be little about previous vocabulary shifts in cultural memory policy. The targets that were strung up more than ten years ago have not been followed up – yes, they have gone on and on until those degrees out to date that there may be reason to use the word cultural memory about them. There is no doubt that most of the parties in this room have something to answer for in terms of the lack of follow-up of the targets, and there are many reasons for that. To the extent that this becomes a topic in the debate, I hope this word change appears to be an appendix, a appendix that can be removed hereafter for the benefit of the patient. In line with this, the main content of the Culture Environmental Communication focuses on strategies for how to deal with this important theme of our history, identity, self-respect, international reputation and certainly also economic development. Culture is just as full of everything we live for, not of, and cultural memories, cultural environments and our nature form the story of history from which culture emerges or leaps out. I note that the opposition believes that the message is unilaterally committed to dealing with cultural memory protection on the premises of traditional environmental protection. I'm a little uncertain about what's being put into the term 'traditional environmental protection', but now it's happening that both the Environment Minister and I belong to a party that believes that most of the things should be handled on the premises of environmental protection. It may be interesting to change words about what in cultural environment contexts should in that case be excluded from such considerations. Thus, in the context of the 2018 state budget, it was proposed to present new national objectives for the cultural memory field. It was, and I fully agree with that, shown that the former national objectives of the cultural memory field had a too strong object and state orientation, and that the new objectives need to place greater emphasis on the benefits of society by taking care of the cultural heritage, by putting it into use, and on commitment and responsibility. As I experience it, today's message is a clear follow-up to the idea of going away from object orientation and, instead, focusing on conservation strategies and, to a greater extent, focusing on the benefits of society by taking care of the cultural heritage. The left now sits at the rudder in the department that has followed up this, and I feel that the professional environment will also have it this way. So during the examination of the 2018 state budget, the Left got the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party on the proposal I mentioned, which I repeat: ‘The government is asked to wait for the change in national targets to be taken into account until the bigotry message on the cultural memory field has been addressed.’ Now the opposition parties, i.e. the same three parties, promote a proposal that all medieval stone churches should have a normal maintenance level by 2030. It is, in my view, a very concrete objective with object and state orientation, and it happens before the extension message is presented and adopted. So they're going to have more of what didn't work out. Otherwise, I find it difficult to see that the decision we seem to make today will be considered to be a stone to the government 2029-2033, to put it this way. Instead, I want us to start work on the maintenance of the stone churches as soon as possible, but first strategy. We would like to discuss who has worked with the greatest zeal for the preservation of the stone churches in the country, but that is not the point here. The point is about the firmness of the policy. What has been done today that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV now believe that it is imperative to set a concrete goal for the stone church before the adoption of this message? I fear that the reason for this is that the three parties have not fully understood what the message is all about – that is, first to highlight conservation strategies and then to specify in what way they can best be achieved, by giving us all overall a better cultural environment policy where the preservation of the stone churches is a natural link.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3099	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for good cooperation and also the government for such a proposal. It is good for Stortinget to have a review of the entire cultural memory policy – or cultural environment policy, as it is now supposed to call it. It's an important area, and especially in a situation where the world is in rapid change, it's important that we take care of history, take care of roots, take care of knowledge. So we know that these big, fast changes also put greater pressure on these memories. The report reports loss of cultural memories that occurs so quickly in some areas that we may have lost a lot of valuable history in some decades. At the same time, a large potential is described by taking care of this, not only in the form of a cultural memory policy, but also in the form of industrial policy. Travel life, experiences – why do we travel around the world? Well, often to experience history, cultural memories and landscapes – that kind of thing. I think we're going to see more of that in the future. If we are to succeed in a good cultural environment policy, we must have clear objectives. The document proposes three goals that you could say are not very clear, not very measurable, and definitely not very temporal. It is true in this sector, as in the cultural sector, that good words are often held. That's why it was different thinking when under several governments we had clear conservation programs that were liberating different from the round formulations. They were concrete, they were measurable, they were fixed in time, and although we did not reach them, they have been an important tool and I would also believe an important tool for government councils to travel at budgetary conferences and fight for appropriations. Now this becomes weaker. The three overall objectives are all right, the Workers' Party can also join them, but they need to be complemented by clear conservation programmes. When we haven't achieved the goals, we learn both ourselves and our kids that then we just have to work even harder. The solution to not achieving goals is not to give up targets. Therefore, the Riksrevision's criticism should be taken to heart and said, "Well, we're going to do the job, we're going to fold up the sleeves, and we're going to achieve the goals even if we have to shift the deadline somewhat." The Communication stresses the importance of conservation programmes by the Ministry itself. It almost seems that this is written with a different conclusion than the one that came, and maybe there has been a round in the Ministry of Finance – what do I know? And then you've ended up with a vaguer ambition. In any case, the Council of State should know that from the opposition, a higher, clearer and clearer ambition will receive warm support. It's important, because it's about many of our most important historical traditions. The cultural memory area that is as fast as it is right now is described as maritime – the naus, the vessels, what has been the most important support of our prosperity and our way of living. The Committee also stresses the great need for the maintenance and maintenance of churches and religious memories. From the Workers' Party it is also incredibly important to take care of the technical-industrial memories, our business history, our work history, what brought wealth. These too, we see that we can have a great potential when they are made alive, perhaps with new activity, while preserving these cultural memories as an active site of visit. We also underline the importance of having – what we should call it – a clear goal or ambition that our most important memories of Viking times can be given an international status through UNESCO, and not least that we also follow up where we have taken on a UNESCO obligation. I then want to point specifically to Røros in my constituency, which is a unique cultural memory. National minorities are important. We look forward to the government going through how we should deal with women's memories, and we also look forward to the government coming back with a review of how private people who need to take on a large amount of archaeological responsibility, especially in agriculture, can be better funded. The government parties say that they agree with this goal, so the Labour Party has been waiting to go in for a concrete order in this context, perhaps also because we had a suspicion that we did not get a majority for it, but we will come back strongly if the government does not follow up. I address the proposals to which the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3124	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3129	People have always set a trail behind them in the surroundings. These tracks make up the community’s memory of past generations’ societies and way of life. The influence of humanity on the environment is now so dominant that the loss of natural diversity and global climate crisis has become our greatest challenges. The challenges we face require a change in course, including in cultural environment policy. That's what this big message adds up to. The Storting Message represents a paradigm shift in the area. The UN Sustainable Development Goals are being reintroduced in a completely new way, and the importance of cultural heritage for sustainable development is well described. The message takes entirely new consideration for intangible cultural memories, which of course is an equally important part of our cultural historical heritage as a physical building or an object. In the new communication on the cultural environment, we are thinking a whole new way of understanding cultural memories. Instead of specific objectives, we are talking about conservation strategies. Parts of the opposition problemattribute to the political anchoring of the cultural memory field at state level. I would then like to remind you that the matter has been to the Ministry of the Environment since its establishment in 1972. Rather, the right answer is to support the establishment of the Ministry’s Cultural Heritage Forum, as a cooperative body, modelled on the Ministry’s World Heritage Forum and the Interministerial Landscape Group. I will have the three new national objectives of the government in the field of cultural environment policy: Everyone shall have the opportunity to engage and take responsibility for the cultural environment. The cultural environment shall contribute to sustainable development through overall societal planning. A diversity of the cultural environment shall be taken into account as a basis for knowledge, experience and use. The red-green parties criticize the government in harsh order for its efforts in the field of cultural memory. The Government has not followed up the initiatives adopted in 2005, it is claimed, and they bring forward the Riksrevision and budgets as the truth of the claims. The truth is that the same Riksrevision was not satisfied with its three-year audit – which usually closes audits – during the period of red-green government. That is why a fourth year’s audit was carried out. Among other things, there were: written that ‘there are no summaries’ and that ‘there is no satisfactory reporting system in place to achieve the target’. Furthermore, it states: ‘that the target of a representative sample of decision-making buildings by 2020 is not met’ and ‘increases the likelihood that the target will not be achieved by 2020’. This shows us that already in the red-green government period, which provided the basis for the 2020 targets, there were major shortcomings in the work. Or in another way: the stake was not enough. We can also choose to look at other parameters. The annual loss of cultural memories has been reduced and the conservation programme for archaeological cultural memories has regularly maintained 420 out of 450 archaeological cultural memories selected. With regard to the economic priorities of the field, we have seen an increase in the total appropriations for the Riksantikvaren and the Cultural Memory Fund of 31 p.m. from 2014 to 2019. The opposition writes that there is no indication of a strengthening of the voluntary effort, and they draw up the VAT compensation as one example. That claim falls on its own unfairness. The government has a goal of stepping up the VAT compensation to 1.8 billion. NOK 2021. Since 2012, there has been strong growth in the scheme, of over 1 billion. NOK, to nearly SEK 1.7 billion. kr. Exposure and efforts by private owners and volunteers are the main reason why many cultural environments continue to exist. There is a long tradition of voluntary involvement and efforts for cultural heritage in Norway. That is why I am pleased that the Committee is promising that voluntary action may be the most important pillar of Norwegian cultural memory protection. The Committee has clearly recognised that expenditure on archaeological studies can be a major cost to many, and that we ask the government to assess this. I am also pleased that the government in the communication writes that there is a basis for looking into whether the agricultural industry is being unfairly burdened, and will consider how this can possibly be done. I also believe that the decision we are making today, where we ‘ask the government in the context of conservation strategies to make proposals on how the state can stimulate private owners of cultural memories and environments to smooth, good maintenance through tax and tax incentives’, will be well received.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3167	I also want to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good cooperation in the matter, and I agree with his words that while we often discuss things that we live with in this room, sometimes we have things that are more about things that we live for. Cultural memories, cultural environments and landscapes are part of our heritage and identity, our shared responsibility, and it's a resource. Norway is also a rich country in terms of the cultural environment and heritage. I am therefore very pleased with this, among other things. The representative spoke on the consensus within the Committee on the importance of raising the profile, inter alia. our Viking heritage and our Viking ships as something worthy of world heritage status, and to bring it up in that context. What is important for the Progress Party in the field of the cultural environment is that it focuses on conservation through active and responsible use and making cultural heritage available, and not on creating unnecessary conflicts between the management of the cultural environment on the one hand and societal development and accessibility on the other. Focusing on travel life is therefore important. The cultural environment offers opportunities for experiences, and we have a great potential in Norway for economic development and travel experiences in the cultural environment. We in the Progress Party want a positive yes attitude from national authorities, but also from local authorities, which provides greater accessibility and opportunities for increased value creation through the combination of both cultural and travel experiences, which can make these experiences even better. We in the Progress Party are also concerned that finding and caring for cultural values should not create unnecessary conflicts and should not unnecessarily stop development and for example. construction projects. Developmental conflicts may arise when environmental and cultural heritage is found, but we believe it is important to make judgemental assessments that do not stop or unnecessarily impede the necessary development of society in any such context. It is important to ensure a balance between the different societal considerations, because both the community concerned and the different actors, for example, are under pressure. development projects, infrastructure projects and other things are stopped due to cultural environmental conditions. However, where there is a need to intervene in private property because of important findings, we are also very concerned that this should be fully compensated, so that the burden on private owners and social actors is minimised. I would also like to highlight another important part of Norwegian culture and heritage, namely stone churches and other churches of cultural historical value. We in the Progress Party are very pleased with the consensus that also came in connection with the communication on the Information Society Fund, where there is an obligation to increase efforts to ensure this kind of cultural heritage building. We therefore also support a proposal in the case that sets a high level of ambition for the maintenance of stone churches, which is an important part of Norwegian cultural heritage. We also support a proposal to increase incentives for private individuals who themselves contribute significantly in the field of heritage conservation. The importance of voluntary action was previously mentioned from the pulpit here. We fully support that, but we also need incentives and arrangements to ensure that individuals who take responsibility get a grip on their shoulders and support from government teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3184	When Knut Arild Hareide, Minister of Environmental Protection at the Bondevik II government in 2005, presented the first cultural memo, it was a major event in the cultural protection sector in Norway. For many years the field had had a lack of priority, and the maturity was so large that 87 pst. of the peaced cultural memories in Norway were in some form of decay. The call from the sector that something had to be done was unisonous. Therefore, on a broad political front and with all parties on the team, the Stortinget took on the government’s invitation to open arms, and a cross-political majority argued that funding for cultural memory protection would escalate by 175 million. kr. In addition, a self-funded value creation programme was to be established. National objectives for cultural memory protection and concrete ways of measuring progress were shattered. The target line would be 2020. Later in 2005, there was a change of government, but because all parties participated in the agreement on cultural memory policy, the red-green government continued the line that was strung up in the spring of 2005. In 2013, the same red-green government presented a new cultural memory message, summarising the political efforts and consolidating and adjusting the policy objectives, and the results of the National Audit Office were answered. It was particularly important for the Central Party in the years when the Red-Green Government increased the subsidy funds, which was definitely what happened. For example, in 2005, the Riksantikvaren budget had a total expenditure side of 252 million. kr, while the corresponding figure in the red-green government’s draft budget for 2014 was almost a double of that sum, i.e. 550 million. kr. The cultural memory fund, which only had 13 million. SEK at disposal in 2005, received a total of 63.5 million. kr from the red-green government in 2014, i.e. almost a five-fold from 2005. Unfortunately, there was something destructive about the changes in government in 2015 that the case rapporteur would rather not talk about. We then got a government that instead of continuing to bet, began to view the obligations towards cultural memory protection as a disability. The very frightful example of this is when Tine Sundtoft, as Minister of Culture, chose to finance a campaign to protect the fire of cultural memories by cutting off the Riksantikvaren grant items in many other fields, such as archaeology, national technical-industrial facilities and world heritage. Hopelessly! Some glamour in recent years has been absolute, such as that the Left and Christian People's Party in the United Kingdom has provided for more increases in some cultural memory items in budgetary settlements, but this important field of my frustration has remained more or less at rest on the ground. Not least now, the government has been trying to get rid of the national 2020 targets for years because they do not reach them. The size of the opposition, including the Christian People's Party and the Left, responded to this in 2017 – not by ironing out the targets, but rather by ordering a new cultural memory message. I long hoped that the Cultural Memory Party Left moved into the Ministry of Climate and Environment would mean a difference, but I must say that the message that was finally presented was greatly disappointed. We only received a message that is strangely pale and unimaginable, with a kind of proposal for national targets that is so general – I would almost say generic – that they could have been used in any field of action. ‘Eligibility, sustainability and diversity’ — who is not for it? And what do they mean in practice? Unfortunately, the government parties here in the house, instead of contributing to greater clarity in it, have chosen during the treatment to go in the perimeter around a government council that this time has strictly not had much to report – except that the 2020 targets are not being achieved. The government's parties try to "a Spanish one" and say that there was something wrong with the goals themselves, but this is at best a robbery story. The goals were good enough, they, but they demanded appropriations that the government did not want to deliver. So the ambiguity increases: the government doesn't tell us how to follow up the new airy targets in concrete terms, or how to measure progress – to frustration for the field. Here today’s message is clearly different from the messages we received in 2005 and 2013, where a specific scheme was actually presented to the Stortinget. I am therefore very pleased that the Stortinget today is showing initiative in addition to the message and placing the course more clearly in two fields that are important for cultural memory protection. Firstly, the opposition is a majority in favour of enabling Norwegian medieval churches in stone to be established by 2030, and we finally reached a cross-political agreement in the work on the treatment, namely that the government should provide a tax package for private owners of peaceful and protective cultural memories. Both recommendations could be of great importance, and I would particularly like to thank the Progress Party for having freely addressed this and thus triggered the majority. That is what makes sure that today – even with a weak starting point – can be a joyous day for cultural memory protection. I come back to other aspects of the policy here in another post, but take up the proposals of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, and the proposals of the Central Party alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3209	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3214	Taking care of the past makes us feel better about meeting the future. Norway has a rich cultural heritage with cultural memories that tell a lot about where we come from and who we are. It could be the iconic Viking ships, our industrial history, with the world heritage of Telemark, transport cultural memories, like the railways and canals, like the Halden watercourse at home in Eastfold, or the crafts and the intangible cultural heritage. Taking care of this legacy, managing it, disseminating it, and not least actively using it, teaches us a lot of valuable that we benefit from even today. Taking care of this legacy is a sustainability project. Not least, all of these different cultural memories engage thousands of people and bring great benefits to many communities around the country. That is why I would like to begin by thanking all those who work in voluntary cultural protection. Without all the tens of thousands of hours of hard work they're doing, and without the competence of the voluntary organizations in the field of cultural memory policy, we couldn't take care of anything near as much as we actually can. I wish I could give the government the same brilliance. It may not be cultural heritage, but at least it's an inheritance from the Bondevik II government to raise cultural environment policy, which the Right, Left and Christian People's Party has unfortunately not managed so well. The current objectives of cultural memory policy – the 2020 objectives – which are important objectives for the restoration and management of our cultural heritage, are breaking the government. There are important cultural memories around the country that are still unconstructed and are not used, and it is sad. With that curtain, we would need something other than the message we get today. The overall goals I think most people can join. That might also illustrate a little bit of the problem. With this message, the right-hand side goes away from large-scale, numerical and clear performance targets and across to overall goals, nice descriptions and vague strategies. We go from concrete conservation programmes to more general conservation strategies. This is not something we in the opposition just think about. No, the vast majority of the hearing bodies stressed that the government's objectives in the notification are very vague and non-committal. That is why this communication, despite good descriptions and fine, overall objectives, is a weakening of cultural memory policy. When the government is unable to follow up the specific objectives we have had up to now, it should not mean that there is something wrong with the objectives, as the representative Carl-Erik Grimstad said. No, maybe there's something wrong with the policy to follow them up. SV believes that we still need binding performance targets with deadlines for cultural memory policy to enable more cultural memories and to take care of more of our cultural heritage. That is what we are promoting today, together with other sections of the opposition. We also promote proposals to maintain and further develop concrete and clear conservation programmes. But the party supporting the government parties, the Progress Party, unfortunately ensures a majority against these proposals. That's why I had at least expected the entire committee to clearly intervene so that the Storting's involvement in cultural environment policy is not weakened. When this message is so general, the Storting will not deal with specific objectives, priorities and programmes in a well-informed case. It gets the ministry to do it afterwards. SV warns against that way of working. Therefore, we ask the government to present a separate case to the Storting on the new conservation strategies, so that it is the Storting that can make these decisions openly. But it doesn't support the right-hand side either. They are careful to ‘understand the importance of anchoring targets and areas of activity in the Stortinget’, as it says in the setting. [[...]] It could mean anything. It's a shame, because this is important. I am sure that we will have a better cultural environment policy, and that we will have more cultural memories and crafts to care for, if we discuss and deal with cultural environment policy openly in the Stortinget. It's lifting the field. Anyway, we have to keep up with it. Voluntary cultural protection organisations must be included, and we will bring forward important projects in the Grand Duchy in any case. We have a rich cultural heritage, and therefore, as we live now, we have a historic responsibility to take care of our heritage and make use of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3240	Church buildings are cultural heritage and history and are a major part of our common identity as a nation. That's why it's so important that we take care of the churches for the future. Management of a building mass of particular aesthetic and architectural value spread throughout the country is a major societal task. The often richly decorated church buildings have historically been among the most important arenas for the acquisition of visual art by the population. That is why we are pleased that the new communication on the cultural environment is concerned with managing and preserving churches and the surroundings of churches and burial sites. The conservation strategies of the new ‘Cultural Environment Communication’ contribute to seeing the whole of the cultural environment and to strengthening the work across the disciplines. This is a message that preserves, renews and improves our cultural memories. The role of the churches in Norwegian culture and history is invaluable. The churches have had a great deal to say for the development of their musical life by contributing to the education and employment of professional musicians. The hymns in the churches formed much of the basis for the emergence of the country's choir movement. The Church's artistic expression and Christianity as a premiscuous supplier into Norwegian literature and artistic expression both are and have been significant. It's helped shape us. Yes, the Christian cultural heritage has helped to shape the great vi as a nation, but also bound us together as a community globally. This historic Norwegian cultural heritage will take care of and manage the Christian People's Party for future generations. Therefore, we are pleased that the churches should be an integral part of this message, and that we should focus in particular on the oldest churches in Norway, the stone churches of the Middle Ages, which need further protection, repair and security. We are very pleased that the majority agree that the medieval churches should be included in the forthcoming conservation strategies and that the follow-up should be seen in the context of the funds from the Information Society Fund. The government has great ambitions for the stone churches. We have already provided a good financial basis for the stone churches in connection with the information society fund notification. One of the decisions was that the Storting asked the government to draw up a plan for repairing protective church buildings. The Fund shall correspond to the increased efforts of the State towards the culturally important church buildings. It's about billions of values. Such a large-scale effort must go on for many years. Specialised professional competence is required for that type of restoration measure, and there is a shortage of this type of competence. Therefore, it is difficult to set a date for completion, but the ambition is that this should be done as soon as possible. Cultural heritage concerns everyone. There is a long tradition of voluntary involvement and efforts for cultural heritage in Norway. I could not stand here on the pulpit today as a credible Christian People's Party representative without highlighting the importance of voluntary action – the very foundations of civil society. Many individuals and organisations make a great and invaluable effort to take care of the cultural environment in their neighbourhood. Many also have valuable local knowledge and historical interest. Resources and fires are essential to keep the interest in the cultural environment alive through events and word production. An important objective of the Government with this Communication is that everyone should have the opportunity to engage and take responsibility for the cultural environment in its built or city and encourage increased participation and participation in the management of the cultural environment. It shall include, inter alia: make use of the competences of voluntary organisations and facilitate the sharing and coordination of data. Better framework conditions for owners and administrators of the cultural environment are also important. Managing responsibility is a central value for the Christian People's Party, and this message plans for future generations to benefit from nature, the environment and our cultural memories. At the same time, we are part of a larger world, which means that we have to think beyond Norway when we adopt policies, especially in relation to climate and the environment. The world's poor suffers from our over-consumption. It is both unfair and slightly forward-looking. Sustainable development means meeting the needs of people worldwide without destroying the opportunities for future generations to meet their needs. Therefore, a key objective of the Communication is to contribute the cultural environment to sustainable development through comprehensive societal planning. In the follow-up to the message, it shall include, inter alia: indicators measuring the contribution of the cultural environment to the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals are developed. We in the Christian People's Party are very pleased about that. This message embraces our Christian cultural heritage and has sustainability, commitment and diversity as bearer values. This promises good for the future Culture Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3263	Exposure, resilience and scarcity are fundamental to cultural environmental policy, and the three concepts are also at the heart of the new national objectives that we propose. With the new objectives, the government signals that the management of the cultural environment should be measured by its contribution to society. We are still working to preserve cultural memory and the cultural environment. The work on reducing loss and damage should also be carried on, but it should be clearer why we want to keep, why we want to document, and why we want to put in place. All shall have an opportunity to engage and take responsibility for the cultural environment. It may seem obvious, but the cultural environment should be relevant to everyone. That's why we need to secure commitment and participation also for future generations. The cultural environment is a common good and a common responsibility. The government wants to improve the framework conditions, so that everyone can take part in that responsibility. The cultural environment shall contribute to sustainable development through community development. At all times, people have been keeping pace, repairing and adapting buildings and hijackers to make new use in a new era. When we give new life to objects, to buildings or landscapes, we create cultural heritage. Cultural heritage is valuable to society because it contributes to both environmental resilience, social resilience and economic resilience. The cultural environment is a particularly important contributor to social resilience by providing a basis for identity, for additions, for quality of life and for public health. I am pleased that the Committee points out that the cultural environment is important for cultural tourism and that it provides a basis for life in many communities. I totally agree with that. The most climate friendly house is what is already built. This has been confirmed in several studies. The government will see closer to the greenhouse gas accounting that fives the entire life cycle of the building. It is also important to adapt current legislation when it concerns re-use and transformation requirements. We don't reach our climate targets by tearing. A lack of a cultural environment shall serve as a basis for knowledge, experience and use. This objective furthers the essence of the former strategic goal of cultural memory policy. Its duration shall reflect a cultural, social and geographical gap from different periods of time and shall contribute to documenting and understanding historical developments. In order to take care of and manage this deficiency, the government will among other things. to draw up a proposal for a new cultural environment law. Many of the things that the committee has been busy about will naturally be included in such legal work. Another important effort will be to develop conservation strategies. The conservation strategies shall help to address a deficiency by structuring, coordinating and organising the conservation work and looking at all instruments in the context. The conservation strategies shall be independent of the type of cultural environment and of the time period. Whenever a majority in the Committee endorses the conservation strategies, while highlighting one specific category of cultural memory and assuming that one of the new conservation strategies is about churches, I will admit that it presents a small challenge, but I will seek, in consultation with the National Council of the Ministry of Children and Family, responsible for the Church Area, to find a constructive way to meet the Storting. In any case, I am pleased that the majority in the Committee joins the three national objectives. In the follow-up to this message the objectives of the message are to be concreteised, inter alia. through the development of indicators and new conservation strategies. All of this is coming. Human beings have great influence on nature, but nature also lays many leaderships for our choices and our decisions. The environment is not a taboo race where we start over each time we do something. We have to take care of what's done before us all the time. The cultural environment fives the whole story, at good and at bad. It testifies to both the wise and the wise choices that have been made. The cultural environment can give an experience of righting in a community and a sense of righting together across time and space, but it can also give new perspectives through wonder and reflection. The historical tracks are the basis for understanding our time and are thus part of the solution to the societal challenges of our time. With the new objectives of the cultural environment policy, the cultural environment management must be measured by how it contributes to society, and I am pleased about that. I am also pleased that the Storting seems to join those thoughts in the main.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3288	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3293	The Council of State was involved in the conservation strategies in his speech and said that he would find a solution to the church area with another department. This is the case with many of these conservation strategies. You have to work with a lot of departments. It is necessary to cooperate with the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, and not least with the Ministry of Culture, which has cultural memory policy on objects and museum policy. So we trust that to be good. My question is why the Council of State does not want these conservation programmes to be anchored in Stortinget, and why he has not prepared them in connection with the submission to the Stortinget. After all, the fact that we have to assess and see, etc., should have been a natural consequence of strong criticism that these programmes have not been properly followed up. Then you should say that we're going to complete these, and then we're going to set that and that goal within then and then. It would be a more efficient way to get money at the government conference, and it would be a very good platform to get broad support in the Storting for an important field.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3300	I would like to thank the representative for the good advice on how to get money at the government conference, but I can assure the representative that both my department and I are working to ensure that we will have a good framework for the cultural environment work in the future, as this government has strengthened and increased the rewards for both the Riksantikvaren and the Cultural Memory Fund in recent years. That's the basic plan of the work we're going to do. I can understand the question that is being asked, but it is simply because it is important for the government that we now anchor the objectives of cultural environment policy. How are we going to work on this in the future? What's important for the Storing? Why should we do the job we do? Then conservation programmes that are indebted will be allowed to go out. I don't think it's necessarily a good idea that everyone is being phased out at the same time, it's a little dependent on how they lie in the loop, and then we're going to have different strategies in place. Of course, it is a natural part of the strategies that a person has clear objectives and clear indicators, as well as the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3309	I thank you for your answer. What is serious when we do not achieve these objectives in the field of cultural memory protection is that the things that are lost are lost forever. One of the reasons why we have to give well-intentioned advice on budget implementation is that the pastors in this department have obviously not had the advice, because we are delayed in almost all areas. The thing is, if we're delayed with the intercity train around Oslo, well, there'll be a few years later. If there's a government quarter for ten years, and we haven't yet got Picasso torn on the Y block, well, you might be able to get torn up next year. But if you lose a cultural memory, it's not money that can fix it next year, it's gone forever. That's why we have to make sure that we're leading the way and keeping the level of funding up, and thus ensuring that we don't lose these cultural memories. My specific question is this: how will the Minister ensure that this is implemented, and how will he also ensure that the regions, which have gained an important role in cultural environment policy, are fully financed by the new tasks assigned there?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3318	To start with, it's an important part of the regional reform that our new counties now have a greater responsibility in our cultural environment policy. That's what I think is good. It's good that we move down tasks to those that are closest, and I think that here its definitely regions are closer to seeing different values, so they'll now become the first instance in most of the things that have to do with the cultural environment. That's good. Then, of course, we're going to follow carefully on the financing ahead and make sure that this is done in a good way. Neither I, my predecessors, nor the Stortinge have had low ambitions when it comes to licenses, on the contrary. Since 2014, the budget for the Riksantikvaren has increased by 23 p.m. and the budget for the Kulturmärefondet has increased by 98 p.m. It's a kind of funding that's important to get the job done. I would also like to stress that he is being done. It's not like you're miles away from reaching different goals, on the contrary. The stave church program has been completed, 11 of the 15 facilities of the technical and industrial cultural memory conservation programme are in place, 420 out of 450 selected archaeological cultural memories have been maintained regularly, and I could have continued. These money will be useful. We've been working on targets. Many are now being put in a good condition, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3327	The Progress Party is concerned with the balance between different societal considerations, including the preservation of things of cultural value. My question to the Council of State is whether he sees an improvement potential in how we take care of both construction projects and private landowners in cases where things of cultural value on private property are being found.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3334	When important cultural environmental findings are made on property, the legislation varies slightly when it relates to who is going to finance the work of caring for it. I assume that's what the representative is looking for. In this case, it will typically be that at least economic operators will have a responsibility to finance the work being done, in line with the forureinar payer principle, which underpins all policy in my department, including in the cultural environment policy. At the same time, it is true that if this is a case of private owners such as shall extend a garage or something like that, it is not necessarily the way it works. You have to see what's the purpose here, and who we're talking about. I think it's good that one builds on the principles we have, and then there's some area where we might have an improvement potential. I see that the committee is busy, among other things. in agriculture, and we shall continue to work on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3341	As we understand, the Council of State is well aware that the Storting is today proposing to adopt a measure that the stone churches from the Middle Ages will be able to do so by 2030. We will also decide that the government should present a case on tax incentives in the field of cultural memory protection. Both decisions require the promotion of these matters as part of the system of conservation strategies that the government itself has requested. Now the Council of State says he'll talk to the Minister of the Church about the first decision. I would therefore like to hear from the Council of State in what time perspective he sees that this work may be in place. So I also wonder if the Council of State thinks it is super important that the Left stands outside the proposal to restore the medieval stone churches, since his party leader in ReAvisa said it was on her wish list in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3348	Like my party leader, I'm very busy putting stone churches in place. I think it's important. I assume that the reason why the government party is not in that comment and in the proposal is that it is a little strange that one has a broad majority on the Stortinget and in the committee that joins the different goals we are going to have, and that we are going to work on conservation strategies that are going to be five over time and categories – but then one should choose one category and say that the strategy should be about it. It's a little strange, but it's obviously the Storting Sovereign to ask for it. We're going to follow that up. When it comes to the time perspective – as I was in response to the representative Giske – it is enough that part of these conservation programmes must be allowed to go for a little different time, I believe. But we're also going to put together the different conservation strategies continuously. I think we can aim to put in place a conservation strategy already next year. So let's think about how we can deal with the church question in that work. But I'm going to have a good dialogue with my fellow member of state council of Ropstad about that, and then the Stortinget will be informed about it in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3356	One of the important cultural memories for 2020 that this government does not reach is that a representative sample of vessels would have a normal level of maintenance by 2020. It's a shame, because Norwegian coastal and maritime history is a bearer in our cultural heritage. We are a coastal nation, and we are a people who have still lived both by the sea and by the sea. To this end, several consultation bodies are asking for a national ship protection plan, with clear objectives and measures, which are being developed precisely together with the voluntary protection of vessels. Is this something that the Council of State will consider doing in the work on the notified conservation strategies and the follow-up to this communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3361	I am well aware of the challenges of ship protection and not least the commitment that is there. It is definitely an area of cultural memory policy where a large voluntary effort is being undertaken. There is a great deal of commitment across the country – even inland. Our vessels are an important part of the cultural environment that one has to take care of in the future. So it's probably the challenge, as I see her, that yes, there's a lot of money going on for this, but the queue is only so long. There are a lot of people who want to work with ship protection, and honor them for it. Then we almost have to come back to the annual budgets how the framework for it will be in the future. But that there is a great desire for more money – and sometimes a great need for more – there is no doubt about it. I share the commitment of the representative to strengthen ship protection in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3368	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3375	‘The church it is an old house’, it is called in a hymn, and one could add: with a large maintenance seat. Even I come from a state with many stone churches from the Middle Ages. For us in Eastfold, it is very gratifying that today the great majority of people are adopting a goal of enabling these churches to celebrate the 1 000th anniversary of the Battle of Stiklestad, the very breakthrough of Christianity on Norwegian soil, but today also our cultural heritage and common identity. But it is more confusing that the Christian People's Party has chosen to stand on the outside of the majority who are making this decision today. Before the Christian People's Party entered the government and was just a supporting party in the Storting, the Christian People's Party dared to be part of ambitions when it came to church maintenance. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party promoted together the proposal that ordered great efforts to increase the maintenance of our churches. We contributed together to a solution related to the Information Society's fund, which provides a financial basis for a genuine state contribution to church maintenance, which has been for too long the headache of municipal politicians alone, and which the municipalities have known has tight budgets. I choose to interpret this as a purely tactical operation on the part of the Christian People's Party, but I hope that the party in government will contribute to the proper follow-up of the decision today. Because even with the decision that the Stortinget is going to take today, there will be a question of how this fissure layer to take care of our medieval churches in stone will look like. In the past, we have been together with the Christian People's Party to recommend the spice layer model – the municipalities must join in, but the state should contribute. The question is how we trigger the most maintenance possible for the money that the state places on the table. Fortunately, we already have a model within cultural memory protection that shows how this can be done, and it is the very successful Cultural Memory Fund that holds at Røros. It is precisely based on the fact that the state spends money on the table for restoration, assuming that it triggers private efforts either in the form of money or self-help. That model is incredibly successful, and to those who doubt it, I recommend following the Culture Memory Fund on Facebook, where almost every day images of new, great projects that have been solved using such fissures. In this case too, I believe that this model can be used, but there are the municipalities that must be the other party to the fissure layer, and municipal funds, but perhaps also private ones, have to be counted as self-contributions in the restoration projects. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have previously agreed to go in for a church cultural memory fund as a framework for fissure layers for maintenance between state and municipality, and I believe the time has come to bring that idea forward. The government today gets marshes from Stortinget, and I expect today's decision to be followed up in a proper way. It is ten years until 2030 – then we will mark the battle at Stiklestad – and with the need for restoration the medieval churches have, it is time and road.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3394	The President would like to point out that Christianity's celebration on Norwegian soil was probably not at the Battle of Stiklestad, it was probably at Moster a little earlier, in Bømlo, Sunnhordland [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3399	It's been exciting to get involved in the big news New objectives in the cultural environment policy, which I had great expectations of before I went to maternity leave. Being a mother may do something about the way you look at heritage and culture, and this message forces us to look at cultural heritage with new eyes and use new concepts. The concept of cultural environment covers the concepts of cultural memories, the cultural environment and the landscape, and we are given a cultural environment management and a cultural environment policy. It is the responsibility of the politicians and the duty of the Biggest to point out a direction and a priority. Today, we are forced to look at the practices of new eyes – new ways of thinking about and experiencing the cultural environment – and we are going to think about sustainability in several ways: environmental sustainability, social sustainability and economic sustainability. We are also forward-looking. This message is new and addresses issues that we may not fully know the answer to, but we are adopting a conservation strategy that will help us on the way. An important theme already mentioned is national minorities, including women. The Communication focuses on how cultural environments can contribute to better societal development, and notes that the government will coordinate and clarify state efforts to include cultural environments in overall societal planning. This should be done by underpinning the evaluation of the Planning and Building Act, EVAPLAN, to consider the relationship between the Planning and Building Act and sectoral laws such as cultural memory legislation. The right considers that the objective of this work must be the contribution of cultural environments to the engagement and creation of living societies. In this context and in this work, it is important to stress that municipalities are provided with cultural memory plans and that the plans can be incorporated into the area area of the municipalities. As you can see on Figure 9.11 on page 65, many municipalities have got or started planning work, and the Riksantikvaren has paid one-off grants of NOK 100 000 as an economic incentive to get more people to start with cultural memory plans. Cultural memory plans shall be politically anchored in the municipality and should be experienced as relevant to the inhabitants, so that the cultural environment can thus be committed to people. It is also one of the main objectives of the Communication that everyone should have the opportunity to engage and take responsibility for the cultural environment. As the representatives can see on page 58 of the notification, the annual business day creates a high level of engagement in Gåradak in Porsanger, and the business days are a social event involving the inhabitants of the building. The cultural heritage’s potential for social sustainability lies mainly in the importance of cultural heritage for identity, belonging, quality of life and health for all. How cities, neighbourhoods and places develop means a lot to people's health, and inspiring environments can create more physical and social activity. Cultural environments have a lot to do in our society if we use them properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3414	Someone might think that it was the state and the Riksantik product that started the Norwegian cultural memory protection, but it's not like that. The start of the Norwegian cultural memory protection is linked to the foundation of the Ancient Memory Association on 16 December 1844, and throughout the 1800s, the association stood alone to preserve the Norwegian cultural heritage. The Riksantikvar was originally a secretarial position in the Early Memory Association, which only became a public official in 1913 and in recent times a directorate. The point of mentioning this is that volunteering in many ways is the very backbone of cultural memory protection, and we are totally dependent on private efforts to preserve our cultural heritage. We depend on all the 230,000 members registered in the 24 organisations that make up the Cultural Protection Association. Only some of these people get basic support from the state today. The centre party believes that everyone should have it and therefore proposes it today. Unfortunately, only SV has supported us in this in the committee. My main concern here today is to point out first and foremost how dependent the state is on the fact that the private owners of cultural memories, bunkhouses, staffs, mansions, boat nests and seats take care of the common cultural heritage. It is a great responsibility to own a peaceful or protective cultural memory, but unfortunately the state has for too long left this bill to the owners, who may not be able to afford it. Much has happened in recent years, but the state has solely based its handshake on grants from the Cultural Memory Fund or the Riksantikvar. This applies to private owners throughout the country, but I mention that the major acts in this context are in Uppland and Telemark. There are many private owners who have a bad conscience. This is no wise strategy. It is a strategy that suggests that the cultural heritage should lapse and that, at regular and uneven intervals — when the grants come — a shipper’s roof should be taken when major restoration is needed. This is saving yourself to finding. The pacified owners have long argued – and I say that the pacified owners have long argued – that they should be supported by the State through tax incentives that stimulate smooth, good maintenance, so that cultural memories do not lapse and the shippers become more redundant. They say that tax incentives are more stimulating and predictable from year to year. Such schemes will have a major impact on the motivation and attitudes of owners to take care of cultural memories. I was delighted to see that an overall committee asks the government to make proposals on tax incentives, and I am very excited about what that means in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3429	Resilience is an important element of this message, and I would like to address this, because the government has set itself the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 50-55 pst in 2030. compared to the reference year 1990. In the previous case, we discussed how we could achieve these measurements. The construction industry must also contribute to this image. This means that in order to meet the ambitions of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, a large part of our building mass today needs to be refurbished and upgraded. We don't get to the goal if we're based on demolition and new buildings. Studies have been carried out to show that upgrading and refurbishment of the building stock are good environmental measures. It may take 50 years for graphs to cross each other to see if a new building is renovating from a climate perspective. The circular thinking here is also important, and we must facilitate flexibility and conversion and, where appropriate, recycling of materials and equipment for new constructions. I'm recording that there are a lot of exciting projects going on here. The transition from a linear to a circular economy is part of the solution for building industry to become more resilient. The public that owns must go here and be a driver to put such strategies on the agenda of its building mass. I am pleased that the Storing Communication addresses such objectives, and assume that the municipal and county sectors also follow this in a good way. For we have today, and we are building today, shall become cultural memory tomorrow. The use, re-use, re-use and transformation can contribute to the preservation of cultural historical values and to the vitalisation of the cultural environment. I look forward to and feel confident that these thoughts are also included in the circular economy strategy that is currently being developed in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3440	Exposure, sustainability and diversity are good headlines in setting objectives for cultural environment policy. It's easy to agree. I would almost say exposure is the bearer of this work, and not just the commitment that many think about first, individuals and organisations that drive actions and projects they burn for, linked to their community and activities. Equally important is a commitment to culture by those who somehow have full or partial responsibility for this field. It's government employees, it's elected at all levels, and it's those who do activities that can have a positive or negative impact on the cultural environment. I think it is absolutely essential that the national goal of all being able to engage and take responsibility for the cultural environment is not only about framework conditions and grants, but also about systematic skills building in all of us about how we can and should contribute. I am pleased that the government in this message is raising its eyes and setting targets to serve as the basis for the strategies to be developed as a result of this treatment. Both the sustainability target and the diversity target are solid pillars on which to build strategies. In my opinion, the national work on this field has for too long been characterised by enthusiasm for some themes and individual projects. It is therefore good that the government now takes the initiative for broader cooperation in administration, which can look at the whole. Then I have to comment on one of the minority proposals, and it's about the Riksrevision order. When the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV in plenary promote a proposal to ask the National Audit Board to evaluate the follow-up to the Storing Communication on the national objectives of cultural memory protection with a view to clarifying why the objectives have not been achieved, they make use of a formal option, but it is nevertheless a form that has been and should be very rare. The free position of the National Audit Office to choose audit themes is important for confidence in their work and their independence, and the ability of the Grand Duchy to instruct them should therefore be used only in exceptional and very special cases. In addition, there are several possibilities for both dialogue and external concerns about what the Riksrevision might be aware of. In addition, I note that the same parties in their comments have already carried out both the evaluation and given the reason why the objectives have not been achieved, but without commenting on the challenges that the Riksrevision has pointed out from the beginning of the work, as these parties themselves put in government. This is a work and cooperation that requires thorough work and clear priorities in the choice of strategies and economic frameworks. It's right in government ready to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3453	I followed the cultural memory field pretty closely in the last growing-up period when I was on the Energy and Environment Committee, and a lot of the job was to point out how the government decided to fail the 2020 objectives for cultural memory protection year after year. Now the government has been sitting for almost eight years. I think it's a little expensive that the government parties are still trying to shift responsibility for their own emergency to the red-green government, which almost doubled the Riksantikvaren budgets and fivefold it for the Cultural Memory Fund at Røros. There is a close link between the level of appropriations and the possibility of achieving a concrete objective of rehabilitating buildings. If the money is not granted, the restoration will not happen either – as simple as it is. Each year, the Central Party has asked the government how much money is needed to achieve the 2020 targets, and has been increasing funding of between 100 and 150 million since 2014. kr in our alternative budget every year. But the bulk of the population has voted down our appropriations. At the same time, they have worked around with tax havens for those who have a lot from before, and used the oil money in a way that no previous government has done before them. Just a fraction of the 25 billion. kr as the government has spent on tax relief, could save the 2020 targets – as simple as that. The centre party has long fought for the medieval churches and other church maintenance. Today, there is a majority for an important proposal. That's very good. I am also very pleased that we have gathered the red-green parties on a stepping-up plan for the Cultural Memory Fund at Røros. It is also important that the red-green parties stand together to criticise the obvious unfairness of the fact that the state has transferred significant responsibilities to the county cultural memory departments without sending money at the same time. With regard to the Viking heritage on the World Heritage List, I expect the government to come back to the Stortinget and explain the status of the multinational serial nomination and Norway's work on it. It must be because of a mere glitch that it is not mentioned in the message. I would like to end by saying that I think it is strange that the Senter party has remained standing alone to propose that the farmers cover their expenses for archaeological excavations when the measure is justified by the normal expansion and development of the farm. In fact, here I find that several parties are now taking a step back compared to what they've done before, and I don't quite understand why it's happened. In the further work, it's the government that's played out, and we'll see what it comes with. There are many nice words here today, but the possibility is always present that a new government can deliver when the one we have, now struggles to get rid of these things in the cultural memory field.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3468	The representative, Sem-Jacobsen, is calling for a more concrete approach to the government's objectives. I'll try to do that. Last Saturday, together with the Minister of Culture, I was able to walk through parts of what we consider to be one of the most important things we have to offer the international community of Norwegian cultural memories, namely the Viking heritage. The program included a visit to the Borrehauene and Midgard Viking Centre along with a walk across the Castle Mountain in Tønsberg, where it was briefed on the Borgzentrum project. The castle in Tønsberg is, as you know, the most extensive medieval memory in the Nordic region. The tour went on through the city and along the bridge, to what is called Vikingodden, the place where the Saga Oseberg and Klåstad ships are recreated with original craftsmanship techniques. The Minister of Culture’s visit is an invitation to illustrate the conservation strategies on which this Communication is based. ‘Everyone shall have the opportunity to engage and take responsibility for the cultural environment’, as stated in the Communication. There is hardly a school student in the city and countless people who come from outside, who have not in mind recreated the urban environment in the city. The school life in Westfold has a huge treasure chest to draw from as a source of inspiration to gain an understanding of the heritage of our culture. The Viking heritage is to the most extent living and engaging in this area of our country. We're going to have more of this. That's the government's policy. At the top of the Castle Mountain you can see the city surrounded by two of the country's main wetlands. Not many years ago, one of them was threatened by the extender, but was rescued after hard work. Today, the Ilene and Presterødkilen have the status of protection areas under the Ramsar Convention. They belong to the pride of the city, both visually and historically, and are considerations to which urban planning must relate, as set out in the Communication. We're going to have more of this. That's the government's policy. Summer 2020 is probably the biggest museum summer we've had in a long time. The booking lists are already long. It has been a short time since the covid-19 restrictions were relaxed. Nordics will increasingly seek experiences and knowledge in their holidays. Tønsberg and Vestfold are well located in this way – in line with the target area three in the notification. We're going to have more of this. That's the government's policy. It would be natural to get this legacy into UNESCO's world heritage list. When that has not happened, it is because Norway is currently a member of the World Heritage Committee for the period 2017-2021, and it is very difficult for us to promote our own applications during this period. It's that simple. A request decision to resume cooperation with other countries thus becomes a directly misleading way of presenting this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3490	The Culture Environment Communication tells the story of government efforts, and significant allocations have been made in different areas to strengthen different parts of Culture Norway. I must admit that I am particularly excited about the chapter on diversity, thinking that in Norway there are traces of people's lives and work over a 11,000-year period. These tracks tell us about unique cultural traditions and historical events. At a time when opinion breaks are big and different cultures encounter in a digitally compressed world, culture is still expressions that can be both collapsing and divisive. There are few other arenas that gather us together as concerts and sports events do. Now under covid-19, many cultural institutions have suffered under the restrictions. Everyone has had to deal with everything digital platforms have been able to offer us. Through media channels, we have followed events that have focused awareness of racism and discrimination in the world and at home. After the markings against discrimination and racism in support of the victims, there has been a debate on sculptures. Some will remove sculptures, while others will nuance with an informative poster. Art and culture are shaped by their time, but can challenge us people who live in a different time. Art and culture can be preserved, and it can be wiped out, but removing history in my opinion is not the solution. For the Left as a knowledge party, the answer to discrimination and racism is precisely knowledge and insight. We have to learn rather than tear. Culture is part of defining us, so fortunately it's not static. It changes with new generations and people on the move. But to learn from the past, we must know it and keep it in order not to forget it. The Government has highlighted in the Communication that diversity of the cultural environment should be taken into account as a basis for knowledge, experience and use. The strongest protection a cultural memory has is not a decision, but a commitment – people who love cultural memories and take care of them. They are individuals and non-governmental organisations. Therefore, knowledge of why we have cultural memories, and of how we best take care of them, is absolutely central and is a prerequisite for preserving engagement in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3503	President, it might be tempting on the occasion of your last line to say that the Christianization of Norway was hardly completed before Harald Hardraade herjet and burned on the Upland in 1050, but I'll leave it. I drew myself to say a little bit about archaeology in the setting. In Eastfold it was published in October 2018 that a new Viking ship had been found in the ground at Jellestadhaugen. We in Eastfold are both proud of that and interested in it. It is the second largest tomb in Norway, just crossed by the gigantic Raknehaugen in Rome, the largest in Northern Europe. The ship at Jellestad is now to be excavated, and there are great expectations of what found is going to give us of new knowledge, and what we want to find. It is uncertain how much is left of the ship. This is a major event, not only for us in Norway, but also internationally. The media coverage has also shown it. This creates big headlines. The Viking Age is in a global context one of Norway’s and the Nordic countries’ most important brands, although there is no reason to be equally proud of everything. Now that the government has finally started working on the development of a new Viking Ship Museum on Bygdøy, there is also hope that the Norwegian State will gradually provide these findings with the communication – and the conditions for conservation – that the Viking ships deserve. I see today that it seems a little unclear whether the government is still working to nominate these ship's tombs from Viking times to World Heritage. I'm not sure why it's been like that, maybe it has something to do with the government not mentioning either Viking times or world heritage nominations in the message. Anyway, on behalf of the Center Party, I would like to say to the government and the Council of State that if they are still working to get the ship's finds from Viking times into the world heritage list, along with the Kvernstein breaches in Hyllestad, they have the full support of the Center Party. It is a great advantage to be able to cooperate with other countries in the Nordic region, around the Baltic Sea and in the North Atlantic. Norrøn expansion stretched far in the Viking Age and laid the foundations for multicultural contact between people from the North and large parts of the known world – not only on the other side of the Baltic Sea but far down the Russian rivers to the Black Sea and Constantinople, on to the Muslim world, not only to the British Isles and Normandy but westwards to Iceland, Greenland and America. If the Viking Age is to be included in the World Heritage List, the effort should reflect that the Viking Age was to the greatest extent international. Of course, archaeology involves more than Viking time. I think the time has come to look at this field again and in a completely different way than the message adds up. Should we be more likely to facilitate research excavations in Norway? Should we give post-reformer archaeology a greater place when it's going to be dug, or should we just concentrate on the cultural laws that are from before 1537? And how are we going to get away from the fact that people hesitate to report findings? This is important to discuss. We need people to take it seriously and report when they do find out, and the state has to take its share of the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3518	The president may add that the senior chairman of the Central Party in Ullenswang said that the Christian kings were also in Hardanger, but they crossed over with a harelab. On the west side of the fjord they were not ashore at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3523	The theme that has helped create the most debate in the media since the setting was issued has been about the stone churches. Here the opposition suggests that all medieval stone churches should have normal maintenance levels within the 1000th anniversary of the Battle of Stiklestad in 2030. The debate in the wake of this proposal is probably a little out of context. A joint committee writes that we are engaged in the administration of churches, and that they should be an integral part of the government's further work in extending the notification. We also agree to point out that the stone churches need additional protection, repair and protective work, and not least that the medieval churches must be included in one of the forthcoming conservation strategies and that the follow-up should be seen in conjunction with the funds of the Information Society Fund. Here, not least the Church itself and the trade unions should also have a word in the team. A blank mandate, which is what the opposition gives to the stone churches today, will be able to hit other church buildings, not least because competence is a limited factor. But this selects the opposition to ignore. When the Storting dealt with the communication of the Information Society's fund, a condition was that the values of the fund of which the State becomes the owner should correspond to the increased efforts of the State towards the cultural-historically important church buildings. These are billions of values and will mean a huge uplift by the state. So here, I think the will for economic recovery is pretty similar to that in this room. I'm glad we got the Committee on Cultural Tourism to focus on both intangible and material culture. As important as the buildings on a sheltered farm, it is for those who run the farm to be able to sell experiences, farm food and drink to tourists and others. It is also important to highlight the importance of playing on a team with the strategy ‘The food chain Norway 2030’. We have all the prerequisites for promoting short-range food, clean food and food as culture and nutrition. The chef is here an important cultural carrier. It will be important to raise the attractiveness of this profession in the coming years. World-leading Norwegian chefs and good results in international championships show the importance of Norwegian food, Norwegian food competence and food tradition. The position of these cooks must be valued in order to increase the recruitment of the profession and to stimulate the exercise of Norwegian historical food competence, from the farmer to the guest. Then we can contribute in countless ways to the preservation and promotion of an important part of our cultural history.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3536	One of the most important measures taken by the government, after all, in this communication, is to anchor cultural memory protection in environmental protection and climate change. As we write in the setting, of course, there is no disagreement that there are many good environmental and climate effects of good cultural memory protection. But let's be honest: Urne's wand church had to be taken care of, regardless of whether the church building had had a good climate account or not. In relation to climate and environment, cultural memory protection has about the same status as our transport system. Everyone is concerned about the climate effect, but the field is not under the Ministry of Climate and Environment for that reason. It is, of course, because the transport system is primarily about feasibility, just as cultural memory protection is about managing our cultural memories. That's why I'm going to promise that the Center Party has a different strategic thinking than the government on these issues. We believe that it is natural to see the entire cultural heritage sector in one whole – we need to see the Riksantikvaren, the Cultural Memory Fund, the Cultural History Museums and all those who work with material and intangible cultural heritage in the context. There is a natural link between building protectors, shipguards, history layers and cultural history museums – just to name a few – because everyone is working on a cultural historical basis. Unfortunately, today the first three groups I mention are going to fight about the attention of CO 2 emissions and the conservation of Norwegian salmon strains, in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, while the last two sort under the Ministry of Culture and work under completely different conditions. There is a strange model Norway has in this field, and it differs from what we see in most other European countries, where cultural memory protection is part of cultural policy and not environmental policy – just look at Sweden and Denmark. As long as the Planning Department was in the Department of Climate and Environment, I could even understand the model; cultural memory protection is working hard on planning things. But then the responsibility was transferred out of the Ministry of Climate and Environment and into the Ministry of Municipal Affairs. Thus, the last good argument for cultural memory policy to lie in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, in my view, as the money for cultural memory protection also disappeared when responsibility was transferred to the states. There's a lot of talk about synergies in our days, and a lot of this talk is nonsense. But it's almost as I'd like to invite the government parties to nevertheless launch a new reform for once, just to pick up the gains that lie in the cultural memory field unsolved, and that reform was to be about linking the two cultural heritage sectors in Norway closer together, bringing together the cultural memory protection and museums in one department, adding the volunteer organisations working with physical or material cultural heritage, and those working with intangible cultural heritage, in one place and treating them equally. It is unfair that the state provides operating support to some of the cultural organisations, while others receive little or nothing. There are guaranteed gains to be gained from stimulating the cultural-historical movement on a broad front, precisely because the cultural-historical movement and the cultural-historical institutions, by their very nature, constitute a whole – a very important whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3554	It is very good that the parties on the Storting are concerned with preserving and restoring the stone churches from the Middle Ages. The Christian People's Party welcomes this commitment. In the new communication on the cultural environment, we are thinking a whole new way of understanding cultural memories. Instead of goals, we talk about conservation strategies, but it may seem that the Centre Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Workers' Party have not fully brought it. After all, it is not the case that the stone churches are automatically saved with a view to ensuring that all stone churches from the Middle Ages should have normal maintenance levels by the 1000th anniversary of the Battle of Stiklestad in 2030. I am a little surprised that the Centre Party is driving and calling for goals, as a few years ago they were in favour of a proposal that we should not have concrete objectives in the communication on the cultural environment. So in the eagerness to overwhelm the government in the message, the Center Party is now approaching itself. The whole point of these conservation strategies is that you want to see the whole of the cultural environment, not just individual areas. Such a large effort has to be made over many years, because specialised expertise is required for this type of restoration action, and there is a shortage of such competence. It is therefore difficult to set a date for completion. Another challenge is that the most needed churches may be at risk of not being prioritised, because funds and competences are tied up with the churches of the Middle Ages. It also violates the principle set out in the Communication on the Fund of the Information Society, namely that it should be the state and the value of the protection of the individual church building that should be decisive for the priorities, not the category to which the building belongs. The Central Party has said that they are very disappointed that the Left and Christian People’s Party does not support the opposition’s proposal. On the other hand, we are proud to sit in a government that actually implements what we have agreed on, namely to wait for the national targets to be drawn up after this enlargement message has been finalised. The government has repeatedly shown that they prioritise the stone churches, and they will still do so. It's interesting that the Senter party has only invested five million. kr to the medieval churches in their alternative budget, while we have allocated 20 million. kr. in the revised National Budget for 2019 for the Middle Ages. The budget of the Ministry of Children and Family for the current year is 20 million. kr to protected churches. Furthermore, as part of the package of measures in the context of the coronary crisis, a further 52 million have been proposed. SEK for the refurbishment and protection of these churches. So we show through action that the churches are important to us, and there is a very great political will of the government parties to take care of our protective church buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3577	So far in the debate, it is time for a happy story: Cultural heritage is a social resource that needs to be used more to develop communities and as a basis for economic development – much of this is the case in this communication on the cultural environment. Not least, it is also an important policy intervention. My example is Bakkland in Trondheim. The area is not as old as the city, which may be 1 000 years old, but there was a large settlement in this suburb of Trondheim in the 1600s. Then the area was housed by many fires, as the rest of Trondheim has been raised over time, but today the district stands out – after the construction of the 1700s and 1800s – as a very well visited part of the city. Not least you also have great experiences there. The last step to get to this was that the city part became almost car-free in 2016. Before that, in the last 50 years, there has been a struggle against individual political environments to keep this part of the city safe. In the 1960s, the highway was to be built. A large majority in Trondheim city government wanted to renovate the area. It was just dirty, to use a little ugly expression, but that's what you used that time. But it was preserved by students, architects and some political firemen who said power in the middle of it. Then it took several years before you got it up to go. Today, Bakklandstorget, which turns out at Old Citybro, is more visited than the square in the middle city itself. It tells us that there are experiences and uses to make such a cultural heritage work. I really hope that there are more people who take the fight – obviously – to get to the good cultural environment policy. I'm absolutely sure that when what's in the message becomes concrete, it becomes very good, both in terms of individual objects, and in terms of many local layers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3588	The Workers' Party believes that the conservation programmes are important for the long-term preservation of our cultural memories and that the areas of particular priority still need to be anchored in the Stortinget. It must not be up to the government at all times to define what should be a specific priority, in order to facilitate our common national cultural memory effort. Instead of being clear on how to achieve the objectives that have not been achieved and add new objectives, the government chooses to phase out the programmes and replace them with new strategies that are very vague, vague and non-binding, which also emerged clearly in the hearing bodies’ feedback. It can be serious for Agder. The conservation programme for technical and industrial installations is one of these. There are 3 out of 15 plants on Agder, namely Sjølingstad Uldvarefabrik, Bredalsholmen Dokk and Farjøverversenter and Næs Jernverk. All three receive grants from the Riksantikvar through this programme. The grants are for both maintenance, maintenance and remuneration of employees. The responsibility must now be transferred from the Riksantikvarn to the county. If the conservation programme is terminated, it is essential for all three sites to continue the grant scheme. It is absolutely necessary to maintain the operation of the important cultural memory measures on Agder. Several speakers from the government parties have been up and talked about that there has never been more money. It's a statement that we hear a lot and often in this room and from the government parties. It sounds like all the appropriations are a kind of number exercise: if it's more than last year, the government seems to be satisfied. The opposition has spent more money in most budget lines than the government, except for tax cuts. This leads to the ever-increasing differences we see between people and greater differences in cultural life. What's the point, is whether there's enough money for the tasks that the state has said that cultural life should do. Let me take an example: during the Stoltenberg government, Bredalsholmen Dokk and Fårjörversenter received a three-page letter from the government. They received both assignments and appropriations. Now the number of pages has increased to six–seven pages, where the allocation is on three sides, and four–five pages are about increased reporting. It's at least using money completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3599	I agree with Mr Henriksen that this should not be a number exercise. That's exactly why the government is presenting a strategy. I have attached the terms ‘cultural memory’ and ‘cultural environment’ to our identity as a nation. In the light of a topical issue, identity policy, there may be reason to say something from this pulpit about an ongoing debate on the removal of those parts of our history that we in today's political situation may have less reason to be proud of. Some think we should remove the Holberg statue, others think we should change the name of a town in Bergen, Møhlenpris, because the origin of the name, shipowner Jørgen Thor Møhlen – who otherwise died in 1708, I just mentioned it – was involved in the slave trade. Even the statues of Winston Churchill are in poor condition. Our story is what we have, for good and for evil. Removing statues, burning books and erasing memories can be fully understandable as spontaneous and emotional markings, but we should think about more than once before we rub Aladdin's lamp of political correctness and release the spirits, for if they first come out, they may prove to be impossible to force back. Where should we put the limit on which memories should be erased? Bernt Anker, brother of Peder, goods owner at Eidsvoll -- he's found behind here -- had a dark-skinned slave in the house. His name was Soliman, and he was baptized in the castle church at Akershus. King Christian 6 had a slave in his household. He went under the name Black-Christian. Both of them are depicted in famous paintings. I'm sure they were considered a curious thing in their day. Now, are we going to remove these paintings and statues of the king? During this media debate, I have allowed myself to mention that he who bears the name of the main street of Oslo was the last to invade Norway before Hitler did. Is the king to be wiped out of Norwegian history and his statue to be demolished? Now, in itself, others have been serious about this idea. Identity policy is not a new concept. Our first broadcasting director, Olav Midttune, Left-Man, Republicans and goaltender, from the same place as this state council, went in strongly to blow up Karl Johan's statue together with other members of the Student Union Pømpäkeren. They almost succeeded – had it not been for separation in the association. Someone would light up the fuse and run off, while others would dance in playring at the Castle Square as the statue went air. So then we would have been the statue next to it. I must point out, for sure, that there has been a not insignificant shift in the Left's policy since then. Let me say, with greater seriousness, that eradicating historical memories is the opposite of diversity, knowledge, tolerance and freedom of expression. Identity policy is the opposite of Left policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3612	New objectives for cultural environment policy – it is an important issue that we have and that will lead for decades to come. It's been a long time since we had a cultural memory message in Stortinget last. It was in 2004–2005, Life with cultural memories, and with an update with a Future with a foot party. Now we need a new message, just to set the new targets in the decades to come. It is clear that the main message of this Communication is that it takes cultural memory management and puts it at the centre of societal development in the future. That's exactly why it's so important that we connect what is cultural memory protection from the past, from being about object protection and what construction needs to be done, both to be about the societal development we need to achieve the climate goals we need to achieve, and to be supportive of the planning we need to do in municipalities and in counties. What you do is you raise the threshold of when it's acceptable to tear down a building, to think about what's going on about the climate footprint it gives, and that it's not just a discussion about the cultural memory protection or the cultural memory values that are in a building. I think this is important as a support for those who are planning urban and urban development around Norwegian cities. It will also give you a different approach to rebuilding and building and making it more difficult or at least increase the threshold for demolition. Over time, this will, of course, lead to more adapted urban development in Norway. Some examples of how the state can support this work are what goes under the Murby Oslo, which we have around the country, and also the doubling of the number of selected cultural landscapes that have been implemented. But also because this is such a central part, I disagree with what the Center Party says, that we should bring cultural memory protection together with cultural policy. On the contrary, cultural memory protection and environmental policy are linked to climate and environmental policies. What we should do if we are to do something right is, in the next big time, to bring back the Planning and Building Act and the planning work back to the Ministry of Climate and Environment, just as the Storting should also bring together cultural memory protection and planning in the Energy and Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3626	I would like to thank you for a good debate and for many good input into the further work on the cultural environment. Of course, I take that with me as the responsible state council for the field. Speaking of which, I can also answer some of the things that have come out of the recording here, among other things. the representative of Elvesuen at the end of his statement. Obviously, the way the government organizes its work is not for the Storting to decide, for good reasons. Neither is it for me; it is for the Prime Minister. But when that is said, I would like to point out that this big message shows well how important and central it is to see cultural and environmental policies in context. There is no strange phenomenon. On the contrary, it is also important for UNESCO to do so. It is an important part of the World Heritage Convention that one sees the cultural environment and the natural environment in context. It is also becoming increasingly important in the EU's work on cultural environment policy. I also believe that it will be more important in the future, including: for the reasons given by the representative Elvesuen at the end of his statement. But when that is said, it is obviously up to the Prime Minister how one wants to organize the work of the government. Then there are also other concrete recordings. I thought I'd take one of them. It was probably the representative of Myhrvold who was concerned about whether the government would take the Viking heritage seriously. I can assure you. One of the ways that a person can do so is: See that this government is now going to clean up and build up the Viking Ship Museum. It's high time. You can see that this government is now digging up a Viking ship from a tomb for the first time in 100 years, the Jellestadskipet. Then the representative called for a briefing on the specific application to the World Heritage Committee on the Viking heritage, and that one should be briefed on it. That's Stortinget already informed about. In a letter from 2018, the Ministry simply wrote that the parties behind the series nomination, Denmark, Germany, Iceland, Latvia and Norway, have been invited to come back with an improved nomination at a later date – i.e. after the World Heritage Committee announced it in 2015. Since then, both Germany, Denmark and Latvia each have gone further with their territory and nominations. This complicates the image a little bit. But when that is said, it is nevertheless important to point out, as the representative Grimstad was in, that during this period, between 2017 and 2021, Norway as a member of the World Committee. That means we can't or should not produce own nominations. In this context, I would also like to point out that some of the things that are important to us there and to the international, which are very few in the world, are that there should be professional assessments that underlie nominations to the world heritage, and not political reasons. It's important to us in general, when we do this internationally, and it should also be important in Norway. I mention it, because in that case I believe that if one is to proceed with the Viking time nomination at a later date when Norway is out of the committee, there must be a thorough professional assessment on the basis of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3641	Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3646	It was nice to hear the representative Elvesuen take away one of the few tasks given to the municipalities in the regional reform – that he wanted it. Otherwise, I also think it was alarming that the representative of the Christian People's Party, Lossius, said that it is impossible to reach what we are going to adopt today to repair the stone churches from the Middle Ages by 2030. Shouldn't the government work to implement our decision? That sounds very strange. I also have to point out that we in the Center Party tend to grant between 100 million. SEK and 150 million. kr more than the Christian People's Party for Cultural Memory Protection each revised budget. We'll give you another five million. kr more than the Christian People's Party in this budget for refurbishment of the stone churches, and that is for planning – which is against the will of the Christian People's Party. Otherwise, the left's case rapporteur had a brilliant post now last, and he also had a good post before that, but there he was going to make what would be the objectives of the conservation strategy. I really hope not that the representative Grimstad will fly around and show everyone around and show commitment and sustainability... [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3657	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3662	All in all, I would like to thank you for a good debate. It says a little about the consensus in Norwegian cultural environment policy that we have largely discussed something that we all agree on, namely the preservation of the stone churches. To emphasize this, the Council of State has now said that this is a decision that – of course – the government is dealing with. I've expressed greater impatience than 2030, just to have said it. It'll be on its own account. Nevertheless, I have to say that it is still incomprehensible to me how the Central Party can ask for a strategy, i.e. in 2017, before the new goals are addressed, and then the party does the opposite, i.e. ask for new goals. But not enough with that: on top of it all, the Central Party is going to postpone the government of the Riksrevision not to have achieved the goals that the party has, for the first time, been demonstrably involved in the government's failure to achieve, and for the second, the government has almost asked the current government not to achieve. I do not understand this – but we shall have something to discuss as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3669	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox Case No. 14, Unit, was treated at voting earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-15.ana.ud463e3677	So today's map is ready to debate. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
