ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e39	The representative of Erlend Wiborg shall apply for parental leave from 25 February to 8 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Björn Laabak, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e59	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e64	On behalf of the representatives Freddy André Øvstegård, Karin Andersen and Marius Meisfjord Jösevold and myself, I would like to make a proposal on securing police resources for work on rape and violence in close relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e69	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will put forward two representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e74	On behalf of the representatives of Kjersti Toppe, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Ole André Myhrvold and myself, I will present a proposal to respect local democracy and continue to investigate hospital operations on Ullevål in line with the will of Oslo City Council. Furthermore, on behalf of the representatives of Kjersti Toppe, Bengt Fasteraune and myself, I would like to make a proposal on ‘to facilitate an increase in ground crew and lower temporary employment in the municipal health and care services’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e81	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e99	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e116	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of reply will be given, with comments from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e123	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation as the spokesperson for this matter of cleaning up the penitentiary legislation. This is a topic we have discussed several times in the Committee, and there is a great difference between the right and the left in these matters. The government party is largely pleased with developments in the labour market, while the opposition is very concerned about the part of the tenants and what the current rules around them lead to insecurity for those added. We had a hearing where twelve instances participated. For me as a case spokesman, it was a constructive hearing. A good deal of questions were asked about having agreed numbers to start with for tenants, i.e. proposal No. 3 in the draft representative. All the hearing agencies that participated were positive about starting such a work. In this way, one would believe that the rest of the committee also noticed the opening up of what is now proposal No. 1 in the option. As case spokesman, I noticed this and tried to get the entire committee to support this proposal. It is obvious to me that if such work were to be started, it would have to a very large extent have been at the social partners' premises. The plural party, with the government at the head and with the Progress Party as a supporting party, could not be involved in this and refers to the work they have asked the Institute for Social Research to do. The problem with this is that the parties have not been allowed to participate in this screening. In addition to this, monitoring is mainly about different forms of association in the labour market and about reviewing the framework for this. There will certainly be some good results from this work, but I doubt that the numbers that appear will be just as detailed and fed down on different sectors, geographical areas, hours and sizes of the projects. It's a shame, because then we're still not going to get agreed numbers on where the problems are greatest, and everyone can be a few of them. There is a pressing need to streamline the regulatory framework for the use and waste of labour. There are significant challenges in working life today when it concerns both the contracting of projects and the exploitation of workers, where there is a minimum level of security for work and wages. It may be profitable for a short-term enterprise, but it is very harmful for a long-term industry. We have long traditions to invest in skills, and it will no longer be natural for a person to work with hired labour. We in SV believe that the use of hired labour has led to too much security for adding and too little commitment to quality and competence. SV does not want to have a separate market for the hire of labour. That is why we are in favour of a significant tightening of the legislation, and we are in favour of a public initiative in the employment service. On this basis, I would like to make the proposals that SV is behind. In addition, together with the Red Party and the Center Party, we will make a loose proposal, which reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit proposals for a ban on the hiring of labour from non-production establishments.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e145	The representative Solfrid Lerbreck then addressed the proposals SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e150	In the past, renting was something that was used to take away peaks in production. Now it has become part of normal operation for many businesses. Some places we hear that rents are in the majority of the workplace. This development weakens Norway’s competitiveness and sends out completely wrong signals to young people at a time when Norway needs more skilled workers and more professionals. The Labour Party wants a safe and fair working life, with full, permanent jobs and a wage to live on. We want to give the trade union workers a job and the apprentices a future. An organised working life is Norway’s foremost competitive advantage. What is good for the workers is also good for the business. Then we have to do what the National Assembly of the Joint Union has asked us to do, namely to wind up the manpower industry in its present form and to strengthen the PES. After the national meeting in the Joint Union, we sat down with the Joint Union and wrote the proposals that the Joint Confederation felt were necessary to clean up the rent once and for all. We are proposing a ban on rentals in the Oslofjord area and in other press areas. In the Oslo region, extensive use of rentals is well documented, and much of it is illegal again under the legislation. In the rest of the country, both in regions and industries, we need more evidence, so we ask the government to map the level of rentals allocated to industries throughout the country. We want to tighten up so that rentals are allowed only by pure vicariates between production companies or if trust and management require it together. We have proposals that will tighten up the possibility of organizing away from the requirement for a maximum of two subcontractors. And we have proposals to exclude actors that repeatedly violate the rental law, from future public contracts. In order to give young people better access to the labour market, we work to strengthen employment services as a public task. None of these proposals have a majority today. If they had a majority, we would have the opportunity to clean up once and for all, but the right-hand side conflicts as usual. They may have had expectations of a different policy from the Progress Party when they left the government, but in labour policy they have once and for all married the Right. They turn out to be an ordinary right-wing party and agree with the government parties in all questions. The Progress Party and the Right now ensure a majority that the problems in the world of work will continue until the government change in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e169	Everyone agrees that a well-regulated working life is the bottom line for well-being, prosperity and growth in Norway, but despite the fact that regular, full employment is the main rule in Norwegian working life, staffing will always need to be adapted to temporary needs. This may include projects of different duration and seasonal peaks, which are in addition to covering sick leave and leave through Vicariats and temporary posts. Renting often occurs in the absence of skilled labour or when one needs to strengthen one's own organisation temporarily, such as in the case of large industrial or public sector digitisation projects. The proposal to allow renting only in the case of pure vicariates will in practice lead to a ban on purchasing expertise in projects where there is a need for resources and competences that an enterprise otherwise does not need. The proposal is too much based on challenges in some industries, while general laws and regulations affect all sectors everywhere. This will in particular affect enterprises and industries in the districts, where the opportunities to undertake large industrial tasks can provide rental needs that also secure permanent jobs locally. It is already possible to agree to hire between production companies, but both seasons and economic cycles have the same needs to be triggered at the same time. Thus, the restriction of rental between production companies is most likely to limit the ability of the same companies to undertake their business, thereby preventing growth and value creation in large parts of Norway. That would be a pity, especially when we now see an inflow into the profession of this government. In a report on manning strategies in small and medium-sized industrial enterprises in Hordaland, Fafo found that enterprises that did not benefit from hiring-in by manning companies are experiencing greater labour pressures among their own employees and more use of different working hours and overtime than comparable enterprises where rental was accepted. They also found that both trust-elected and company managers believed that renting provides flexibility to the company, reducing the likelihood of leave and cancellations in periods of fewer assignments. In the case of a permanent increase in the number of jobs, they preferred the increase in their own basic staff. This confirms that permanent, entire jobs are not only the rule of Norwegian working life, but that businesses and business managers regard this as a good thing. The proposers use a report from 2017 that shows that much of the rentals in the Oslofjord area have been illegal. The report is therefore before the tightening of the rental regulation was adopted. The proposal to ban all rentals from construction contractors in the Oslofjord area, affects the serious operators in the construction industry and, according to the Land Association of Construction Industries, will have very unfortunate and partly dramatic consequences for the construction industries. With regard to the monitoring of the level of rents, which was the subject of the case-rapporteur, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has carried out many research projects over several years on the forms of labour relations, including the extent of renting. In addition, Fafo has also carried out a review of how provisions on hiring and temporary employment are enforced. The Ministry, together with the social partners, has recently also launched a project to identify developments in the use of different forms of association, including hiring-in from recruitment agencies. The wholeness of this work is well on the way to the proposal to monitor the level of rentals. Then we fully agree that suppliers who systematically contravene laws and regulations will not be able to deliver to the public, and that the public sector has a special responsibility to ensure orderly and serious conditions in the labour market. Therefore, the procurement legislation already provides for the possibility of excluding unprofessional suppliers. Therefore, the proposal for measures to exclude actors that have repeatedly breached the initiating legislation is already considered to be respected. So briefly summarised: the rental regulation was recently tightened in. The parties to the construction industry have jointly undertaken several targeted actions, including: The BNL and the Joint Undertaking have common recommendations for the purchase of rentals in the construction industry. There are already different projects for the monitoring of rentals, and the procurement legislation already provides for the exclusion of unprofessional operators in public tenders. The Government has made proposals to strengthen the enforcement of the opening regulation at consultation. The proposal empowers the Labour Inspectorate to monitor compliance with the rules on renting and non-discrimination and to provide instructions and responses in the event of breaches of the rules. This will strengthen control of the rules on lease-in and ensure more effective enforcement of the rules. That is why we are not voting in favour of the proposals that are being put forward here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e190	The matter we are dealing with today concerns a proposal from the Workers' Party where they want to ban rentals from manning companies to the construction industry in the Oslofjord area, a proposal identical to the one proposed by Red in Document 8:58 S for 2017-2018. Although I'm new to the committee, it didn't take long to find out that this matter is not new to the committee, because I have found out that it has been discussed in this room very often earlier. In the spring of 2018 we discussed a proposal from the Workers' Party which proposed a temporary ban on rentals for the construction industry, Document 8:59 S for 2017-2018. At the same time, the Stortinget also dealt with a proposal from SV, which would have a general ban on the hiring out of labour from recruitment agencies. In the previous round, background figures, facts and concerns about the extent of rentals to the construction industry in the Oslo area were thoroughly reviewed, and there were a majority for a number of changes that strengthened the employee’s position and intensified the exercise of employers’ responsibilities by recruitment agencies. In addition, it was agreed that the Labour Inspectorate should be given enforcement powers to follow up the legislation. To be impatient after putting in place changes to the best for most workers is good, but the eagerness for a general ban, as we see now, where one takes the order to put down an industry based on some old figures, and only for parts of the industry, is little luck and not for the best for either the employee, the jobseeker or the employer, nor for the industry. The proposer is well aware of the evaluation that is being carried out and should have patience to see the impact of the measures already taken before condemning an entire industry, for there is no basis for doing so. It's not like the manning industry in general is a problem. It's an industry that can also be the way into working life for those who are outside. Work that provides relevant work experience and possible references may also strengthen the possibilities of a permanent job. Work via the agency can also be a good way to work for those who cannot work full time. It's not like the manning industry in general is a problem. It solves many needs, often real needs for flexibility, and especially where there is variation in mission quantity. Without flexibility, we can risk increasing operating costs for businesses, thereby weakening competitiveness and the industry and also the employment of workers. The rent from manning enterprises to the construction industry in the Oslo area has been high compared to the total share, about 15 pst. We have seen that there have been bad conditions in the construction industry, especially in the Oslo area. We have to be honest with that. However, it does not provide grounds for imposing a general prohibition, with the other negative consequences it entails. The lease-in situation in the construction industry in the Oslo area provided a basis for strengthening the framework for renting and ensuring the enforcement of the legislation, as has already been done. The main rule of Norwegian working life is and shall be permanent employment. It is a goal that as many as possible want to be in full-time positions. It's still going to be like that. Finally, I would also like to point out, as has been done in the past here, the monitoring carried out by Fafo over a four-year period, which looked at the development and use of temporary employment of rentals and self-employed persons in the period 2014-2018. The result shows that 79 pst. all employed persons have a fixed link. And with the facts, and with the changes that have already been made, and on which an evaluation is now being carried out, the Progress Party does not see reason to support the Workers' Party's proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e205	I would like to thank the Workers' Party for addressing this important issue in this round. It's been taken up earlier, and it's going to be necessary to take it up further. The centre party is for permanent and temporary employment. These are the two forms of employment we have. Everyone who is legally employed today in a temporary agency or in a temporary agency must hire their people permanently. I don't think I've gone into the Progress Party – after hearing the last article. So we're talking about the centrality of fixed-term employment, and then in the law, we have exceptions to temporary employment. The centre party does not go in to shut down temporary employment agencies, because what most people think, and what the centre party is for, is that we should have temporary employment agencies that, by law, can use permanent workers temporary workers to cover temporary jobs under the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act. It's incredibly important to be precise on this. What's the Central Party line is that we have to have a well-organized working life, because that's the prerequisite for a safe family life. We must have predictability of work, when one is going to work, and what a servant is doing, and one must have predictability of income and therefore also of how much a worker is working. The centre party is working to bring Norwegian pay and working conditions into all industries – i.e., stronger professional organisation, more flexible pay and employment conditions, more skilled workers living in Norway, and good apprenticeships in production companies. We are in favour of controlled labour immigration, including from the EU outside the Nordic region. There's a whole in what we stand for. We want to have orderly working conditions. When I tightened the Working Environment Act from 1 January 2019, I was the case rapporteur and put quite a few hours into it, because this is complicated. We have to see the whole thing, we have to see the whole industry, we have to see it from the employers, from the companies and from the employees. We need to see it from the different industries, and we need to see it in relation to being self-employed, we have company prices – we have many kinds of work to do. What we're talking about now is part of this whole thing. After the tightening up that was done, we have seen that it is those who want to circumvent the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Environmental Protection Act, which today requires that one has an agreement with the union with the right to cancel by using the first paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Environmental Protection Act instead, and says that where one does not have the right to do so, one uses the people in temporary posts, Section 14-9, second paragraph, point (a), in stoppages. We were prepared for that circumvention, and that is part of the reason why one then has to go further and clarify the legislation. We also have challenges related to enterprise prices. They are the ones who want to avoid this by investing in company prices, i.e. production companies instead of having crew companies hire people who actually take over the operation of the company without being hired workers, but it's in a new employer's place. It is important for the Centre Party that the Labour Inspectorate is allowed to enforce the rental law we have, i.e. get a new section 18-6 first paragraph. I just want to encourage the Council of State to speed up the process he has set up in line with the opposition at Stortinget, namely that the Labour Inspectorate is given the necessary authority to follow up what is today's law. If the Labour Inspectorate doesn't get it, there's too little power over what we're doing. We'll get the situation that serious businesses can be out of competition because the unprofessionals won't. So the center party is for us to have temporary employment agencies. We are for the first paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act with permanent staff to be used for temporary jobs under Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act, second paragraph (b), Vicariats, study leave, parental leave and sick leave. I just want to say at the end: this change in the law that we stand for implies that you have to spend some time because a number of companies today have adapted to what is today's law. So we have to spend time, so that the company gets the necessary profitability to have permanent employees, that we get them schooled, that we have a training offer – at all, that the company is able to get Norwegian working life back on the course with regular employment and more orderly relationships than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e228	Christian People's Party is a party occupied by employees' rights. We showed this in a couple of ways. for the treatment of Prop. 73 L for 2017-2018, on the change in the work environment law, which went on permanent and temporary recruitment and hiring. The new legislation entered into force on 1 January 2019. The Christian People's Party wants an organized working life and thinks this is a basic plank in the Norwegian model. Through tripartite cooperation, we have managed to create a world-class working life in many areas, e.g. in respect of pay and working conditions, health, environment and safety, and also other areas. Nevertheless, although fixed, full additions are the main rule in Norwegian working life, there will always be a need to adapt the crew to temporary needs. Projects may have different durations, and some industries have distinct seasonal peaks. This comes in addition to needs arising from sick leave and leave provided by the Vicariat or temporary settings. Leasers of labour will very often be grounds for lack of specific competence or for a need to strengthen their own organisation temporarily. This will often be the case in major works, industrial tasks and public sector digitisation projects. In practice, the proposal to limit rents to being allowed by pure vicariate will lead to a ban on purchasing services and expertise in relation to small and large-scale projects where one has a temporary need for resources and competences not otherwise required by an enterprise. Too many activities and industries in the districts will prevent large industrial tasks from attracting temporary labour to cover peaks and specific competences. It will again put the fixed ground crew at risk in these companies operating locally. Thus, the delimitation of hired labour to production enterprises is most likely to limit also the potential of the same production companies to carry out their tasks, thus preventing growth and value creation in large parts of Norway. Retirement benefits are a trans-regulated form of employment relationship, where the employee has a permanent job in the manning agency. The working conditions of the crew member shall, as a general rule, be continuous and time-limited, and it shall be added to the staff member's work in the form of a genuine scope of employment. The government is listening to a proposal to strengthen the enforcement of the rules of incorporation. The proposal provides the Labour Inspectorate with a picture of monitoring compliance with the rules on indemnity and non-discrimination, and of imposing and responding to violations of the rules. This will strengthen control of the housing rules and ensure more effective enforcement of the legislation. It is also agreed that suppliers operating contrary to laws and regulations should not be allowed to deliver to the public and that the public should, of course, support a serious and decent working life. Therefore, there are already several decisions to contribute to this in the Public Procurement Code, including: own regulatory decisions on pay and working conditions and limits in terms of volume of sectors which have been specifically deferred. On this basis, the Christian People's Party will not support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e249	Renting into the labour market is spreading. The new lease-in provisions that entered into force a year ago are not followed. This is well documented. In October, trade unions in Oslo presented a report showing that the proportion of rentals is sky high. Every third building in Oslo is rented out. It's at the same level as before Stortinget tightened in, and 80 pst. by the lessee is an illegal lease-in from a manning undertaking. A survey by the Bergen Trade Union shows that eight out of ten construction sites break the provisions on rental. The head of the Union Trade Union Confederation, Jorge Dahl, said to the Free Trade Movement that the opening rules obviously do not work. In October, the class struggle wrote that hiring Eastern Europeans takes over for permanent employees also in industry. On many yards, East European hired workers are now in the majority. At Kværner Verdal, there have been five times as many temporary employees as permanent employees in important trade unions for periods of time. The leader of the Joint League, Jørn Eggum, said to the class struggle that permanent employment is deleted is not the main rule of the shipyards, and calls this a frightening and unfortunate development. Then there was also renting one of the biggest themes of the Joint Union's national meeting in the autumn, and there it hailed with horror examples from industry by industry throughout the country. They decided at their national meeting to wind up the crew industry in its present form. During the examination of the present proposal, Mr Hauglie wrote to the Committee in his reply: ‘I assume that the legislation is complied with and that the purpose of the changes to the rules is not undermined or circumvented.’ It would have been nice if it were like that. But here the government has not followed in the hour, because there's one thing we've seen after the changes in the law, there's a total lack of willingness on the part of the agencies to comply with the rules and constraints that the majority of the population provided a year ago. After clarifying the definition of permanent employment, the practice of offering job breaks started in 8, 5 and 3 pst. - So 3 pst. permanent employment, greetings to the agency staff. And it's not just the rental agencies that bypass the new rules. Entrepreneurs who use the hired labour force also care little about the new rental rules. Landsbygg says they feel that the contractors continue as before or try to find new loopholes, so they can hire labour just as they did before Stortinget tightened up the rules. So the real world experience so far shows that as long as commercial renting of labour is allowed, the agencies and rental companies will do everything they can to continue as before. For years, the trade union movement has warned that the recruitment agencies are weakening the organised working life, reversing permanent employment, reversing vocational training and weakening the willingness and ability of companies to invest in productivity and innovation. During the consultation on the legislative proposal, both the Arbeitsmannsbundt and the EL and IT Association said that renting must be prohibited throughout the country, not just in Oslo, and that with only a regional ban, the agencies will only move the activity to a place where it is still legal. We share that concern, and we also support the minority proposals, which will put an important loophole in the law. However, limiting rent further will only lead to these agencies finding new ways of circumventing the law, as they have now done in the previous year. In addition, we know that neither the Labour Inspectorate nor the trustees have any chance of checking that each hired worker is not hired on the wrong terms and actually replaces one who is on real leave. Red will take the duck at the root. We've been trying to narrow it down. That's what they're twisting around. The next step is to ban rentals from non-production enterprises. This was the case in Norway up to the year 2000. Then there was a rental between the production companies. We had pitched before the year 2000, we built our country before the year 2000. The wheels went around without the release of the crew bureaus. A regulation of this kind must be reintroduced to prevent the unions from breaking up and we will have conditions that we have seen on the courts in recent years. I'm addressing proposal No. 7 on behalf of the Centre Party, SV and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e275	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e281	As everyone has said, fixed and direct employment is the absolute rule of Norwegian working life. This means that rental and temporaryity are safety valves and nothing more than that. It is also worth noting that overall, looking at Norway and all industries as a whole is not the element of renting. About 1.5-2 pst. is a calculation of annual works carried out. Nevertheless, some industries — especially the construction industry — have had a much higher level of rental. I fully agree with the concern of both the proposers and the rest of the Committee about the use of contracted labour in such industries, and it is important to point out why. It's not because there's something wrong with renting itself, but because – if it gets too much over time and the legislation is too weak – it threatens the firm, the entire position and the fixed employment. On the other hand, if you were to go into the opposite ditch and put as strict limits on rentals as, among other things. the minority here wants, this will make the situation of enterprises very difficult, not least because work may vary over seasons. There has been a very large element of rental in the Oslo area, and in particular the construction industry has been highlighted. It's worth looking at the latest numbers. Rents from the civil engineering industry to construction were reduced by 15 pst. in the third quarter of 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, in the country as a whole. In Oslo, the reduction was 23 p.m. NHO Service and Trade – that is only their opinion – believes that this is due to the new rules introduced for the manning industry. New rules and stricter requirements have also been introduced. The proposal to empower the Labour Inspectorate to supervise the rental and non-discrimination rules has been consulted, and now we are going to follow it up. We do that as fast as we can, and I intend to make a proposal for the Storting in the spring. Many of the challenges described in the proposal for a representative are precisely about some of the non-compliance with the legislation we already have. I think it is a very good principle for a politician to be at least equally concerned with how the legislation is being followed – and in particular that it is possible to follow, but there is a slightly different discussion – than just adopting new legislation. Therefore, reinforced enforcement is important, not least in order to address the unprofessional actors, who are not only a problem for workers in Norway but are also, to a large extent, a problem for enterprises, not least small and medium-sized ones. At the same time, hiring labour for more than one enterprise can be absolutely necessary and can solve a legitimate need for labour. Establishments may need to avoid unforeseen production stops and it may be difficult to obtain sufficient labour locally. In my view, the proposals for further restrictions on access to rentals would provide too little flexibility for businesses. It can also have a different consequence, and that is that if you tighten up too much on rent, it might pry out elsewhere, it might be in the form of hired consultants – which I know several parties, at least one party, are critical of – or through several temporary jobs. But the numbers show that the rental goes down, and the decline is deciduously the largest in the Oslo region. That's very good. I believe that the responsibility of the parties, i.e. the trade unions and industry – not least in Oslo – is one of the reasons why the recruitment of construction-related subjects has now taken place after being too low for a long time. With regard to the mapping of the amount of rentals, I have nothing against that kind of mapping in itself. But as many have said, including from the government parties, a lot of this has been done, including the work that the parties are doing by looking at whether forms of association, that is, modern working life, will solve some of this. With regard to the proposals relating to public contracts, it is clear that the public sector should be at the forefront in order to prevent unprofessional operators and labour criminals. Those who break laws and regulations in Norway should not be allowed to deliver to the public and the public sector has a special responsibility. However, since the Stortinget has dealt with a large report on the procurement law, which I know was presented by the Ministry of Industry – that was probably last year – one knows that there is a regulation in place here. The challenge is once again to ensure that it is complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e306	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e311	With the posts of the Council of State, the spagate Right is in, complete. There was no lack of fear propaganda from the right when, in 2018, the Stortinget adopted the historical restrictions: it would upset the working life, and even claims that Norway’s ability to handle a pandemic would be limited as a result. Now they've been in force for one year, and none of the horrors have turned on. The Prime Minister said when the Stortinge decided that it was her greatest defeat. Margeret Hagerup, who sits on the committee, said that she was «unrelentingly sad». In meeting with the crew industry, the right-hand side pays rent, while in meetings with us in debates in the Stortinget they later claim that they actually agreed to propose the same restraints. And now the state council stands here and defends what his party formerly strongly warns against. Does the Right realise that they were completely wrong when the Storting adopted these restrictions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e320	No, I don't think so. I still believe that it was unwise for the Storting to go from what the government proposed, namely an offensive policy and stricter rules where the problem was greatest, namely in the Oslo region, and make it a nationwide regulation. I believe that it is of limited interest if I as the Council of State at any time want to go back and discuss all the decisions that the majority of people have made that I might have a different opinion about. I don't think that would be particularly interesting either for the committee, for the Storting or for people who listen to it. That is why I am busy pointing to the results that have come from the legislation we have. Then it's worth noting that the decline in rentals is the largest in the Oslo region, where the problem has also been the biggest. When discussing this, it is not the case that the Right or Government parties are opposed to having new measures, but there is something about not just introducing new measures to do so – until you have seen how the legislation works.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e327	I'm recording that the Council of State is waving away from the issues. It must mean that the right-hand side realizes that the claims they made in the previous round when we adopted these restrictions have proved to be completely incorrect. This was not what the right-hand side claimed – on the contrary, it has helped to clean up the labour market. But the right-hand side has this as part of its policy of reducing the influence of trade unions on the labour market, reducing the level of organisation, and they are therefore sitting silent and watching as a majority of tenants in many jobs. Although we now have a relatively high level of organisation in Norway, the policy of the right-hand side helps to weaken the influence of trade unions, to increase the cost of being a member of a trade union, and to increase the diversity of society and to limit the degree of organisation in Norway. Is it pure right-wing ideology that lies behind this policy, or does the right-hand side have some research that says that it is smart to reduce the level of organisation and increase the rate of rent?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e332	First of all, I think the answer to the previous question, which is also this, is not an illustration that I'm waving away from the issues, but rather illustrates that very rhetorical questions are often just that – so there's a lot of rhetoric and not necessarily a matter of substance. It is not the government's policy to reduce the degree of organisation, rather the opposite. Our policy is to maintain and maintain a well-organised working life. Our policy is to use and maintain the Norwegian model, to maintain tripartite cooperation, to maintain a strong and competitive industry and a strong and competitive business environment, such as: is due to tripartite cooperation. This has been our policy, for example. strengthening the professions – which means that for the first time in a long time more people are applying for a profession than those preparing for a course of study – that more people will have to take up apprenticeships. So the apprentices go up, not down. It's incredibly important, even though we still have a lot left to do. It has also been our policy to tighten up the rental legislation, but that does not mean that we can participate in today's opposition proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e343	It is good that the Right appreciates what is happening in the construction sector. There is a result of the close cooperation between the National Association of Construction in the NHO and the Joint Union and what was the opposition in the Stortinget at that time. I would like to thank both the NHO BNL and the Joint Alliance for what we got there. However, problems are increasing in the engineering and food industries, so it is important to address them. The most important thing that happened at the last time was that we got rid of the employment contract for which the NHO Service and Trade went on, namely permanent employment without pay between jobs, which was not a fixed employment. We were made clear that the crew companies had to have permanent employment. Thus, today we have only two forms of employment: permanent employment and temporary employment. My question is about permanent employment in the manning companies. I'm aware that it can't just be 100 pst. positions. How low a percentage can the Council of State accept within the manning companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e352	It is not possible to set a percentage for it, but it is worth remembering that the legislation not only says that there should be fixed employment, it also says something about the predictability of work – I do not remember the precise wording now. To take a theoretical example: if you have a regular job with totally sporadic guards – it is impossible to plan when the day comes, you are called when it should be – and it constitutes a 10 pst. position, it might be problematic. On the other hand, if you have a regular job and work three hours every Monday – and that's what you do – that might be a different situation. It's the kind of thing that the right authorities have to look at – if it were to come up with such issues. But it's not just regular employment, it's also a bigger ramification than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e361	That's right. We went into that thoroughly in the committee when we dealt with it. There had to be predictability for smooth work and even income in the future, minimum 20 pst. position, i.e. one day a week, should not be a bad requirement. My next question is what kind of association this tightening has led to. We now received Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, which can replace permanent employees with staff in employment agencies, but there is a requirement to have an agreement with a trade union with the employment right. Then someone chooses not to use that access, but the Working Environment Act § 14-12 first paragraph, and says that they use it for stoppages when it comes to temporary jobs. Does the Council of State think that it is a circumvention of the majority will of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e368	No, I don't think using the rules you have is a circumvention of the majority will of the Storting. However, the representative Lundtigen points to something very central, because I assume that even the SV and the external-left party Red, when they want to have a ban, does not in practice want to remove trade unions with the right to set-aside to accept rent – if you have country-wide tariff agreements. There is a fairly large proportion of rentals, not least in established manufacturing industries and also in large parts of the yard. Here I think it's a balance, not least for some small businesses, especially in the districts. We know that small and medium-sized enterprises are more important the longer out of the big cities you come. Then it's not always like having a nationwide collective agreement. We may wish that, of course, we can say that it is smart to organize, both as an employer and as an employee, but if you don't have it, I think it's too strong a restriction to block their entire ability to rent. It will weaken them in competition with other businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e377	The construction industry in the Oslo area is very well aware of the new supply regime in the Municipality of Oslo. It has been well received, and we are already seeing positive effects on the recruitment of young people. These rules work very well on public supply, but they do not have the big impact on the private market. A builder said to me last week that he and his 20 employees have given up less assignments on the private market. It is no longer possible to take smaller tasks, such as changing a wall in a house or installing new windows, because of the competition. My question, then, is: What did the Council of State think about the rules of supply in the construction industry in the Oslo area, and what can the Council of State do to deal with the black private market in the construction industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e385	Now I do not know all the details of the so-called Oslo model, nor in the so-called Skiens model, from my home country, but I am basically positive that municipalities and county councils take responsibility and make clear rules for their purchases. I believe that there is also an interesting discussion about whether we should collect some of this and use it as a kind of starting point to look at the national legislation. I remember when I became Minister of Knowledge. Then there had been a red-green government for eight years, and it was told that it was so inwardly difficult to impose apprenticeship requirements for public procurement. It wasn’t clear – and it’s serious businesses that have apprentices. We did it. That was right at the time; now we have to see if there are other and new measures. So I know that very many small craft companies say they can no longer compete on the private market. I think that's a pity and shame, but it's not the competition that's the problem, it's the unfair, unfair competition, that it enters a company with underpaid workers who may not comply with Norwegian laws and regulations at all. It's not competition, it's unprofessional work, and we're going to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e394	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e401	This matter is primarily about whether we are going to have a working life based on what everyone is talking about after and after: the Norwegian model. As you know, the Norwegian model is not in the way of the Norwegian people – it stands up for the Norwegian people. The Norwegian model also implies listening to those who wear shoes, and in this case it is clearly the workers. In Norway, it is agreed – at least most people think – that permanent employment is right and that pay and working conditions should be proper. But when you listen to the debate here today, it sounds like there's either fixed employment or rent that applies, and if we can't have rent, it's going to be very bad in business. But it is fully possible under the Working Environment Act to employ people temporarily where there are stoppages, but you should not base your entire operation on not having regular employment, as we see anywhere. We hear the government and the majority in this Chamber say that there have been changes to the legislation, so now we have to wait and see. The proposal that has been put forward is based on old knowledge, they say. But we haven't seen very long ago that rents are still widespread. We get reports from the trade unions almost daily about how it is out there. If it is not empirical, there is at least reason to believe that social dumping and crime at work occur more frequently in situations where there is a high level of rent. We saw it a few months ago, when the workers at the National Museum got half their pay. We saw it a few days ago, when we read about an employee who got Christmas in response when he asked for the payroll from an employer. We can't have it like that in Norway. I think there's actually a consensus on that, but then there's a reason to ask why we don't get stronger quadruples from more people about this. Why do not those who are serious put more of a responsibility on the part of those who are unprofessional? Why aren't employers' organisations and business owners on when we see things like that? It should be torch for those who drive decently and against such a development. The proposals we are making today have been developed together with the employee organisations, those who wear the shoes. That should be an important argument when we are going to vote here in the Chamber today. Then we have to make sure that more people are organized. This does not just happen on a hard-to-use basis – then the government has to come up with tools that allow more people to be organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e416	There is no doubt that we need more proud professionals in this country. It's about speaking out to the tradesman and the tradesman. The working party wants to focus on the practical school bag, and that we start early on. In terms of professional investment, we've spent a billion dollars. kr this period to be spent on professional activities. We will provide young people with an apprenticeship guarantee, we will have a commitment to higher vocational education through 1 000 new college places, we must recognise the Master's degree syllabus as a specialist for many of these young people. We must make this clear, and the young people who are going to apply to these professions must have the security of meeting a decent working life – a working life that appreciates their competence and working capacity and ensures their safety in everyday life. For example, in 2014, there was one case in the Supreme Court. There were two former workmates of mine, truck driver from Orkanger, who filed an action against the state. Why did they do that? Yes, because they were licensed from a local printery and Nav said no to day money because they thought these were business fluctuations that the company should have foreseen. But it was the employees who had to bear the weight by not getting the daily allowance. Employees lost their rights to the law. The case was then brought before the Supreme Court in 2014, and they were given full support there – it was a unanimous judgment – and the State had to pay all the costs. The employees were entitled to a daily allowance. When the public operates in such a way to workers who have lost their jobs, how can we expect it to work in the private sector of such a system? Having a good regulatory framework related to permanent employment and permanent employment, and not just temporaryity, is so important. If people are to have security for work, income, family and housing, we must have a working life to provide for it. And it does not weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian business – it strengthens the competitiveness of Norwegian business that people feel secure. Then they seek new skills, and then they contribute to the company – not the opposite. The proposal put forward here to provide workers with safety legislation is important, and then the level of organisation is absolutely fundamental. Why is there a lower level of organisation in the private sector than in the public sector? It's about exactly this: small businesses that want to weaken employees' rights. We can't have any of that. We need to strengthen them. This is what the Nordic model is all about – the tripartite cooperation, which is so important to all who are working.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e429	Once again, we stand here and have a debate on rentals, just a year after the Storting made significant cuts. If we were to make it even more difficult to hire people today, it was the serious recruitment agencies and companies that were again injured. Norway has a safe and healthy working life. Most people respect laws and rules. But there are those who are exploiting the system and the people around them. It's totally unacceptable. We have therefore been constantly working to address labour-life crime and unprofessional actors since the government change in 2013. But working life is not black and white, and one does not need regulation based on the extremes. Most of them deal with the legislation and have an orderly pay and working conditions. Significant changes in the industry have already been made in cooperation with the social partners. The main rule of Norwegian working life is and shall be permanent employment. It gives predictability of work and income. The right and government have been given the advantage of a better definition of fixed-term employment, which ensures better predictability of work and pay. Together, let's continue to make sure that we have a clean and organized working life with the crew industry on the team. It deserves the industry. They work every day for people to get into work, while companies have the flexibility to be able to run efficiently. Many enterprises and jobs are simply dependent on periods of hired labour to make it go around. We all want to defeat unprofessional actors who break the law, but we must not use the wrong tools. The proposals of the Labour Party will penalise enterprises around the country, although the problem is largely limited to the construction industry in the Oslo area. It's irresponsible, it's unfair, and it's unsocial. Extra evil happens when the measures hit those who sit at the bottom of the table, those who strive to find a job. I myself have been working on recruitment for many years and do not recognize myself in the story on the left-hand side of the story about the manning industry. Stories are different, independent of industries. This industry abdicated me with recruitments while giving companies quick help in production stops. They also gave the chance to many of those who were the furthest away from work. They got a foot inside, an opportunity to support themselves. The world cannot be seen in black and white, nor in the labour market. We should therefore stop blackmailing this industry, which definitely has the right to life. It may be interesting to ask SV and Rødt whether they will prohibit renting even when it comes to agreements with trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e450	The theme we're discussing now is incredibly important, but it's also very complicated. Because what we're doing is going into one part of Norwegian working life, and what we're doing there is going to have to be seen in relation to the rest of Norwegian working life. I would just like to stress once again – because there are several speakers who are obviously not fully aware of it – that today there are only two forms of employment: fixed-term employment and temporary employment. All recruitment agencies have to employ their people permanently, the discussion is about how big a position. It was said by the Council of State that it is important to have fair competition in a safe working life. I fully support that. For the Centre Party, it is essential to look at the situation of both the employer, the company and the employee. We need to create a regulatory framework that doesn't make a difference between large and small companies. Today we have a number of craft companies with 20 employees who do not have a union agreement with a trade union with the right to cancel. They do not then fall within the scope of using the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act. They see it as a problem, and for them I fully agree. I totally agree. The point of the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Labour Environment Act is that a manning company should be used in a production company to replace its own employees, whether they are permanent employees or temporary employees. So it creates a problem when some companies that want to make use of a crew company don't have the kind of professional organisation that today's law requires. But then we have to go back to the point, that crew companies were initially a matter of covering up vicariates. Vicariats are needed to cover up because the employer is in an emergency, needs a person to enter a vicarariat, gets it from a temporary agency in an efficient and good way — perhaps an expensive way, but it meets the need. It's a great thing, and it'll still have the Center Party – seafaringly. Then we're going to have the Employment Environment Act provisions on temporary employment to take up work stops. That is why we also call about the legislation on permitting and all the other schemes that ensure and balance the interests between the employer and the employee. It is so essential to safeguard the interests on both sides and to see this whole thing. It's so important to get control. And to the check today from the Labour Inspectorate: I hope we get a new section 18-6 first paragraph, in that the Labour Inspectorate will check this. But then the Council of State must also give way to the fact that the Labour Inspectorate has people out in the workplace and has real supervision, or it becomes a paper tiger.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e469	The right side is in an incredible spat in this case. Margaret Hagerup has just been up and marketed Right as the manpower industry's best friend, while the Council of State stands and upholds the law that they themselves voted against, and defends it with beaks and claws. When we adopted this historic tightening in 2018, there was no lack of fears from the right about how bad it would be in Norwegian working life – building projects that would be stopped, from health care we heard some claim that it was not possible for Norway to deal with a pandemic. There were ridiculous claims, which of course have been rejected over and over again, and show that the right-hand side was wrong. It also admits the right when they now defend the legislation that they so strongly opposed. On the contrary, it has helped to clean up employment in many areas. But where there is still rent, the illegal rental, as the report from the fall of 2019 showed us, thrives in the Oslofjord area, where there are 80 pst. illegal rental where there is rental. That is why we are promoting proposals to clean up once and for all. In this debate, too, we are getting false statements from the right that these proposals will prevent actors from gaining expertise. I have to remind you that there is full access to employing people in Norway even when temporary and seasonal work is needed. There is also full access to lease-in as long as it is not from a staffing agency, with our proposal for a ban in the Oslofjord area. It is claimed that our proposals will put down branches. But I have to remind you that it's the trade unions themselves for those who work in these industries, who ask us for these proposals. They do not want to lay down their own jobs, they want to have security for work and security in work. A small explanation of vote at the end of the debate on the proposal put forward as a loose proposal by the Centre Party, SV and Red. This proposal was also considered at the national meeting of the Joint Undertaking and was rejected by the national meeting. That is not what the National Assembly of the Joint Union has asked the Stortinget to do. On the contrary, the decision of the Joint Undertaking would not be unanimous if it contained the proposal now being put forward by the Centre Party, Red and SV, because it would weaken the influence of trade unions and those elected by the trustees on the labour market. It will weaken the ability of the trustees to gain power over the decisions on whether to hire or not. We therefore deal with it as a unanimous national meeting, the representatives of the workers most affected by the rent, have asked us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e482	Thank you for the discussion. Just a brief remark to the representative of Grande: I don't know if it's a bad short-term memory – it may be – or if it's just that the representative doesn't listen when he asks for something and gets an answer, or if it's that the representative is operating with some kind of own type of grinder in his head, that whatever the answer is, it's in his head what he wanted it to be in advance. It's not like I'm defending today's legislation with skin and hair. I was very honest and open about this: the government parties voted against this being true to the whole country. But I think it makes sense to base it on the legislation that is. So it is quite possible to both hit hard on unprofessional rentals and think that excessive rentals are a problem, and at the same time not jump on the left-hand stamping, almost, of an entire industry. I also fully agree with the Hagerup representative's description of an industry that both contributes to important things for Norwegian business and that contributes to jobs for many people who need a chance in their working life. Here it's simply a matter of having two thoughts in your head at the same time. Then you can wonder what will become the policy of the opposition at the end when what may be a total ban on renting from Red and SV meets another proposal from the Center Party, which the Workers' Party believes reduces the influence of trade unions. Maybe we'll have to wait to see that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e493	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e512	Economic crime such as money laundering, tax evasion and corruption is a serious threat to the welfare state. Billions that could have been spent on redistribution, hospitals and infrastructure, instead end up in the pockets of criminals and super-rich people. A study presented in 2017 estimated that the richest families – only about 1,100 families in Scandinavia – had a third of the tax they should have paid in 2006. In 2010, the then tax director assumed that Norwegians had been deprived of assets abroad of 200 billion. kr. In the field of labour crime alone, it is estimated that the amount of tax deducted is between 28 billion. kr and 60 brd. kr per year. The DNB scandal has explained how Norwegian financial corporations can be used for tax avoidance and corruption. This is the country's largest bank, which has been the intermediary for large transactions from an Icelandic fishing giant to a post office in the tax haven of the Marshall Islands and on to Namibia, where part of the money has been used for corruption. Norway is by no means prejudiced over serious economic crime, perhaps on the contrary. It's about large sums, the sums that the community misses. In addition, we know that the use of tax havens, money laundering and corruption is part of financing other criminal activity and terrorism. In an increasingly globalised and digitised world, money can be moved simpler and faster than ever. Then it is essential that we have a strong Ecocrime that can detect, investigate and report financial crime. It's about the very foundation of our society, that everyone contributes by ability, no one sneaks away. It is also about combating other serious crime in everything from child abuse to drug trafficking and terrorist financing — cash flows are often key. That is why it has been very worrying to follow today's Business Series on Ecocrime, which is our special agency in the police and prosecution authority to combat financial crime and environmental crime. Several cases have shown how Ecocrim does not have sufficient resources to manage an increasing amount of suspicious transactions from financial actors such as banks and real estate agents, that the messages result in few notifications and stopped the transaction, and that Ecocrim takes in few cases on which they are suing. Ecocrim's messages to the tax rate are also fewer than before. The former DNB Whitewasher, who has also worked in Økokrim, goes so far as to say that it is no joke to call Økokrim. It must make the alarm bells ring. The Ecokrim Financial Intelligence Unit does not investigate its own cases but establishes reports sent to the police districts. Police districts are supposed to investigate economic crime in their own areas, but we see that the rate of settlement for these cases in the police districts is very high. That is worrying, because it suggests that many people who are behind different forms of economic crime are free. Last year, the National Attorney General presented a supervisory report that drew this up. The Advocate General writes that the unit transmits many reviews to the police districts, that the reports are thorough and well documented, but are to a small extent followed up in the police district concerned. The lawyer writes that this is not satisfactory. I believe it is obvious that there needs to be a grip on Ecocrime and the investigation of economic crime in Norway. At any time, there will be a priority debate in the police. It's always good things and serious crime to deal with. Exploration of cash flows, tax evasion and money laundering can lose out on issues that are perceived as more acute and closer to people. It's natural. At the same time, it cannot be exaggerated how important it is to combat crime that in many ways undermines our entire social order. The reality is that this has become more demanding in the face of just globalisation and digitisation. Then we also need to discuss whether today's system is appropriate. Firstly, and perhaps most importantly, does Ecocrim have sufficient financial resources? The budget of Økokrim is primarily directed to employees, to people who work there. With an increase in the budget, Ecocrim will be able to employ more and do more. I asked former Minister of Justice Kallmyr questions about that, and his answer was to show that this is the police directorate's responsibility. I know the division of responsibilities here, but I would nevertheless argue that it is a political responsibility that Ecocrim should be given priority. Further: Is today’s organization appropriate? The fact that police districts are also investigating financial crime in their regions has obvious advantages. At the same time, provision statistics show that these cases are losing in the fight for priorities. Now, as I understand it, Økokrim is going to work more in the districts and contribute more with competence out there. That seems wise, because here it's obviously necessary to have a point competence. But will it solve the core of the challenge – priority? Finally, how can cooperation with financial institutions and Ecocrime be improved? We rely on all forces, public and private, working together to combat this crime. With those challenges, I look forward to hearing the Minister of Justice's answers and reflections on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e535	First of all, let me be quite clear that the government is giving high priority to the fight against financial crime. Economic crime is a serious social problem. In addition to being a threat to a well-functioning business, it poses, in its ultimate consequence, a threat to the basic values upon which the welfare state is built. It is also important to prevent terrorist financing. Thus, work is also well supported under national security in a broad sense. A number of measures have been taken to combat and prevent economic crime in recent years. In 2017, the government presented a strategy against money laundering, terrorist financing and funding for the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The strategy is cross-sectoral and reflects the government’s desire to better coordinate overall national efforts against these types of crime. Most of the measures in the strategy have been implemented and we are currently in the process of renewing it based on current risk assessments. The government’s strategy against labour crime from 2015 was revised in 2017 and then in 2019. As part of the follow-up to this strategy, seven a-krim centres are established and a national inter-territorial analysis and intelligence centre is established to strengthen the response to economic crime. Crime at work is widely defined, and the efforts made here contribute to the prevention and combating of several forms of economic crime, including fraud, competitivity and money laundering. The government has strengthened the police investigation area by 83 million. kr in the 2020 budget. The Ministry of Justice and Defence directs the Directorate of Police by setting targets and demanding an overall level. It is the Directorate that allocates funds to the police districts and special agencies, including Ecocrim. I am aware that the Directorate of Police has provided a resource increase for Ecocrim in recent years. Ecocrime's research resources shall be used for particularly serious issues. Ecocrime is also to provide assistance to police districts and state lawyers, but most of the cases of financial crime are dealt with by the police districts themselves. The Ecocrime Financial Intelligence Unit receives suspicious transactions reports, known as MT reports, which are transmitted by financial institutions and other money laundering reporting agents. The unit's task is to analyse the reports and pass on what they find to the police, supervisory authorities or foreign partners for follow-up. The role of ecocrime is also evolving. In recent years, ecocrim has assisted police districts more than in the past. They have also been assigned professional responsibility to police districts for the removal of dividends from criminal offences, including detention, and financial trackside. The aim is to contribute to better efforts in these areas. In December 2019, Ecocrim launched an internal review of the Financial Intelligence Unit, EFE. The review will hopefully result in actions that will contribute to an even better effort. Let me say a little more about the work done on the suspicious transaction reports, the MT reports. The threshold for reporting to the Financial Intelligence Unit under the Money Laundering Act in Økokrim is low. The reports mainly contain data on financial transactions, persons and companies associated with them and, where appropriate, the circumstances in which the reporting agent considers suspicious. The content and quality of the data depend on the group of actors to which the reporting agent belongs and varies widely. The quality significantly affects the possibility of using the report in subsequent analytical work. It is important to stress that the ETUC’s prioritisation of MT reports for further analysis is risk-based. In ‘National Risk Assessment – Whitewashing and Terror Financing in Norway 2018’, banks and actors provide payment services, which are considered to be at the highest risk of being abused for money laundering and terrorist financing. The EGE therefore prioritises the use of MT reports from these actors and looks in particular at reports dealing with high-risk products and vulnerable industries, foreign officials or transactions to or from high-risk areas. At the same time, the EPE shall also be aware of and give priority to analyses in line with the key leadership of the Government and the National Attorney for Crime Nationally. In addition to issues and analyses on money laundering and terrorist financing, MT reports are given as a basis for analyses dealing with other areas of crime, in line with the priorities of the government and the National Attorney, such as serious financial crime, child abuse, particularly cases of direct crime, and labour-life crime. The EGE shall also establish and transmit notifications to the police districts, both on request and on its own initiative. In addition to being the starting point for the notifications, information from MT reports is included, among others. in Økokrim’s response to requests from police districts and other country financial intelligence units. In 2019, 567 such enquiries were answered. Let me then make a few comments about the comparison that both the representative Kaski and several other teams have made lately, between the total number of MT reports received by the EFE and the number of transactions stopped. By virtue of the Money Laundering Act, Ecocrim may, in exceptional cases, prohibit the execution of a transaction, i.e. stop the transaction. This is a narrow rule of exception, and the same principles of proportionality resulting from the use of criminal proceedings should also be emphasised here. In practice, in most cases, transactions have already been completed when entering the EFE and therefore cannot be stopped. Therefore, the number of transactions received does not correspond to the real ability to stop transactions. It is also not useful to try to measure the value of MT reports by counting the number of money laundering cases. These reports may lead to the launch of all types of investigations in the field of economic crime and in other areas. Criminal cases originating from an MT report will be found in statistics as a matter of another criminal offence. Therefore, although the number of transactions stopped could certainly have been higher, it is important to see the reports of suspicious transactions in a larger picture, where the reports contribute to the fight against other serious crimes for which the government and the National Attorney have given leadership priority. So we are on the right track, but of course we can be better and more effective in the fight against economic crime. Here it is essential that many agencies, both public and private, make an effort. The public and private sectors are already cooperating in combating money laundering, terrorist financing and financing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Both Ecocrim and PST guide and are in dialogue with the private sector. The private sector is a valuable player in combating money laundering and terrorist financing. At the same time, I am open to further development of such public-private cooperation. Together with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I will meet the relevant Heads of State or Government and together with them I will look into the need to take further action against financial crime. Both banks and other reporting agents must also assume their responsibilities by continuing to report suspicious transactions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e565	Thank you for the reply from the Minister of Justice. I have to say I'm a little surprised at the answer, because this is an interpellation about Ecocrime specifically and not an interpellation about the entire scope of the subject matter of money laundering and work-life crime. It is important, and there is a lot of other important work done by the authorities and in the private sector, but it is clear that Ecocrim has a special role to play in coping with this and in ensuring investigation and conviction when there is financial crime and tax evasion — and so it does in Norway. That is why I call for the Minister of Justice to focus more on what is the topic here, namely ecocrim and the worrying issues we have seen in today's business and as the statistics show. When we have a former money laundering manager in the country's largest bank, DNB, who goes out and says there's no point in calling Ekokrim, it's serious. When we see that the number of messages about suspicious transactions increases as much as it does now -- it was over 11,000 last year -- and there are only six transactions being stopped, it's a very low number. I fully agree that there will be no basis for saying that you should go in and get hold of all these messages about suspicious transactions. Of course, Ecokrim will use many of the messages to form a complete picture, to be able to exercise intelligence, to be able to cooperate with other countries, but even Ecokrim has said in today's business and suggested that the number of transactions that should have been stopped should probably be higher. The same applies to money laundering reports; we see that there are fewer of them. And the Council of State was involved in the cooperation with the police districts, and that Ecocrim is now more likely to assist them. Yes, it is good, but does the Minister of Justice think that the rate of detention we see in the police districts is unproblematic? It doesn't help to send a lot of well-worked stuff out into the police districts if they're just put in there. The consequences of this is that there are criminals who go free. Finally, there has been a certain increase in the budget of Ecocrim over the last few years, and that is positive. It has also called for the opposition in Stortinget for several years now. But the question is, when one sees these statistics, and when one knows what the significance of ecocrim is: is that resource growth really sufficient? The budget of Ecocrim is not going to go away if you compare it with, for example, the budget of Ecocrim. a police district, and I believe that we need to address ourselves when we know the significance of ecocrim for Norway as a whole, and the complexity of this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e576	I'm happy for the interpellation, and I'm happy for the commitment, for that we need to have in this important work. But I do not agree with the representative Kaski that I have not been very careful about the role of Ecokrim, the job of Ecokrim and how they work in this field. My clear impression is that Ecokrim is doing a very important job, and that they are very good at what they are doing. We are talking here about specialists, who are going to have to take responsibility in the most complex and difficult issues. That's what I think they're doing. I am also happy to see that the rate of accommodation for Økokrim has fallen sharply from 2016 to 2019 – in fact a decrease of 38 p.m.. Statistics are important, and statistics can give us a clue to something, but it doesn't tell us the whole answer. For example, I explained quite carefully why stopping transactions not only gives us a clear answer. So it's a clever rule of exception, and it's an analysis and an assessment Ecocrim makes of all the reports that come in – so it's an obligation for financial institutions to report, and it's very good that they do. Ecocrim analyses, and they use the information for a lot of things other than stopping alone. Ecocrim has been given increased resources. Ecocrim has never had more resources than they have today. We may all want more resources in a lot of areas, but we must have confidence that the Police Directorate and the Ecocrim prioritise the most important issues. The same applies to the police districts. You can think a lot about accommodation statistics, but it's hard to do because each case is very different, and there are probably different explanations. I have confidence that the police are doing their police duties, and then it is our responsibility to set framework conditions and have expectations of what matters should be prioritised. So financial crime is high on our priority list.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e585	I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice and Defence for a very good briefing and response to the inter-pellant Kaski. Economic crime is a growing challenge that needs to be taken seriously. The challenge image is well-lit in the latest Ecokrim threat assessment from 2018. There is no doubt that we are facing a very challenging development in this field of crime as well. Digitalisation and globalisation have given the police new opportunities, but not least new challenges. Today, economic crime is increasingly happening through the network and across borders. Developments show that the same criminals like to operate in several countries and that criminals from several countries cooperate. Investigations into issues of external disparity are often very complex and have led to extensive cooperation between governmental, police and national and international actors. Digitalisation makes it easier to operate with mass fraud, and Norwegian businesses and private individuals are attractive targets for foreign criminals. At the same time, Norwegian criminals are also linked to these international organised networks. It is important to clarify that most of the cases dealing with financial crime are dealt with in the police districts. Ecocrime investigates and leads to justice the major, complex and more serious cases dealing with financial crime, among others. issues of a principle nature in order to clarify legal issues or the level of penalties for dealing with similar issues in the police. Ecocrime also helps to a greater extent, as has been the case in many countries, police districts and the governmental powers of other countries in ongoing matters. The number of annual works in Økokrim has increased from 144 in 2014 to 166 in 2018. The budget has increased by 47 million. kr during the same period. The case handling period has in the period dropped and is well below the target number of Økokrim. Since its establishment in 1989, Økokrim has had a sentence of 85 p.m. In 2018, this was at 93 pst. It is also a good thing that the number of cases that have been dropped in the police districts has fallen sharply in recent years. The representative Kaski points out that in 2018, Økokrim took on only two new issues related to money laundering. The number of cases is normally between one and five per category under Økokrim. In the category of healing/whitewashing, the case number normally has a doctor on between one and two cases per year. However, it is worth noting that ten new cases were included in this very category in 2019. The creativity of the criminals seems to be infinite, and it may be demanding to keep up with these developments in the future. For this reason, close dialogue and knowledge sharing must continue to be a priority part of cooperation between private and public actors in the future. I am pleased that Ecokrim itself is drawing out how central the preventive work is, and I am pleased that the Council of State stresses this in its article here today. In the past as well as in the present period, the Government Party has taken a number of important steps to strengthen the fight against economic crime. In the years to come, there will be a continuous effort to follow up developments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e604	The fight against economic crime is very important. It is incredibly important for Norwegian companies that want to act seriously and within the laws and regulations in force. It is important for the community, which risks missing large tax revenues. It is important because economic crime is very often also linked to other crime and contributes to generating more crime in society. There is a need for a strong effort, a reinforced effort, against economic crime, and there is Ecocrime a very central body. Even I had the honour to be the case rapporteur when Stortinget dealt with the new Raising Act. In the new law on money laundering and its treatment, the aim was to step up efforts to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. One adopted a tightening of legislation in this area, and one also ensured that the consequences of breaches of the legislation, in terms of either fines or other reactions, were significantly greater than they had been before. Then it's important what kind of system we have to follow up. I note and fully agree with what the Council of State says, when, in her reply to the interpellant, she says that the reporting threshold should be low. But what is worrying is what is being reported, that the capacity to handle the reports that are coming is also too low, and that banks are experiencing different signals from the Financial Supervisory Authority and Ecocrime respectively. I know that the Financial Supervisory Authority is not responsible for the Council of State sitting here, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, but it is about how one in total manages to comply with the legislation that lies there – when the communication from the Financial Supervisory Authority to the banks is that one should have more and more reports, as far as possible reports, while the signal from the Ecocrim is that it should be less and less quality. The signals coming from the banks are serious, and I think the government should listen more closely to the serious signals coming from there. For banks, it is not just a matter of providing a report – and more and more reports – in order to have your backs off in the context of legislation such as money laundering and terrorist financing, so that you can demonstrate that a formal view is on the dry side. It's of course that when a provider of reports wants to have a dialogue, so that one can also have learning back, so that one in the next instance might be even better able to catch up when there's something that there's reason to take hold of. In addition, when a bank comes and reports related to a transaction, that bank does not necessarily see the whole picture. This is precisely why it is important that there is capacity, for example in Økokrim, to address matters properly. When it is reflected in today’s business life – earlier this year – from DNB’s former anti-whitewashing manager, Roar Østby, that there is no point in calling Økokrim, it is a serious danger signal from the person responsible for anti-whitewashing in Norway’s largest bank. This is not about just providing some reports, it is about having a dialogue, and it is about being able to discharge jointly the responsibilities that one has. Ecocrim operates not only, Ecocrim operates in cooperation with police and other agencies working against financial crime, but also with neighbouring activities, such as labour-life crime. That is why it is important to make sure that the police are strengthened. Yeah, a lot happens online, but a lot also happens in the real world. Therefore, it is important to have a local police officer who can work with the strong professional environments that you have, for example in Ecocrim. It is important to strengthen cooperation between labour regulators, petroleum regulators, hubs, tax havens, police and UDIs, as the Centre Party has promoted several times. It is also important to strengthen the economy of Ecocrim, which we have also called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e619	I would like to thank the representative Kaski for an important interpellation, and I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough response. The fight against economic crime is very important. As has already been mentioned, combating money laundering is also important in order to stop criminal activity and terrorist financing. Good practices and combating money laundering and economic crime are also very important for Norwegian businesses. Most Norwegian transactions abroad have to go through large international banks that have strict whitewashing practices. If Norway does not have good enough procedures, the international banks will refuse to accept certain types of transactions from Norway to abroad and this means, in the worst case, that Norwegian business cannot operate in these countries. Such stoppages have almost occurred in the past, and this may also happen in the future if Norway does not improve its anti-money laundering work. The work on money laundering has escalated sharply in recent years, and in recent years, the Financial Supervisory Authority has worked closely with business to clarify how to report on money laundering. The big banks now have huge departments working to stop money laundering, and a lot of resources are being used to report suspicious transactions to Ecocrim. Then it is important that Ecokrim also handle these matters satisfactorily. In December 2019, Økokrim launched an internal review of the Financial Intelligence Unit to see if work on money laundering could be improved. This is a very good initiative. It is pointed out that the unit may be better able to analyse suspicious transaction reports so that it can provide better information to the private reporters on the types of transactions they are looking for. Such analysis, together with the associated public-private cooperation body, is already available in the United Kingdom and is now also being launched in Sweden. I trust that Ecocrim will assess whether this is also an appropriate solution in Norway. The government takes money laundering very seriously, and in the future we will follow closely and improve this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e630	It is interesting to get into this debate, because it highlights some major structural challenges we face in the justice sector in Norway. Everyone agrees. When I hear the debate, everyone agrees on the challenges facing us. Everyone agrees that the fight against financial crime is important. Everyone agrees that we're losing money. Everyone agrees that financial crime undermines serious activity, and everyone also agrees that if we don't get it, we'll destroy trust in both the police and the authorities. Everyone agrees with this. We see that the crisis in Ecokrim, which has been reported for several years now – I am going to come back to it – merges into the range of examples from a justice sector that has been under considerable pressure in recent years with this government. We are constantly receiving reports, almost daily reports, about the police who are unable to do their job. We have reports from the judicial sector that show that they have huge challenges with cows and long hours of trial due to poor resources, and we also have a criminal service that is in a significant crisis, where significant human rights violations are reported. The crisis and alarms of Ecocrime are intertwined in this sequence. It's pretty old. Already in 2015, an alarm came from the then head of Trond Eirik Schea, who then told me that they did not have the opportunity to follow up the case, they had to drop the investigation. In particular, this is a matter where they are involved in demanding international investigations. The transocean case had to be dropped, laid down, because it was thought that there was no resources available to deal with such a large and demanding investigation. It was reported, at the time, that the actors that were under investigation had more resources available to defend themselves than a single Ecocrime had to set up. It is clear that, in this perspective, the Norwegian Ecocrime is becoming little and little in the work of significant, large, international actors. When I listen to this debate, it may be a little strange, because I hear that the Council of State and also the representatives of the government parties agree with the issue. At the same time, they list all the phenomenal things that Ecocrim also does, and they tell us about the results of Ecocrim, but I don't hear they take the concerns seriously. I do not hear that they have listened to the alarms that have come from the sector in recent years, and I hear no ambitions. I can't hear the ambitions coming out. I do not hear that the Minister of Justice is standing on the pulpit and says: this is so serious that in the time I have as Minister of Justice to come, I will do it and that and it to make this work stronger. I hear they're happy. That's how I sum this up. It is a similar report from the government parties and from the last Minister of Justice we have heard in the opposition when we have raised problems in the police, in courts and in criminal matters. All the alarms that have come from the justice sector’s own offices are met with some kind of satisfaction and lack of ambition. My advice now to the new Minister of Justice is that she sits down much, much more clearly and listens to the actors' own alarms and returns to the Stortinget with clearer ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e643	Let me first commend the representative Kaski for addressing what is an important issue in Stortinget. It's a topic that deserves more discussion, and that, as a society, is highly dependent on being able to handle in a good way. I agree with the description that if we fail in this area, there is something that could potentially undermine our model of society. What we are talking about is a threat that can actually threaten our trust-based democracy in the utmost consequence. That's why, as a well-functioning state, we have to keep this in check. All states have to do that. When you get over a certain point – if this problem gets too big – it becomes almost unmanageable. So this is very important, and I'll praise that it's taken up. So there's a lot that can be discussed when it comes to problem description. I share a lot of the description. What's not as easy to put your finger on are the obvious solutions that bring us on. And I'm going to agree with those who clearly express concern about the economic situation regarding the financing of the police. The police have been in an extensive process of conversion over time. Of course, this has been a challenge for the police. At the same time, attention may have been given to the police districts, and this may have been at the expense of the police special agencies. But it is also important to bear in mind that many of those who are promoting now and criticising – I kept saying – the government for this situation, are the same as in many cases in this room wanting to override the police, and who want to channel the money other ways. Because when we are in the judgements that have to be made as to the type of crime to be combated, it is very easy to make proposals that deal with detailed governance in some areas. The fight against child abuse is a very important matter, we all agree on that, and rape – efforts against it we all agree on. But it doesn't solve the totality. That's why I believe there is reason to be detained, at least to provide further detailed police management. The justice sector is actually in many ways plagued by a political will where you don't see the forest for just trees, because you want to control the details to show the power of action, and then hit the whole thing. I'll warn you against that. But I think there's a reason to look at the extent of the funding in terms of the police. There may be reason, I believe, to further strengthen the police in the time to come. So this is an obvious theme with organization. Have we properly organised ourselves in the justice sector in the field of ecocrime and the fight against economic crime? I don't have the answers to that, but I think – and I hope that the new Council of State will also look into it – that maybe we should set ourselves up in a different way, without having the fasit. What is at least important is that this issue be raised and that we look at the organisation more closely. And then in future budgets you have to meet what is the real economic need of the police, and then I mean a strengthening beyond the job you've been in, because the police as such have been in a difficult situation and need further funding. But as the representative, Eide, we all agree with the problem description and the need to do something – and the importance of this area. But when it comes to the solution, I haven't heard anyone today who has made other proposals in addition to the resource that we can discuss. I'm calling for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e656	I want to thank you for a good debate so far. A little bit of the background for me to file this very interpellation is the point of the last representative on the pulpit: we need to discuss this, because no one has the complete solutions to it. We in the opposition have for several years proposed concretely increased appropriations for Ecocrim, and this is about seeing the need for increased resources there. I can see that maybe more people here are also doing that. In my clear opinion, there is a need to strengthen them financially, I think we'll get a lot of money back there. It'll give rise to society if we do. There is also reason to look at the organisation, I believe. I have no suspicious opinions on the subject, but it is clear that when you see the results today, the detention rate out in the police districts, I think we have to take it seriously. I have no problem understanding that if you go out in the police districts, you have the choice to rescue some kids from a violent family or to investigate far-reaching financial crime, you choose the kids. That's the priority discussion I imagine that many people are in. How, then, can we take political action to safeguard and secure the far-reaching, very demanding, competence-intensive area of economic crime, which takes time, which requires food skills, but which must only be given priority? In Sweden, instead of leaving this to the police districts – as I understand it – they have what is the equivalent of Ecocrim, in the police districts. I don't know if that's a solution. But other countries have organized this in other ways. Then I hear that the representatives from the government parties make statements that this is being taken seriously. That's good. My intention with this interpellation is not to get such self-evident posts. I hope that the numbers we actually have are taken seriously in the government parties. I have already mentioned some figures and statistics, only until the tax haven, one has gone from giving 282 alerts in 2015 to 80 alerts in 2019. I mentioned the Riksadvokat's review, which was presented six months ago. It is quite clear that it is not satisfactory when one sees the police districts' follow-up to the Ecocrim reports. I hope that this will be taken seriously by the government and followed up by the Minister of Justice. I am absolutely sure that the opposition here at Stortinget is at least ready to be on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e668	I am pleased with the interpellation that the representative of Kaski has promoted. I am also pleased with the attention we have received from the media, in the sense that it arouses commitment to the work against economic crime, and that is important. We live in a world where crime is changing and in many ways is moving away from our daily environment. It gets more complicated, more digitized and more sophisticated. Then it's important to be able to deal with this properly, because this is a crime that affects our society harshly and differently than more traditional crime. And it's like when banks discover suspicious transactions, it's important that these are reported. I totally disagree with those who say there's no point in doing that. That's it. For the further management of these MT reports will vary, but there is no doubt that the reports are very important in the fight against police not only of financial crime but also of other criminal offences. Then, on our side, it is very important and desirable that we have the best possible cooperation with the private sector, because when it comes to combating economic crime, good interaction and dialogue between different actors, both public and private, are crucial. I heard the representative Eide say that he had not heard what I said. I'm not going to try to figure out why you haven't heard what I said, but what I tried to say was that we take this seriously, that we recognise the problem description, but that our answer can't be clear more money. Of course, money and resources are important, but we have said that we have increased appropriations, and we are now revising the strategy we are working on against money laundering and terrorist financing. Ecocrim has a thorough review of how they work. Ecocrime is more focused on contributing to the empowerment of police districts. That's how we want to cooperate even better with the private sector. So we've explained in several ways how we want to strengthen this work. It's important, because this is a crime that threatens both our business life, our values and our security.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e681	That is when the debate is on case No. Three done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e693	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e724	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5 and 6, by Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Björnar Moxnes on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit proposals for a ban on the hiring of labour from non-production establishments.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e751	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with immediate measures to prohibit all rentals from crew companies in the construction industry in the Oslo area and other press areas and industries where the use of manning companies is extensive.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to make the necessary changes to the rules and to propose the necessary appropriations to strengthen employment services as a public task.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e782	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to identify the level of rentals allocated to industries throughout the country and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to submit proposals that limit rents under the first paragraph of § 14-12 to cover only clean vicariates, cf. the second paragraph of point (b) of Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with measures to prevent enterprises from organising themselves, through the use of manning companies, away from the requirement of a maximum of two subcontractors in public contracts.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with measures to exclude from future public contracts actors that have repeatedly breached the rental rules.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e816	Case No. 3 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-13.ana.ud220e857	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
