ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e47	The President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during this meeting because of the need for infectious diseases. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President would also remind you that you don't have to sit in your own place, and that it's important to make sure that it's preferably about. two meters apart. It is also possible to follow the debate in your own office. It's also the case that now you can draw to debate by raising your hand, and to line up by showing the V-sign. The representatives of Willfred Nordlund, the Bears of Moxnes and Morten Stordalen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of Rogaland, Eirik Faret Sakariassen, now takes the seat. The representative, Sylvi Listhaug, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e74	On behalf of the representatives of Per-Willy Amundsen, Roy Steffensen, Bjørn Laabak and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on new instruments to combat crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e79	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Positions in cases No. 1 to 5 have not been available for 48 hours prior to treatment, cf. The Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 46, but the President will propose that the Stortinget nevertheless deal with matters. – There appears to be no objection to it, and it is deemed adopted. Furthermore, the President will state that, if necessary, there will be a pause in the meeting after the debate on case No. 3 has been completed, and that the meeting will continue beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e101	This time, too, it is appropriate to thank the members of the Committee for their smooth work. Let me also say that this case also shows that the Storting is able to implement quickly and effectively the laws that come from the government in a demanding time. There is an overall committee behind the vote, except in the case of § 3, where one of the parties has a different view. I guess they're explaining it. The Committee shares the view of the government that there may be situations in which there are formalities in existing legislation which may be difficult or inappropriate to comply with, and that there may therefore be grounds for exemption from legislation today, such as municipal law, party law or other laws, in order to avoid negative consequences that may arise. The Committee subscribes to the government’s assessments in general, but at one point the Committee has a different opinion from that of the government and, in the case of Section 2 of the above-mentioned law, the possibility of delegating powers to enter into inter-municipal cooperation. There is an overall committee that considers that the specific problems or negative consequences you are seeking to avoid are not well established. The Committee has noted that although hypothetical issues may exist, the principle was that the Municipal Council itself should enter into such cooperation, part of the discussion when we made a new municipal law a few years ago. It is a heavy-weight principle, and this, together with a system here in the country where we take the principle of generalist municipality, that is, that all municipalities should have the same tasks, means that the committee will not support the government in terms of section 2 but support the remaining paragraphs. With that I will recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e114	I agree with the rapporteur's presentation of this matter and am pleased that we have had a broad consensus. I felt that the government's invitation to also open up further access to the delegation for inter-municipal cooperation was a pre-war thinking in a situation where progress is fast, and where it might be a little difficult to predict what might come up. For us, it has not been a great matter to join in what was the position of the other parties on this. It's a balance, simply, of how far you're going to go in the delegation opportunity. The arrangements we now join should provide a good starting point for the needs we face. I also thank you for the cooperation, and I believe that in an exceptional situation, where we are doing rapid processing, it is important that we have a broad parliamentary basis and that there is broad agreement on what we are doing. It emphasizes the skill we are talking about today, and it gives the necessary confidence that working with exceptional laws and regulations actually works, and that it is perceived as reliable in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e123	I would also like to begin by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation in a demanding and hectic time and thanking the case-speaker for handling this matter well. When I first stand here, I also want to use the opportunity to thank Norwegian municipalities for the effort they put in by day. We have had a little better time than usual to attend the local government and chairmanship meeting online, and I see that it works very well in many municipalities to meet at Teams and Skype. It is nice to see that local democracy is functioning also in a demanding time, and I think it has been put to good use by Norwegian spokesmen, councillors and local government representatives in our country. The thing we're dealing with now is a law that's time-limited to make it easier for municipalities. It is largely a matter of time-limits that are being wasted in relation to the clearance of accounts and audit messages, and it also applies to the parties' clearances of accounts, which are granted a time-limit extension. There is a formulation that is very good with regard to the fact that many of those who are now taking extra work in the health care system, perhaps in a control selection, and after the law of the day it is impossible to sit in a control selection. There is now an exception: if you have a temporary job in a municipality to be in the labour force, you can still sit in the control selection in the municipality. Then, as the case-leader said, one point where the committee does not address its government's proposal, is simply to open up to delegate to a Presidency or county selection to be able to participate in inter-municipal cooperation. The Progress Party, in line with the rest of the Committee, disagrees with the Government's proposal because it is an important principle that the authority of a delegated local government should be removed from the local government, only the local government itself should do so. It becomes a mistake that a Presidency can give up power on behalf of a local government to participate in inter-municipal cooperation. The party to progress is fundamentally skeptical to the degree of intercommunal cooperation. We thought there was too much intercommunal cooperation in Norway. One should also look at municipal convergence as an alternative. Moreover, in a crisis situation, it is not necessary for one to move that authority to the Presidency and to be more able to develop new intercommunal cooperation that moves power and authority away from the local government. If this is to happen, the local government itself must do it. That's why we have a different view from the rest of the committee at it with a remote meeting. The Progress Party believes that the local government should also be operational in a crisis situation, and that the local government is the most important body. For this reason, we would like to make it more flexible for the local authority to be able to take multiple decisions using remote meetings and electronic procedures. There the government opens up that two thirds of a local government can say that it is okay for a case to be treated electronically, but one does not take the same logic on the decision – then it should be consulted in order to be able to say that a decision is valid with electronic processing. There, the Progress Party believes that one could have had the same logic – that a minority of one-third could block such a procedure, including the decision, because then the local government could be more operational. It makes it easier for a local government to be able to function even at such a time that it does not require 100 pst. co-ordinated. This means that during such treatment, a single local government representative or a member of the county council can block a large majority in a county council and local government's wish, and it seems that we are becoming too strict. Therefore, we have a suggestion that there are enough two-thirds of the number of people, including to be able to make a decision with electronic processing. So that's the difference, but in sum we're in the committee some, and we're facilitating that the municipalities get good tools in this demanding situation that they're in. Finally, I take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e142	The representative, Helge André Njåstad, then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e147	The outbreak of the coronavirus has put us all to the test – as a nation, as individuals, as a community. Fortunately, municipalities all over the country are now doing a huge job. Municipal staff are in charge of delivering good services from home offices. Teachers have thrown around to teach the students digitally, and many who work in the health and care services despite their own fear of standing in the front line in the fight against the virus. Although many communities now show their best interest, there is no doubt that there are challenging times for many municipalities. Expenditure is increasing, revenue is failing, and it is difficult to maintain operations and general procedures. For the government, it's important to be absolutely clear. The State shall provide the municipalities. We're going to have to set up financially, and we're going to have to set up by doing what we can to alleviate the situation we're in. The government has proposed to make some exceptions to the municipal law, the law on intermunicipal companies and the party law. The proposals are supported by the KS. At the request of the local government sector itself, we propose a certain increase in the possibility of delegating authority from the local government to the Presidency, if this is the local government's own wish. I record that the committee has a different view on this issue, and I do live with that. We also propose to postpone certain deadlines in the municipal law and the party law. Many have to re-prioritize their resources, and it is therefore natural that some processes take longer than usual. I am pleased that the Committee has joined the proposals. Furthermore, we have proposed to enable remote meetings in intercommunal companies under the IKS Act. This is well in line with the rules which now apply temporarily to elected bodies in the municipalities. This proposal is also supported by the Committee. We have also proposed some decoration in the rules on written handling of cases. The general rule must remain that elected bodies take their decisions in meetings, but right now we see that there may be a need for written proceedings and voting in some cases. I am therefore pleased that the Committee supports the proposal that it should be sufficient for two thirds to agree in written form in order to put this into practice. Let me then link some comments to the proposal of the Progress Party. I am sceptical about easing the unanimity requirement attached to the decision itself by written procedure. Where there may be two or more alternative proposals, there should be access to debate, and then written procedure is not appropriate. I therefore believe that a matter which is dealt with in writing should be adopted unanimously. Secondly, I do not see any reason to legislate that the matter must be dealt with in an ordinary meeting in the form of a remote meeting if at least one third vote against the proposal. When written processing is an alternative method of processing and the matter is urgent, it would normally not be desirable to wait for an ordinary meeting. In any event, if a majority wishes to have the matter dealt with in an ordinary meeting or a remote meeting, it may be required in accordance with the normal rules. I therefore believe that it must be up to the individual municipality to choose the form of treatment in such cases. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee and the Storting for the very rapid treatment of the proposition. It will enable the exceptions decided by the Storting to be put into effect very quickly, and will facilitate the demanding situation of many municipalities, without jeopardising important local democratic considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e175	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e180	In its speech, the Council of State just considered some of the reasons why written proceedings should be carried out with caution, namely the principle of a meeting – which ensures that Norwegian citizens have the opportunity to follow the debates and discussions of the City Council. By extension, the Council of State would have been able to say something about what legislation will now apply to written proceedings and remote meetings. Is it necessary for the municipality’s citizens to be able to follow them? The second is whether he has views on or advice to the municipalities about how they should organise this, so that even the municipalities, in a difficult time and with sometimes quite intrusive measures towards their own inhabitants, allow the inhabitants to follow the debate that goes on in the local government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e185	If I understand the question correctly, this is about how remote meetings should be concluded. It is up to each municipality to decide exactly how remote meetings are to be conducted, but it will be the ordinary rules for the winding-up of municipal board meetings that form the basis of remote meetings, except for the digital meeting. I feel that the municipalities that have put this into practice are doing a very good job, and that the issues to be decided on and the debates that should be held have been decided on in the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e190	The Council of State understood the question correctly, but only to be absolutely sure: is it the case that the Council of State believes that at remote meetings there should be an opportunity for the municipality's citizens to be able to follow that debate also digitally?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e195	It may be technically difficult to make it available in real time, but it is not technically difficult to make the debate available afterwards, so that the municipalities can actually follow what was said at the meeting. But here, there will often be some limitations on what can be done, for example. has a municipal board meeting to be concluded on Teams or other platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e201	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e220	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e227	The Committee has adopted a limited discussion procedure, so I shall mention, as the rapporteur and spokesperson of the Workers' Party, the main points of the same article. In this case, the Storting deals with proposals for amendments to three laws: the Social Services Act, the Social Security Act and the Social Security Act. The proposal was promoted by the Council of State on Friday 3 April 2020. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to express my great thanks to the Committee, the secretariat of the Committee and the Enlarged Bureau, and to the political leaders and staff of the Department for their hard work on the matter in time. At the same time, the entire Committee would like to thank all those currently on it, both in the public sector and in the private sector, for ensuring people's benefits and necessary services. In short, the proposals refer to a change in the Social Services Act, § 51a, as a follow-up to the decision of 16 March this year. The government is hereby authorised to provide for a temporary rule on exemption from the obligation to provide for economic benefits and the provisions on qualification programmes, including extensions, as for other interim benefits. It is also proposed to provide for the possibility of deferral of reimbursement in benefits from public security to municipalities. It is proposed to amend the Law on People's Rights to allow automated and unbureaucratic procedures in the pressing situation of Nav, which can ensure people's necessary lives as quickly as possible. The third amendment concerns the possibility of digital preparation for social security. A unanimous committee supports the government's proposal. We have some comments to point out that the need for privacy needs to be taken into account, and that the municipalities have to pay for what they might be shooting through social assistance as quickly as possible. Attached is a letter from the Workers' Party to the Council of State. We believe that there are still many groups at risk of falling outside the exceptional social welfare schemes. One example is people who have lost redundancy money and are now in quarantine, i.e. the AAP quarantine. We are concerned about what the Council of State refers to, that it could take a long time for people who have no income to receive ordinary applications and complaints to be dealt with. The Council of State has not yet had the capacity to answer the questions we have asked. We have a great deal of understanding of that and will come back to these questions in an appropriate way when we get an answer. The majority of the Committee proposes to extend the Social Services Act to those groups that are still at risk of falling outside the scope of the Directive. In addition, the Workers' Party promotes two minority proposals together with SV. With regard to the one proposal, we are a little surprised that an overall committee cannot help to assess increased sanctions against those who are exploiting the situation we are all currently facing, to enrich themselves by cheating on the new rules. I am addressing the minority proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e248	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e253	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Lise Christoffersen, who – as usual – also provides good and thorough work at short notice. I would also like to confirm her thanks to them outside the committee. The Committee is essentially in agreement with the proposals promoted by the Government of the Proposition, including the follow-up to the decisions taken by the Proposition. The most important thing we do in our work is to secure income for those who need it the most. At a time when so many experience job uncertainties, permitations and the well-being of the family, resources need to be concentrated on securing them. It also means those with a temporary income hedge related to activity requirements — they will not receive the offer of activity they have the right and obligation to implement. Therefore, the government has provided for the extension of decisions for the beneficiary of the benefits and exemptions from the activity requirements. We say we have to make demands, but we also have to set them. Now we show that of course we also set out when the requirements of activity cannot be fulfilled. This is, of course, due to exceptional efforts now being made in care and welfare settings, both locally and nationally, and in health services, in the context of the situation in which we live. Although there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on the need for income protection for those who need it the most, and also the priority of resources, we do not agree on everything. I don't think we're going to use an extraordinary situation where we're doing extraordinary actions in what hopefully becomes a limited period, to try to include everything and everyone into schemes that were meant for some particular groups. We know, for example. that for many beneficiaries of transitional social benefits, the income situation or the prospects for work or activity have not changed by the covid-19 pandemic. Then it is not obvious that we are going to extend the benefit period for everyone, but can look at it when we go forward. The same applies to the decision of the Storting to introduce an exemption for the needs test of financial support for freelancers and self-employed persons in the Social Services Act because many people were virtually banned from working overnight and are of course to be compensated for this. They were granted a specific derogation from the need test in the Act for the receipt of financial benefits, but it was not intended to eliminate requirements for needs testing for all groups. We also believe that the time is not now. In the case of recipients of sick pay, we also recognise the dilemma that many people do not receive the follow-up they are entitled to. However, it was also not uncommon for recipients who were waiting for health care to expire the maximum period for sick pay already before the pandemic. It will be difficult to differentiate between the recipients who could receive health care and be back in work because of the pandemic and who would not. Included in the proposal is also a proposal that EEA citizens who do not live in Norway should be allowed to apply for a daily allowance. The Labour Party and SV also suggest that more industries than agriculture should have access to foreign labour, which we think is a bit strange when more than 400,000 Norwegians have applied for a daily allowance. That's why I repeat what I said: the most important thing we do is income protection for those who need it the most. At a time when many experience job uncertainties, permissiveness and the well-being of the family, resources need to concentrate on these.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e270	I would like to thank case rapporteur Lise Christoffersen for a very solid job, once again. Nav – The State of Labour and Welfare – in the municipalities is incredibly important. It's incredibly important that it works well, that there are quick payments, and it's the responsibility of the Storting to facilitate this at a time when they're under an incredibly strong pressure. We must therefore have more rapid treatment, but at the same time it must not lead to the loss of rights that they would have had during normal treatment. Section 51a of the Social Services Act has been amended to remove activity requirements in the context of social assistance and the qualification programme, and one extends the time-limited benefits, for example: in the case of redundancy payments, by six months. In exceptional cases, social assistance can be simplified and essential. We've been told that it should be simplified in some cases, so that social affairs secure people's money to buy food and medicine as an extreme exception. Paragraphs 25 to 16 of the Law on Social Security provide for an extended legal basis for an automatic procedure, e.g. in connection with daily allowances, which are enormously demanding at these times. There, the Workers' Party and the Centre have made their own observations where a request to the Government proposes changes as soon as possible, so that the confidentiality of relevant register data both within and between offices is lifted, so as to facilitate, for example, the detection of abuses of the permitting arrangements. I would also like to stress that the changes we are making can lead to greater costs for municipalities. They shall be refunded in accordance with the ordinary rules, so that the municipalities do not become liable as a result of the changes we are making. Finally, on the understanding of reality: the Institute of Public Health has said that we need to calculate measures for 18 months, i.e. far in the autumn of 2021. So it'll take a long time to get society to function well. We have to ensure justice in our performances, and we have to ensure change, so that we get back into normal practice. Both employment services, schooling and education at local level will be very important, and I would encourage all rapporteurs to start this work immediately. Finally, the principle of daily allowances is important. It would be wrong to rock the principle of daily allowances, so that you can have both daily allowances and income-bearing work at the same time. It is a fundamental violation of the principle of day-to-day pay – a principle that we must maintain. We need to ensure that this can be checked, and we need to ensure that there are no exceptions that will allow everyone to claim the same exemptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e287	We are in a difficult time, and I want to start this article by saying a thousand thanks to all the staff in Nav, who are making an extraordinary effort in these days, and a thank you also to the employees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, who, through the weekend, spent time and energy to provide reassuring answers to what the committee had asked questions about. A little later today, we are going to grant a 50-billion measure package. kr to enterprises, in order to save jobs. It is important and good, and it will vote in favour. However, we must remember that one must also take action for those who are out of work. We have to be equally prepared to make life easier for lonely caregivers and others who receive benefits from Nav. It can't be that we're going to be very fussy about businesses, but we're going to turn on every penny in the case of single dependants. On 16 March this year, the Commission adopted the following decision: ‘The government is asked to ensure that fixed-term benefits, such as redundancy benefits, are extended for the period so that the non-clearance does not now lead to the reduction of the three-year allowance for the recipients.’; – It must be understood that it must also apply to the transitional aid. Lonely dependants deserve financial security for what is a very insecure time for all of us. And we on the SV side expect the government to follow up the Storting decision on this. There are several people who are not able to complete the course, who are not able to complete the activities that are a prerequisite for the benefit, and who must thus be allowed to extend the period in what we are now in. What this case also says about, is the importance of taking rapid decisions precisely to ensure income protection for those who need support through Nav, through both simplified and automated handling of the cases. It is good, but in this context it is important to bear in mind that all those who are entitled to social benefits should be cared for, that they should receive it, and that one should also follow closely what benefits are appropriate and what benefits have to be made to assess the individual’s situation. This is an important matter. It is important to provide income protection for those who do not have a job, and we must continue to work on that. This is a beginning, and the Storting must follow up on this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e305	Thank you to the spokesman and the rest of the committee for a thorough and, I say, quick work. Yesterday we got numbers that show that the reproduction rate is now 0.7. This is very good news, and it shows that the measures we have seen in the work have the work. Although it doesn't in any way mean that the crisis is over, it's the most important good news we've had in the last few weeks. In that case, it is appropriate to send a big thank you to all those who are good and follow the advice of the government and comply with the instructions that come. Measures that we have seen in our work come with a cost both economically and in our lives to individuals. But they're absolutely necessary in the situation we're in right now. Hence: a big thank you to all those who are on the job. Life and health is priority number one for all of us. Therefore, it is important to think of the extraordinary efforts being made in health care, in other care and welfare institutions, locally and nationally, in kindergartens and schools, now do. A great thank you to all of them both in the public and in the private sector as now through their work efforts to the community. Saga we treat, Prop. 72 L for 2019-2020, comes as a result of the pandemic and as a result of high workload at Nav. Therefore, there is a need for automatic, rapid and unbureaucratic decisions when exempting from activity requirements and extending decisions for beneficiaries under the social services law, the need to secure people who need income under the social security law and, in addition, simpler procedures for the preparation of proceedings before the Social Security Court. This is very important to ensure that people get what they need and have demands for at a time of great urgency. If automatic solutions are to be increased, it is important that data protection is maintained in a satisfactory manner, so that information is not compromised. It relates specifically to the temporary access to the further processing of personal data for analysis and access to the temporary possibility of downloading copies of the base with a scheme income from the tax haven. In this context, we have strong faith that the government will take good care of privacy in this work, and have received answers from the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, that this will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e318	The pandemic is hitting Norwegian society hard. For this reason, the government proposes the necessary measures to ensure income protection for vulnerable groups and to simplify the procedure in the labour and welfare movement. Conditions may be laid down for the award of financial benefits under the Social Services Act. For social assistance recipients under 30 years of age, municipalities have an obligation to impose conditions on activity unless there are serious reasons against it. However, the changes proposed by the government are subject to rules on exemption from the obligation to provide for economic benefits. For the qualification programme and the benefit, it is proposed to be able to derogate from the provisions of the Act on Conditions of Activity, including the extension of the period. It is important to ensure that beneficiaries of economic benefits and participants in the qualification programme continue to receive income during this difficult period. The government proposes the possibility to derogate from Section 26 of the Social Services Act – this in order to simplify current procedures when the municipality is to receive reimbursement from the state where financial benefits are used to advance future social security benefits. This may be necessary if there are a large number of such cases. In the context of the revised national budget, the government will return to the Stortinget with an overall assessment of the economic impact on the municipal sector of the virus outbreak. The labour and welfare community has had a huge increase in the access to the file. This means that there is a great deal of pressure on the department's case handlers and digital services. Rehabilitation of the labour and welfare centre, but without other necessary measures, it may take many months to deal with demands for living. We are therefore asking for a temporary legal basis for, inter alia, automatic processing and access to the use of personal data in the development and testing of IT systems in exceptional cases. The measures are necessary to ensure the performance of the persons concerned for the maintenance of life. All proceedings, including automated proceedings, shall comply with the applicable legal requirements for the proper conduct of proceedings. The measures shall relate to a limited period of time but are necessary to deal with the very difficult situation of the establishment. Draft regulations based on the proposed legislative amendments will be sent to a brief consultation before they enter into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e333	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e338	Many who are now in a hurry without income, contact us. We have good answers to someone, but not to everyone. Some of the requests concern hundreds of musicians and artists who stand completely without income. The fund for performers has 5 million. kr for distribution while applying for 12,5 million. kr. Self-employed and freelancers are now in the daily allowance scheme with 16 quarantine days. Nav reports arrears payment, so that payment for April will be made in May. Those in question are proposed payments in June. The majority today treats cash support for businesses. Some have individual entities that may benefit from cash support from March onwards. The requests now relate primarily to the time of payment, as it is a major problem for many to be completely without income from March to May, possibly until June. Can the Council of State respond to how those who are currently in an acute crisis can get emergency help, possibly an advance on the expected payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e346	I have a great deal of understanding that these are uncertain times for many, including for self-employed and freelancers. These are groups which are not covered by the normal day-to-day pay rules and which in this situation have a particularly high degree of uncertainty. The Government aims to establish a system of income security for self-employed and freelancers to cover up to 80 pst. of the loss of income, up to 6G. This is done to meet the intentions behind the Storting decision. The scheme is intended to be in place and the initial payments for April may be made in the first part of May. So there's nothing that now suggests that these have to wait until June to get paid. The government has had good dialogue with the social partners and the artist organisation Creo about the arrangement and the timeline. The government presented a proposal for a proposal for a decision on appropriations on Friday 3 April, and the details of the scheme will be returned to us in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e355	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I had sent the question in advance for sure. I have another question, which has not been sent in advance, but I am not waiting for a complete answer here and now, just that the Council of State will take it along in a way. This concerns the Intermunicipal Nav Office. When we dealt with the Nav message in the previous period, the majority wanted a merger, to larger, more robust Nav office. One of the means to achieve this was to remove the State manning guarantee. Some municipalities have responded to the call and created an intermunicipal Nav office, among others. in Hallingdal. But there is, in these times of travel restrictions, a challenge in terms of the availability of the state part of Nav. Is there a problem the government has assessed, or can the Council say anything if there is a problem you might think about?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e362	I appreciate very much that I was challenged on questions in advance, so I got time to respond in a proper way – in a situation I have not been in before. The question the representative asked now concerns a matter with which I see the challenges, not least because I have had experience as rapporteur. I want to bring this back, both to the Department and to the Council of State, and ask them to look at that challenge, because the state part is also becoming more important in the Nav offices' performance to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e369	I would like to thank the Council of State for the basic attitude of justice on which she is basing itself – that we now have to have the social protection of the people who are living most socially in society, in order to use that expression. People who need Nav's benefits are the most vulnerable to loss of income – which we are now up to – and the government has to show a liberal attitude towards these people. I would also like to thank you for the answer regarding the question that the municipalities will not get out of this badly, if the municipalities have to advance the expenses that the government would normally have. My question is about the relationship between daily and income-intensive work. Today we have a rule that says that one gets either a daily allowance or an income-bearing job. We can't break that principle. It is difficult to control if someone violates that principle and it is difficult to make specific arrangements for certain industries. What's the Council's comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e378	I guess this is a question of what was done on the agricultural side, especially. It was opened for this season, 2020, because the spring has come, and because the industry needed labour quickly. Then the ministry chose to use an existing parental scheme. If you were to use new schemes, it would require a very large capacity in Nav, so we chose to use the existing scheme. There was also a need to secure labour force for agriculture in particular in a short time. That was the reason for the service and the change made in the regulation, in consultation with employees’ organisations. This does not mean that the employee organisations always agree, but they were consulted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e385	Being a foster parent is something quite different than taking on paid work. foster parents have an allowance for their job, and it is a special scheme, so it is not correct – in my opinion – to include it as a basis for this. Food production is a societally critical sector. Everyone must have enough food and healthy food every day. Agriculture has been passed through. It is regulated that the interests of both consumers and farmers are taken into account in an overall societal context. In the Norwegian model we have the family farm. We've gotten more and more company farmers with their own employees, where the rate is so that you can hire people legally at NOK 123 per hour, if you're over 18, for seasonal work. Everyone knows that you can't live on such a payment. Those producing in this way gain a competitive advantage over family farming, which lives at the Norwegian level of costs. Doesn't the Council of State see that it's a problem if you don't raise agricultural wages?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e394	When it comes to agricultural wages, I think it's something different than what we're discussing right here and now, but I'm going to answer the question. The issue of collective agreements concerns the social partners, and I thought that Lundtigen also respected it. Nor is it just family farms that operate alone, or large groups that have seasonal workers. Large parts of agriculture do, but it's precisely because it's seasonal workers. They can't have a service all year round, and they depend on it in the period they're going to grow: in the spring and in the harvest. We see that there is also a need for seasonal workers in the slaughterhouse industry, among others. it concerns meat cutters. It is those parts of agriculture that especially need seasonal workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e401	What's today's theme is arrangements across Nav, where daily pay is one of the most important. Day payments have become an incredibly important insurance scheme, and we have a number of industries where payments in Norway are so low that there are a significant proportion of guest workers. Meat cutters are part of them. In Rogaland, the large livestock community, not a single butcher has been trained for many years. The reason is the pay and working conditions in this industry. So there's a need to upgrade the payment. It lies with the parties, but my question went on: Is it not the opinion of the Council of State that Community-critical work in agriculture must be provided, both in terms of tariffs and therefore also in relation to family farming, through prices and measures, which enable one to produce at the same time as a living with the Norwegian level of costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e408	I maintain that what we did with the daily allowance to ensure the labour force for the season 2020 – spring has come – was an important step in securing workers for Norwegian agriculture now. I can help discuss Norwegian agriculture in general and prices and wages in a different setting, but what we are dealing with today is a proposition where, for a period – in a special situation – we are making changes to ensure both the workers and the situation for those who need it most. We have. At the same time, we have changed day-care facilities to ensure the labour force of industries as important as agriculture and forestry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e413	This time shows that many people have to take on new tasks, and I think that's what Councillor Bollestad – I almost kept saying Larkin – did in an exemplary way. I would also like to take the opportunity to wish the Council of State for the real improvement of Røe Isaksen, and say that we look forward to having him back in this room. I would like to ask you a little bit about this with transitional aid, because it is an important part of this case for SV's part. It is related to whether or not to extend this period. I understand that the government will come back to me, but I think it is important – on the way into Easter – that someone gets some guarantees. Then I would simply like to ask the Council of State: will the government, and not least the Christian People's Party, ensure that those who receive transitional benefits are allowed to extend that benefit?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e420	I have a great deal of understanding of the need for transitional aid. There is a social security scheme that ensures income for single parents for a period of up to three years. It shall apply to a given number of months. It's a system that, on a general basis, is an important system, regardless of the situation we're in now, with the coronavirus. It is necessary for a time period. But whether to change and extend the time period for receiving transitional benefits, I believe I need to be further investigated than by standing here in the hall and saying something about it at short notice. Should this be necessary, more needs to be investigated than this. If so, the government – if we do – will come back to this in the revised version.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e426	Now there are a wide range of decisions that are being taken without much investigation, and a number of crisis decisions are being taken precisely because the time aspect is short and the need for clarification is great. The decision taken by the Stortinget on 16 March relating to fixed-term benefits is clear to SV that, although one of the benefits is not specifically mentioned in the Decision, it must also be interpreted as applying to the transitional aid. For the SV, it is an important message to be given to the government in this room that our understanding is that it is not limited only to the redundancy payments, but also to these types of benefits. Does the Council of State have an understanding of such an interpretation of this Decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e431	At least I understand the benefits mentioned in the decision of 16 March, because otherwise a lot of interpretations can be included in that decision. But with regard to the arrangement that the representative initially asks about, I think we need a larger investigation into whether it should be included or not. I will not answer yes or no to that now, and if we are going to do so, we have to come back to it in the revised version.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e436	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e455	Let me start by thanking the Quick Work Committee. It is important to show that the committees can get away quickly, and that we can also get them away quickly even if we are in a celebration. The configuration by the Committee has been consulted. The short-term liabilities of the Competition Act to be built up by the Competition Authority, where, in connection with different transactions, there are deadlines for intervention by the Competition Authority, e.g.: against a merger of two companies. The law also applies to changes in the composition of thecompetitioncomplainant. It is important, as the Committee also stresses in its comments, that this is an exceptional law. The main rule is that the current process rules will be applied as far as possible. The Covid-19 pandemic can give two shots. The one thing is in the form of sick leave among those added to the Competition Authority. The second is the economic situation, such as: may provide many mergers, acquisitions, halls, etc., which generate supervisory work. It is important that such transactions are also subject to the normal assessment of supervision. Paragraph 3, fourth paragraph, provides for an authorisation to provide additional provisions for competition law and this procedural law of jurisdiction. I want to underline that there must be a very high threshold to apply the rule of law. This has gone very fast, and there is a small error in the third paragraph of Section 3. There are two places for the regulation. It shall read ‘the law’. So I'm going to site Section 3, third term as it should be: ‘The extension of time limits applies both to matters relating to supervision at the time of entry into force of this Act and to matters notified during the period of application of the Act.’ The reason why this might have creeped in is that this law started out as a rule after the Korona Law, and that the ministry later wanted to put this forward as an own law – a decision I think is wise. And I mean Stortinget has shown that it is completely possible to have a quick procedure. With that correction in the law, it is also hopefully a law that will be the same both the department and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e473	It is good that the Business Committee has a sharp-cut lawyer from the University of Bergen as head and case rapporteur in this matter and who could discover the small error that came from the department. Now it's fixed, so when the end is good, everything is good. I very much appreciate the fact that the Stortinget deals with the proposal for a temporary law on exemptions from the procedural rules of the Competition Act in the light of the outbreak of covid-19 as quickly as the Stortinget now does. The outbreak of covid-19 may affect the monitoring of competition and the procedural capacity of thecomplainant, thereby also reducing their ability to carry out their important societal tasks. The outbreak of the virus is already creating a challenging work situation for the Competition Authority. The legislative proposal shall ensure that they are able to carry out their social tasks in the best possible way in the event of a high level of sick leave and an increase in the number of cases resulting from the covid-19 outbreak. The task of competition supervision is to verify that the proposed concentrations will not impede effective competition. The Competition Act therefore provides for the notification of proposed mergers and the time limits within which the Competition Surveillance Authority may prohibit or impose conditions on the mergers. Failure to comply with the time limits shall result in the loss of the possibility of action against the merger. The Covid-19 pandemic affects the capacity of the Competition Authority due to both the absence of disease and the absence of care. At the same time, they are likely to be given more urgency as a result of firms becoming in a difficult financial position. The availability of relevant information from both the parties and others may also be difficult. Therefore, there is reason to believe that the Competition Authority could need longer time-limits for the assessment of the action against concentrations in the situation in which we are now faced. Supervision must be able to give priority to urgency in such a situation and may result in them not being able to comply with the procedural deadlines in all cases. That is why the Government proposes a 15-day extension of the time limit for the handling of merger cases. I assume that the Competition Authority is trying as much as possible to comply with the general terms of the law. They must also consult and guide market actors in order to ensure the best possible predictability under the prevailing conditions. The competition notice examines complaints about the decisions and decisions of the Competition Surveillance Authority. It is likely that the subject of the competition complaint will also experience more sick leave and increased levels of action as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, and the government is therefore proposing exemptions from the rules on the composition of the contestants. Under the Competition Act, a minimum of three members shall be appointed in the case-by-case decision. The Government proposes that appeals be dealt with by an individual member if this does not preclude proper proceedings. Matters requiring both legal and economic competence may not be delegated. The law is proposed to have a limited duration because it will only be used to address challenges related to the covid-19 outbreak. No one can say for sure today how long the need for regulation will last, but the government has proposed a duration that is assumed to be sufficient to meet that need, as we see it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e496	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The size will then take a break pending that the setting is available in case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e517	The size of the store then goes to the handling of the matter No. Four and five. At the request of the Financial Committee, these matters will be dealt with together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e547	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a change of line after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e554	I'll try to keep it short. It has gradually become a tradition that we in the Financial Committee are constantly coming back with similar positions. What is important today is that the most important thing we do today is to vote for the cash support for the companies. The scheme will help those who are financially severely affected by the outbreak of the virus and help viable businesses to cope with the crisis. This is important in order to avoid unnecessary bankruptcy and to preserve jobs, so that people still have a job to do when we're going to take back their everyday lives. The compensation scheme shall take a broad approach. At the same time, individual establishments are not covered by this scheme. We therefore expect companies such as rehab companies, rehabilitation centres, etc. And they also get the help they need gradually. What has been important to us in this matter has been to put the payments in place as quickly as possible. There are thousands of companies that are talking about, tens of thousands of employees. Many look into a future of uncertainty and concern, and making sure that they now receive a cash payment that allows them to pay for their unavoidable fixed costs, is absolutely crucial. It's about things that decide whether they survive to the next month or not. It's about whether people have a job to go back to after the leave or not. It's also about companies that are built up over many years by a small family or by a small team, who have stood on and worked hard, and who see that everything has disappeared in a very short time. That's what this package is about. This package also hits those who are on their way into a personal crisis. The economic crisis, the health crisis for others – together, there will be a personal crisis for many of our fellow citizens. They should know that we are ready to take responsibility and put in place such arrangements. I am also very pleased that we have put in place some good measures for private occupational retirement provision and development of skills, and not least that we have also looked into those companies that, due to seasonal variations, meet completely different types of challenges than other companies. There are a number of things in the decisions, and I'm not going through everything. But I would like to emphasise again that this is primarily a rescue package. It is about companies that have unavoidable fixed costs, which have bills that stand and wait, can go bankrupt. It's about the fact that thousands of employees may not have a job to go back to. That's what this is all about. We decide this together with a great deal of trust in those who are going to get the money. They now have a social responsibility to manage these resources wisely, responsibly, so that when we come out on the other side of this crisis, these very companies are going to help rebuild society, give us the economic muscles again. So if anyone other than us sitting in the hall today has to solve a crisis, then we're going to have the economic muscles and the right toolbox to stand in it too. My message is the same as I said earlier today: If you can keep the wheels running, keep them going. If you can keep people in work, do it. But if there are challenges, you should know that the National Assembly is ready to gather around what comes from the government, and make proposals that both safeguard what the government has done, and that the Storting is leaning further forward from the situation we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e575	Thank you for allowing members of the Financial Committee to participate in these important debates. I want to start by thanking the Committee for a very good ability to try to gather on important issues in a demanding time, not least business. As the rapporteur said, many people now experience a time of crisis and feel that the bills are there, but the money to pay them is not there. There are also many employees associated with the companies that are now insecure in view of the future. So we're in a difficult time – for the companies, for the employees. There is no doubt that the grant scheme we are now establishing is in a hurry to get out alive. From the Workers' Party we have been very clear that some of the most important things we can do through this treatment are just to make sure that we are able to support the companies in this demanding time, while at the same time hitting the system in such a way as to create credibility around it in retrospect, if we are tested, which we can count on to be. There are significant grants to be paid to the enterprises. For individual companies, it's about large values, and for the community, tens of billions are going to be spent in months ahead just to keep the wheels going. In this regard, I have good faith that large parts of Norwegian business, business managers, business owners and employees manage this contribution from the community to keep the wheels running in a proper, good and clear way. That's what this is about. It's about saving jobs, saving businesses and making sure that we can get back to normal quickly once this crisis slows down. But in that picture, it is important for the Workers' Party to stress that we also enter into a social contract. When the community comes up with such significant resources, it is important that we ensure that they are used in a good way, that they are not exploited, that they do not exploit the situation for their own profits, etc. There's been good intrusions on that starting point. Many are undecided because it has come quickly, and I trust that the government is working all they can to get into this further, precisely because one does not want anyone to abuse the system. For us in the Workers' Party, it has been important to say that this is a situation where everyone has to contribute. We actually have expectations that business owners will also participate in this situation. If there are profits, dividends, etc., we expect one to also have in mind that one has received a contribution from the public and that one is withholding dividends. We could say that we really don't want those companies to make profits this year, because it's going to support and strengthen the company, secure the employees and build it further. We would actually go further than the position adds up to, but I still think we've got it into – a broad majority – in a very good way, in terms of both the ratio to bonuses for leaders and leadership wage development and dividends. I also think that, through the nomination and the majority, we have taken care of the employee's perspective at large, that in a situation that is extraordinary and demanding, and where we jointly provide funds for businesses, we should avoid unnecessary redundancies. There are quite clear messages from Stortinget, and I hope and expect the government to follow up the message in its contact with the business community. In this context, some companies have fallen out a little, and we have tried to focus our attention on the treatment of landfills. It is not least the travel businesses that may have first marked the pressure, in addition to those that were shut down by the authorities. Then we have had a situation related to package travel and guarantees – demanding situations in which liquidity is not present, but where compensation is to be paid. We have taken that into account in Stortinget, and I expect it to be followed up in a good way. Enterprises such as VTA companies, with permanent work, had fallen outside. We want from Stortinget to say very clearly that they should be included. We also want to be involved in non-profit-making/voluntary, which is making an effort for our well-being. We also want the media to be given attention at this demanding time. They have an incredibly important social task of informing us all about the situation in society, but the revenues have gone. This is a good thing, but now it's also important that we get the country the last things and make sure that this becomes a good social contract, even when we look back at this in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e598	Will Aasland address the Labour Party's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e603	Yes, I would like to address those proposals, and then I would like to inform you that we are voting in favour of proposal No. Four and nine.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e608	The representative of Terje Aasland then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e613	I want to start by thanking you for a good cooperation in the committee. This time we also reached a broad consensus, and that's good. Now there are many companies out there that have waited a long time for this package, and that have bills that are ready to be paid, but lack revenues that have made them capable of doing so. Some of them will be relieved today; others will be disappointed. The most important thing from the point of view of the Progress Party was to ensure that this system is now in operation from 17 April. That's why we've been totally deterred from being involved in changes that could put it at risk, simply because we know there's now about time for a lot of businesses, and that the money has to go out. Then it is important to stress that adjustments should be considered when looking at the outcome of this scheme. For example, you have to: look at the seasonally based businesses, which we don't see getting well enough out of this – those who make huge money over a short period of time, and who we have to look at in order to cover up better than you do with this scheme. There are also others who don't get out of this well enough, which the government has to work on. The vast majority of businesses are serious, real and good, with people who are standing by day and night now to save their life's work. We are happy to offer them, and I believe it is important that we gather on this scheme. But then we know that in the wake of such noise schemes from the public, the unprofessional also appear – the criminals, the criminals, the ones who are trying to exploit the arrangements that we are now making. It is important that we prevent abuse, it is important that we detect fraud, and that is why the Progress Party has today made a proposal to be dealt with later in the Storting, where we, among other things, have. look at abolishing the obligation of professional secrecy between different institutions, so that we can get some of those who are currently cheating. We hear, among other things: that permitting rules are exploited by people at work even if they are on leave or that they are called to work. It is important for the legitimacy of these schemes to be reduced. As a result, the efforts of the a-krim centres and the tax haven to carry out ex post controls become incredibly important. Then it's important to be as transparent as possible, and there too I'm glad that there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget that the Norwegian people will have good access to information about who will be given these tax money. It can also help to discipline and ensure that you are reluctant to try to lure money that you do not have a right to, and it also provides an opportunity for the public to do so. It has also been a very important matter for the Progress Party in these negotiations once again to raise the oil industry, which is the most important industry we have, and the industry that actually allows us to sit in this room and now use hundreds of billions of dollars without having to raise large loans to cover the costs. We know that there are major challenges there too, we know that the supplier industry now depends on us being able to quickly deliver proposals and decisions that help to stimulate investment rather than delay it, as we see so far. Shipyards can pass through the end, and this is important for example: Kværner Stord, for Kværner Verdal and for thousands of jobs around the whole country, which depends on us now working fast. It's easier to start up again a flower shop than a yard – if they're shut down, there's little reason to think they'll open again. In connection with the proposition we discussed in the previous case, the government would come back to revision. Now they have to come as quickly as possible and before being revised, and it's simply because this is urgent. I am also pleased that we got something in place for the travel industry, first of all that they have got a breathing room to repay money, from two weeks to three months. In the meantime, Stortinget expects very clearly that we need to put in place a solution that can help save this industry, too, which now has tough times. So thank you -- it's a step on the way, but we have a lot of work to do to lead Norway through this crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e634	This is the fifth round we have in the staging room in a very short time that everyone has been dealing with the same: how do people secure, how secure businesses, and how secure the country? That's what we've been working together about. Of course, it's very difficult, very demanding, but at the bottom you know a community so strong that we try to work together across previous dividing lines and find common solutions. It seems to me to be a strength for our people's rule that we can now, in the round after the round, to lift those we are set to serve, to help people. I want to come up with some thoughts first. The compensation mechanism we are adopting today costs approx. 20 B.C.E. kr per month. And it will last for two and a half months: 50 billion. kr. To make a direct comparison, when one looks at the income flow to Norway last year, it was from the oil and gas sector of 20 billion. kr per month. What we're using this month is almost similar to what we had in the oil and gas sector last year. As far as cash payments to a group are concerned, I think we have never adopted such an increase before as a parliament, as a magnification. Of course we have the people's fear, which is 440 billion. kr, but there are rights built up through generations to pensions, sick pay and that kind of income insurance for many, but to increase the cash payment to a group of the population, our businesses, I don't think the Storting has ever made such a large single decision as what we are doing today. It's quick to forget when we're in the middle of the debate, but I don't think there's any such decision – with 50 billion. kr. Once I'm in the big numbers, if you read Innst. 233 S, you'll see that for what's called automatic stabilisers -- that's a terrible expression, but it's about increasing social security payments, failing tax revenue and all the other outcomes we get from the crisis we're facing -- the costs are higher than the additional package. According to the Ministry of Finance's calculations, the cost of that is 60 billion. kr. So that's really big numbers we're talking about right now. But when we bring that additional package, the Central Party and I believe that what was completely unimaginable three weeks ago is now absolutely necessary to save the companies and save as many jobs as possible. Then I am pleased, even though we agree on the main idea and that the government has done a very good basic work and anchored the main idea well in the Stortinget in advance, that we get an improvement in travel businesses – or not just travel businesses, but seasonal businesses. I think it is very important that we get an improvement on seasonal business. As the scheme was, it would not have taken up enough of the challenges that seasonal businesses are facing. With the way we're going to do it now, by substituting costs in line with the compilation principle, companies that have costs throughout the year, but income a small part of the year, for example. March-April, may combine some of the costs in the months in which they have high revenues. It is very, very important to help those enterprises that may have almost the entire income base in January, February, March and April and lose the two most important months of the year. That's why I'm glad we've got it across the board. It is also important to say that it is independent of company form. It goes back to the whole setting that we're trying to make these compensation schemes independent of whether it's an AS or an individual enterprise. It must be an undertaking as such. I want to talk about two things at the end that I think it is important to look at. We have in the proposition, and also in the setting, the opening of adjustments in the arrangement. One of the challenges of the scheme is that if you, for example: leasing equipment versus writing it off has been more profitable with leasing. It is important to consider in the future whether adjustments to the scheme can be made, whether or not to equalise the way in which operational resources have been obtained. I understand that it has been very difficult to get it done, and that it is an unintended intention, but if it is possible to make such changes in the future that one does not favour one way of getting equipment in front of another, it is the same idea that we have when it comes to not favoring one form of company in front of another. I think it's important to go into it. So it's an improvement I think it's sad that we didn't get it, and it's that you have such a high proportion. For all the smallest enterprises, the scheme does not become relevant. We have 100,000 companies in Norway with between one and four employees, and when there is such a high proportion, the typical truck owner, the taxi driver, all small businesses around Norway, will benefit little or no from the scheme. I hope the government can think about whether it is possible to make the scheme better for the smallest companies. I think it's a pity that the Storting couldn't join that too. Finally, I would like to put forward proposal No. Three from the Center Party and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e653	At that time, the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum promoted the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e658	I'll start by taking up our suggestions, first of all. This is a huge scheme, and it is perhaps one of the most extensive compensation schemes across Europe, both in terms of flooring and roofing, and in terms of low ownership. At the same time she doesn't hit everyone, and she also hits many bad ones. What effect this could have on the economic structure of the country when the smoke goes away is something we have to think carefully about. This means that we need to review changes, and then we need to make additions, because unless we make choices at system level that can have major consequences for the structure of this country's economy. Therefore, this is only the start of a journey that must be built in-progress. For us in SV, it has not been an option not to support this compensation scheme, simply because there are several thousand workplaces at stake, which are now facing a crisis, and not least out of respect for all the hundreds of thousands of workplaces that are also at stake. This is a compensation scheme that is completely in place and needs to be developed. But – and it’s a big one here: it’s a lot of money, and it’s very important that the money goes to the goal they’re supposed to go to, that’s to save businesses and secure jobs. They shall not go to exchanges other than regular pay, which do not go to investments, etc. We have proposed that. There should be no fade out of the purpose here. It's supposed to be saving. This should be a rescue package, a crisis package – not a gift package for those who are not in the situation, who do not have a weak economy. Through this process, we have made several proposals – and with what we stand before today. We have a concrete proposal on the table that does not stand in the way of technical implementation. There is nothing wrong with the state aid rules, their implementation, and other countries. For example, Sweden has limits on exchange, and we have done so before, in previous crises. Under the financial crisis, a claim was made through loans — not direct grants, but through loans. But there's not a multiple in the country willing to do, to have limits. We are thus in danger of this being replaced, for bonuses, for rents, for companies that are not in this critical situation. For us, it's completely incomprehensible that a not better suited to the community's means than that. It's the same way when it applies to cancellations. The purpose of this law, when one also has good permitting arrangements that allow us to finance most of the permitting costs for those who are outlawed, is that instead of people being laid off, they should be outlawed. Because it may be that some people benefit from, abuse, the coronary crisis to subdue – in a situation that leads to the return of those people when things start to calm down again – in terms of temporary additions, rents, etc. Those who do not support our proposals today have taken on a very great responsibility for a situation that may arise, where a few people tend to spend a lot of money on their own pockets, creating a whole new situation in the world of work. They have taken on a great responsibility in the situation we are now facing. So to the proposals that we otherwise support: we have a lot of understanding that this framework is especially for those activities that have less turnover. We have looked at several examples that are critical, especially for small operators, multi-syllery, etc., and we therefore support proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and Red. We also support the proposal No. 12-16, 20, 21 and 23. When it comes to the desire of the Progress Party to change the oil tax regime, almost overnight, we are deeply opposed to it, and we don't want to rush that system, as one gets the impression in the setting – that one should do this quickly. Measures aimed at the supplier industry are extremely important, but we also need to make proper assessments of this, before we just do something suddenly from the Storting in time of crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e676	The representative, Torgair Knag Fylkesnes, then addressed the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e681	I also want to start this time by stressing the seriousness of the situation we're in. Yesterday, the government provided figures from the Institute of Public Health, indicating that the measures put in place by the State are currently functioning as intended and with the protection of life and health. This shows that people in Norway have taken responsibility. In order not to lose control in the future, it is important that we continue to do what we can to avoid getting infected and infecting others with the coronary virus. This means that large parts of the business world are going to experience no or much less activity for a while to come. Then I'm very happy that there's a broad majority joining the government's compensation scheme. It is important that this has become a simple and efficient system. I think there is every reason to draw attention to, and also to thank, those who have helped to put this scheme in place, both LO, NHO, Works and SMB Norway, and to get an agreement that has provided a basis, so that the government could present a case so quickly. It is important that this has become a trust-based scheme. On the left, I would like to say that the Norwegian business community deserves that trust. This is a broad scheme aimed at achieving the broad range of both small and medium-sized enterprises. It is people who have created their own job and also employed others, and who follow the laws and regulations that we have. Then, of course, we have to have control mechanisms, an openness around the system, which allows us to keep track of and avoid exploiting the system. The system is simple. It is effective and it is important that it is now implemented as quickly as possible, as the Committee as a whole has stressed. At the same time, there are some areas that we've been looking at in particular. It has been mentioned in the past that we have had special attention to seasonal enterprises. Here we have found good solutions especially for companies that have their season now, whether it's ski centres or others. We find arrangements. I would also like to emphasise that this scheme lasts until 1 June. We also have a lot of companies that depend on the summer season, and then we have to look at how we can best take care of them. We have to follow up on whether the scheme should be continued or whether we have to take other measures. I'm glad we also have a decision for travel life. There I think we have arrangements, but they don't meet well enough. It is important that the government follow up on the decisions for travel life and come back with proposals, which may be targeted. Although most of the businesses hit by this are either obliged to shut down or have significant reductions in turnover, there are some companies that are still in a situation where we want them to maintain the activity. Then I think especially about the media companies, which have large reductions in advertising revenue. We want journalists still to be journalists and not to be outlawed. I'm glad that we now, including here, have a consensus that supports that the government will come back with a case that includes that situation, which can support media companies, so that journalists can do their job. Then I cannot avoid mentioning something that no one has mentioned, and it is that the government has also made sure that we get a basic offer for trains with this case. We had the airlines up last week. Now we also ensure a basic offer for trains. It's important that we start looking forward. We now have another crisis package to take care of business in these coming months, and then it's how we're going to get out of this, rebuilding business, but also achieving the other policy objectives, whether it's reducing greenhouse gas emissions or making business more varied and less oil dependent.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e702	Let me start by thanking the Committee for very good cooperation and thanking the Chair of the Committee and the Chair for a good job of getting this going. I feel that this has been very constructive rounds in a time when we need it more than ever. When the committee began its work on this proposition, the number of unemployed showed that 12 pst. by workers in Norway had no job to attend in the morning. When we deal with this thing in the storeroom now, it's going to be 15 pst. Action in the economic situation in Norway is now urgent. Never has it been said so many times that there will be work on bombs in Norwegian politics. I think that's because there's actually a work done that goes at a speed we haven't seen before, and it's important that we set up with the money, because the option is much more expensive in the long term. It's good, and it's good that one is able to cope so much with such an important position as it does in this debate. People are going to have a job to get up to in the morning, and then we need at this stage that we are now, to help the businesses that are viable, to get through this phase. We have put forward a system in which it is an overarching goal that it should be easy to use and difficult to abuse. The Committee has agreed that the most important thing here is to make sure that payments can come as quickly as possible, April 17th is the goal, so that one gets money for the companies that need to pay their bills. During the treatment, there have been many things that have been addressed, such as: How to ensure a more equitable system for companies that have more expenditure in some parts of the season, while revenue comes very seasonally, how media businesses are not adequately caught, and how a need for a special scheme there. In addition, it has a point of reference for some companies that have an ideal purpose, or are organized in such a way that they fall outside this scheme, but that have a large translation and people who are being permitted today, from rehabilitation centres or other places. One is forced to come back to these, and there is now a clear order in the appeal decisions that Stortinget has taken. I am pleased, and I am very proud that we have worked well and have managed to work across the board with the proposals that are now here. Towards the end I will take a correction of a proposal. There's one thing that's missing a little bit, and we need to get corrected in the previous setting. Int. 233 S for 2019 – 2020 is currently under II: ‘non-governmental airports required to remain open’. It does not really cover the Committee's discussions; it also applies to non-governmental airports which do not comply with the requirement to keep them open. Difor the proposal shall be replaced by the following: ‘The decision requests the Government as soon as possible, and by the end of April at the latest, to come back with a proposal to ensure the continued operation of non-governmental airports.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e725	Everyone in this room is now fighting to help people and businesses in crisis, and so we are standing together about a lot here today. The fact that companies currently struggling are helped to pay their fixed costs is crucial to saving the family economy for many business owners and employees. The compensation scheme provides for a simple application procedure that is largely based on self-reporting. It is absolutely imperative, we also believe, to have the money paid quickly enough, but it also opens up for abuse. For us in the Green Party, it is difficult to understand why the majority of the population does not support our demand for full transparency about who receives compensation. I see that the majority recognizes the need for transparency and has been inspired by our input. Openness is easy to compare, but it can be impractical, and that's why it's also easy to deprioritize. The starting point is whether the information is published continuously in a searchable database, or whether it remains in a hard-to-reach Excel form at the tax office, which a journalist can most readily ask for long after the award. It would have been quite possible for the Stortinget to require – as we suggest – a searchable database of information on real owners, which companies are already required to report under the Racism Act, along with the tax and level of compensation allocated to the company. We also propose to ask the government to ensure that multinationals receiving aid publish reports showing the entire corporate structure. It should be a matter of course today. Let it be clear: nothing of this crashes with privacy, it crashes with the political will. A week ago, the Greens fought for students who lost their jobs to be offered more than increased student loans. Finally, students who have received support for this semester are offered an additional loan of NOK 26 000, one third of which can be converted into scholarships. The problem is that tens of thousands of students are no longer entitled to support and therefore fall completely out of the scheme. Many are adults and have family and children. These are currently completely without study support, daily allowance or social support if they are permitted. We are therefore asking the government to find a solution for this group. The crisis – and indeed all crises – strikes those who are the most vulnerable, the hardest. Among them we now find children with special needs for care, who need to be in kindergarten or SFO for different reasons. For example, Bufdir has warned that families who already have difficulties may experience the risk of infectious diseases as an additional burden and that the risk of family violence is increasing. Hospitals now have unusually few children with unexplained bruises. The State Children's House is afraid of under-reporting. When teachers, fellow students, comrades, or nursery workers no longer see the children exposed, fewer report. There are also many children who are not subjected to violence, but who need a pedagogical organization and an offer that they cannot get at home. Persons with low income and low education are overrepresented among the new unemployed in the context of the crisis. For these, paying parental leave for the SFO and kindergarten can become a burden that keeps the kids at home. That is why we are warning against demanding parental pay from 14 April for children with special needs for care, and we are proposing to ask the government to reverse the decision. We do not get a majority for that, but we are pleased that the majority of the population have listened to us and at least now ask for more measures for the vulnerable children. In all humility, I think this would have gone by the finance committee's house if we hadn't taken it up. And it shows why it's so important not just to care about what gives the majority of the Storting, but to listen to all parties, all parties, in the treatment of the crisis package. Indeed, the parties focus differently in hectic crisis package negotiations. Finally, we are also promoting a loose proposal today asking the government to ensure that municipalities who want to keep open on Sundays and holidays this Easter. Such a situation is now, shops should be able to keep open in the Passover in order to avoid congestion and spread of infection. This applies not least in the cities, where there are going to be unusually many people this Easter. I hope to support that proposal. Finally, I would like to thank you for your efforts, both to colleagues in the Stortinget and to the members of the Government, and hope that everyone can get one or two days off at Easter, even if it is short. By doing so, I take up the suggestions I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e744	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e749	It is important that urgent support is given to serious companies currently in crisis. Red is to cover losses for hairdressers, tattooers, serious outdoor actors and others who have been forced to shut down. We must avoid a race of bankruptcies, but it is the workplaces that need crisis packages – not the owners. So we can't give away 50 billion. of Community funds to business owners without simultaneously imposing requirements. When the government presented the arrangement last Thursday, LO leader Gabrielsen said: We have to remember that back-testing is done on the basis of the conditions we set. Therefore, it is important that we are as clear and clear as possible in the precise conditions on which the back-testing is to be carried out. Today, Stortinget could have agreed conditions for the 50 billion. kr to the enterprises – conditions that would prevent private enrichment, which would prevent a gift package for property barons, and would prevent the honey pot from opening up to organized criminals in our working life. Regrettably, a large majority of people now have only non-obligatory expectations over clear requirements. That is why the Greens are opposed to the government's proposals on important points and promote their own alternative proposals. Firstly, we propose that companies not be able to use state subsidies to pay dividends to their owners. You take dividends now, you obviously don't need emergency aid from the state. Secondly, Red proposes that crisis grants should benefit the individual hotel, or the individual hairdressing salon, which is struggling – not end up with the owners anymore in the group and become a profit to them. Thirdly, we demand that companies that receive support be able to demonstrate that they comply with Norwegian and industrial wage and working conditions. We have to stop being so naive. Long before this coronary crisis, the situation was that organised criminals have grown big in industries such as construction, transport, car care, outdoors and property. These criminal actors are already taking billions of dollars out of Norway, so now the honey pot is opened to them. A minimum should be that the Storting supports our demand for Norwegian pay and working conditions and the requirement that we refuse automatic payment of money to companies that have a high number of payment claims and that have tax debts, payroll debts to employees, expenses to the tax collector or enforcement decisions. Fourthly, we believe that in order to receive payment from companies that are now receiving state aid, the farms have to cut their rent. The government now believes that when the state covers up to 90 pst. of the firm’s fixed costs, it will prevent the lessors from demanding full rent — but that is the opposite. Last week it was revealed that Christian Ringnes withdraws discounts on the rent to the companies, because, as he says, the companies are now going to cover the rent of the house by the state – up to 80-90 pst. - Then they'll take the rest of them themselves. We also know that a lot of commercial property in Norway is owned by international purchasing funds. They probably care a little about appeals from Stortinget. They must be sent an invoice. Therefore, Stortinget must demand a cut in the rent. Over the last few weeks, Stortinget has adopted many major and important crisis packages. At each crossroads, the attempt to make demands has been voted down. There are requirements for wealthy shareholders not to charge dividends, bank demands to reduce their interest rates quickly and for lessors to reduce their rent. At the same time, we see that the massive lay-offs hit the low pay hardest: shopkeepers, cleaners, sellers, waiters. We risk going out of this economic crisis with the elite gaining the profit, while the community has once again taken the losses. It doesn't want red. We are in favour of crisis packages that ensure jobs – not private enrichment of Community funds And yes, transparency and control are important, but little helps when clear demands are not made to get the money – demands that can be controlled and sanctioned. The size has to set requirements when we're about to distribute 50 billion. kr of Community funds. That is why I take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e775	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e780	The Korona crisis affects us all. In one month, Norway has turned its head around. Right now the Easter mountain was to be full of happy Norwegians on skis, the order books were to be full and the Nav offices were to be quiet. Instead, many are now fighting their toughest fight ever to save their life's work, to save their jobs and to save the economy. I would like to thank the Stortinget and the Financial Committee for a quick and good treatment of the compensation scheme. This is a system designed to help enterprises that are normally healthy and viable but are now severely affected by the outbreak of the virus and struggling to make the ends meet. Many of these companies have posted employees and went from full operation to zero operations almost overnight, but they still have some expenses that do not disappear. Rent, insurance, electricity and accounting are examples of such costs. By compensating for part of the loss of income, we increase the possibility that these companies will be able to pay the bills they cannot avoid. Then we avoid unnecessary bankruptcy, and we counteract redundancies. We secure jobs. It will be enormously important the day when society will return to a normal everyday life. In the work on this scheme, we have prioritised two things. First of all, we've given priority to getting the money out quickly rather than millimeters of justice. It's urgent for companies to get help. The system is designed at express speed. It's not safe we hit all companies and industries optimally on the first attempt. Among other things, the Financial Committee has now addressed a problem related to seasonal holdings. The Committee on Budgets has done a good job there, and we are going to get good arrangements there. We have also announced that we will put a foot in the ground after the first payment in April to see if there is a need to adjust something at some limits to ensure further need for control. However, through good cooperation with NHO, Works, LO, Finance Norway and SMB Norway, we are confident that with the facility we have now proposed, the scheme will be of great help to the majority of those who need it. Secondly, the scheme shall be easy to use and difficult to abuse. For those companies in need of help, help should be provided quickly. But the companies that are trying to cheat or cheat should know that they will be checked. The tax will check the information against existing data. The applicant will have to document the figures afterwards. The information will be checked, and fraud or fraud will be punished. And yes, we will facilitate transparency. The size will also address other important measures today – measures that help to close gaps for individuals, businesses and industries that have fallen between the other measures we have taken for various reasons – in order to allow private sector permits to continue as members of the pension scheme, in order to enable municipalities to maintain good services for citizens through the crisis, and in order, inter alia, to: industry and the horse-sports industry shall be given better liquidity through the crisis. The measures the Stortinge treats today are vital help to businesses today. That's why the money has to come fast. Avoiding unnecessary bankruptcies and redundancies now is about what kind of society we're going to have when we return to our everyday lives – that we have a job to go to, a diverse and sustainable business life, and that Norway is equipped to meet the future better, stronger and more resilient than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e797	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e802	I agree with a lot of what the Council of State said – it's urgent to take good action for business now, because there's a demanding time out there. We really agree on the whole arrangement for compensation, but there's one theme that's been pretty central, and that's dividends. We have worked on it continuously throughout the weekend, and not least the Ministry of Finance and others have contributed to trying to find solutions. One of the things you have discussed is the possibility of doing so that what you receive from government grants through this scheme can be deducted from the company's final dividend base. We have been checked out that it is technically possible; it will not interfere with the payment process. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State support the principle that it would be wise to have such a system in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e809	Firstly, I would like to say that I am pleased with the cooperation that has been between government and expansion and between the parties in Stortinget. I'm glad that all the parties make it clear that when the state comes in with such support, moderation is to be shown in both management salaries, bonuses and dividends. But when that's said, we also have to remember that these are companies that might have lost their entire turnover during the night. Then it's not about a dividend party, it's about surviving. That's the basis. Then my concern about the proposal that the Workers' Party is making, is that the rules of the game are not clear before you apply, and I think that is important in this system. The proposal by the Labour Party would not have been clear. I think it has to be clear. Secondly, it is also difficult to understand what a possible dividend is used for. I see that there has also been a premise that several parties have gone into.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e815	I also do not believe in any dividend fixing here for the companies that receive support. But it's okay to be leading was and be clear that one, where one receives compensation or subsidies, initially spends the money to strengthen the company – leave the money in the company, breed in the company, make the company strong enough to make adjustments in the time to come, and possibly meet business cycles that had to happen again. In our proposal we have really been very careful, because we say: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of whether dividends in enterprises receiving fixed-cost aid can be limited by a temporary amendment to the Share Act and the General Share Act, where the amount of the aid is deducted before reaching the final dividend base, e.g. by including ‘receivable compensation’ in the second subparagraph, and by returning therewith in a reasonable time before the second payment of the aid.’;» Will the Council of State take an initiative to evaluate such a proposal politically, because there is an interest in knowing whether there is indeed a good basis for involving any of the grants, such as: for later occasions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e825	I have stated that I do not recommend such a solution, firstly because I believe that the rules of the game must be clear before companies apply. These are companies that, together with their employees, are now fighting their lives to make the job survive. If you were to go into this, it had to be incorporated into company law, and it couldn't be a premise for the application. There will also be situations — and we have many of them — where the dividends are paid to the owner, who is also the Executive Director. I also believe that someone who runs the company and owns the company – it may be a small craftsmanship company – must be able to take out a dividend that means that you have a salary and also the possibility to pay taxes. But when it is said: all the parties agree that we should fight fraud and fraud, nor is it the time for neither great dividends, bonuses, nor increased executive fees. Now is the time for hard work, and you stand together to get through this crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e832	We in the Center Party think it would have been wise if the government had been willing to make such an assessment as a large part of the opposition has been behind, with regard to exactly what it is about dividends. In general, however, with regard to this compensation scheme, I feel that we have a broad consensus and have had a good dialogue with the government about all the necessary and comprehensive measures, which it has also been important to put in place quickly. I am also pleased with the improvements that we jointly contribute to, including: in the case of seasonal holdings. The Committee has stressed, and the government has also been concerned about it, that they consider that, in principle, equal support should be given regardless of how a company has chosen to organise itself. Such a social benefit scheme, for example, is a demanding one, whether it has chosen to organise with different types of companies – whether it is an owner, a tenant or a lessor. How does the Council of State think that you can continue to work on that issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e839	Let me first repeat that the cooperation that has been across the parties has been very important. I have also noticed that the Centre Party – like several other parties – has been very solution-oriented. Several of the questions that have now been raised in the setting have come from the opposition, and it shows that this cooperation is valuable. If there's one thing that's absolutely certain, it's that when you're going to make such a big deal in such a short time, there'll be new problems. Leasing has been introduced as a problem issue, concerns have been raised about companies with large seasonal variations, such as alpine facilities, and there will be more guaranteed. That's also the background because we've said that there are some questions we need to work on, and we've also opened up to be able to adjust if we find solutions. So here we have to continue the good cooperation, and I just want to repeat that I believe that the rules of the game have to be clear before you start, also for those who go in and apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e846	I thank you for the answer and for looking into the issues related to ownership of the counter rental and leasing. There are different ways of organising operations. Some have, for example: the engine park of a property company and rentals to an operating company, while others have placed it in a common company, and they come out very differently. So I'm very happy that the Council of State says that there are issues that you will look at further. But now it's clear that it's important to work until April 17, so that you get the payments in the first round in place. There's another issue that we've also been concerned about, and that's how this turns out for small businesses. With regard to the excess of NOK 10 000, for an enterprise with tens of millions of fixed costs, it will have nothing to say. But for small businesses, many of which we have around Norway, it is clear that it will be well noticed. Is there something that you will also consider looking at in the further process?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e853	Let me just first say that in record time we will also have a technical solution in place – I don't think there has ever been a technical solution to such a format in such a short time, and that's a risk. We're working under an enormous time pressure. We do it because it's about jobs, and we see the pain in the companies, both managers, owners and employees. The fact that there is a technical solution means that the criteria to be introduced must be objective. They must also be verifiable, and it must not be too complicated. So to the question of this excess: well, now we mean that there should be a difference between those that are shut down by the state and the others. Those who are shut down by the state have no excess, and they get covered up to 90 pst. The others get NOK 10,000 and get NOK 80. of the unavoidable fixed costs. It is a system that is better than the Danish one, and it is negotiated also with small and medium-sized enterprises and enterprises. We've agreed on that sum, and I think it's fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e860	We'll start with some liquor! It's been a good collaboration on the first packages. There's still a lot of agreement about the main steps, but especially the social dimension of this package, there's a lot of discussion around, where I think it would be wise for the government party to extend even further to ensure the legitimacy of the policies that are being pursued. When we have worked on proposals for exchanges and cancellations, we have looked at what has stood in the way of it, and when it has come to fruition, it has to be political, that is, it has legitimacy. So my question to the Council of State is simply: in the context of previous crises, such as the financial crisis, the state made demands. Then there was a loan for which a claim was made, but not an exchange. What makes one in this situation, when one actually provides cash support, not want to assess that kind of measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e871	The social dimension around this -- what is it? Yeah, it's the workplaces. That's it, most importantly; there's no other reason we're going in with a cash support model. I agree – it was Tryful Battle Force Vedum who said it – that five weeks ago no one could imagine proposing anything like this, but now we are doing it, because we see that it's about the workplaces. So that's the central one. When we don't accept any ban on cancellations, it's because I think it would lead to even more bankruptcies, which could hit even more. Unfortunately, some companies now have to dismantle something to save the other jobs and save the company for the future. There is a lot you would like to see differently if you had had better time, but you work here in a very scarce time window, and then it is important that the requirements you set must be clear initially. In that case, you had to have a total dividend ban. We believe that this would have been wrong, because then someone who owns a company, a craftsman's company, could not take dividends for their own wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e878	What is now on the table is that this is being tackled by the fact that full ordinary pay through exchange is good, that investment related to self-employment is good, and that societal purposes are good. And this is the back check that's going to give us answers. It was simply to meet the counter-arguments that have come through this discussion, among other things. from the Council of State, but not even with such a handshake, the government has wanted to introduce that kind of restriction. I've had a feeling that one thought it's kind of like talking about exchange in the situation we're in right now. I totally agree with that. It's frequent exchange, because it's not a reality for many; it's very few who will be in a situation where there will be talk of exchange. But then there is someone who has a strong economy at the same time as they have a large turnover, and this opens up so that they can come into a very positive situation and use a crisis package for private profit. The question is, once again, why does it not want to move in that direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e885	The companies we're talking about are companies that have largely lost turnover overnight. That's why this isn't a problem. But it could be a company that has gone very well, that has lost its turnover, and that is on the brink of bankruptcy now. Hopefully, this is a three-month scheme, and then we're back in a situation where we don't need cash support for businesses. The company is doing so very well in October/November. Would it have been very wrong if dividends were paid to invest in other jobs? I really don't think so. I agree that we should show moderation. It's a broad majority – it's probably all parties – that express a very clear expectation of it, and I'm absolutely sure that the great majority is going to be right there. Then we're going to be clear, everyone, that if there's someone who cheats, someone who cheats, someone who enriches himself on this, it's not that right, because now we're in a job that everyone has to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e892	There is no one who understands the reasonableness of what large farmers are going to be able to make a major contribution to the crisis money given to businesses by not contributing to the hard work by lowering the rent, which everyone in the Stortinget wants them to do. Everyone wants them to contribute to the hard work by cutting the rent. So we know from the last week that Ringnes, who is a big property owner, is withdrawing the discounts that he had promised to the companies, because, as he himself said, now the state is going to take a lot of the bills for the companies. I wonder what the council and the government will do if Storting's expectations that they will contribute don't come true. If foreign purchase funds are not on the table, as we ask, and Rings and others do not cut the rent: what will the government do to ensure that they contribute and not just enrich these packages, which were to go to companies and not to the landlords?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e898	Now there are a lot of landlords that also set up. Let's at least give some credit to those who contribute. I sometimes get the impression, when the representative Moxnes takes the word, that anyone who does business, who owns business, is out to enrich himself. It's not like that. The vast majority of the farmers do, and a lot of farm animals do, too. Then I totally agree that we have to expect everyone to do it. It may not be that there is only one party, the employees, or only the owners or the landlords – everyone has to contribute to this. It is also a prerequisite for the legitimacy of the arrangements, and therefore we attach great importance to transparency in this regard. We've arranged for those who are shut down by the state to cover 90 pst. of the fixed, avoidable costs, the other 80 pst. In this there is clearly a clear expectation that everyone will have to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e905	There was no answer to the question, what would the Council of State do if the Storting did not expect all farm animals to contribute? It is very good that some have announced that they will cut the rent, that they will contribute – it is very good. For them, it is very good that not the less dubious can sneak away from the hard work by dropping the rent, that global buying-in funds with commercial property in Norway do not contribute as other serious players on the property side in Norway do. For their part, it is very good if the Storting can decide that everyone should contribute, and that not only those who are nice boys and girls, do so, but that everyone actually makes a real contribution by cutting off the rent for companies that are now struggling violently to serve firm, inevitable costs. So I ask again, what in concrete terms will the government do if the Storting's expectation of renting is not met by all? What will the Council of State, then, be doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e910	I have a very clear expectation that they will come up. It is not that the Storting can only decide that the rent will go down. These are agreements concluded between private parties. They must also be respected by the Storting and predictability of all parties. The fact that we have introduced these criteria for support, which means that not everyone is fully covered, means that even those who rent out have to set up. They depend on it being a rental market, in other words they have companies that survive this crisis, which is the largest we've had since World War II.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e917	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e922	For business, it's usually about making money. And well, that's because it's the money that's earned over many years, which we're enjoying now that the welfare community has to go a little out of the ordinary. But right now, for many, it's not primarily about making money; right now it's about surviving. The scheme the size now joins is emergency aid for our companies. It's helping viable businesses get through this difficult time we're now in. The scheme proposes to cover part of the fixed and unavoidable costs, and from then on the Stortinget has adopted other crisis packages that benefit many – including companies benefiting from this compensation scheme. It means a lot to many companies that they are now getting help with the fixed costs. It means a lot that the state takes a large part of the permitting costs they have, and that means a lot that they can now get help to cover fixed costs, such as: rent. In the past, the Storting has adopted other crisis packages, including: loan schemes and a separate crisis package for entrepreneurs and growers. As far as this compensation scheme is concerned, it has been important for the government to have a broad system — a system that includes many and different industries. We have chosen that strategy in front of going from industry to industry and making arrangements adapted to individual industries. It has also been an important goal for us to create a system that is designed in such a way that the money can be paid out as quickly as possible. Everyone is affected by this epidemic in some way, but business is affected in different ways and has different prospects. The representative of Aasland mentioned travel life. Travel life marked the coronary epidemic early and is probably one of the industries that will be most affected by this. Even if we were to lift strict travel restrictions in Norway, other parts of the world would like to continue to hold onto their own. I also think that we have at least changed our travel habits for some time to come, which means that this is a business where it's not just to turn on a switch and then they're up and going again as before. The most important measure we are now taking, and to which the Storting agrees, is to postpone the repayment period. Now it is in three months instead of the fourteen days that originally applied. The size has given the government the task of following up the travel industry, and we will do that. It is not just the national measures that affect our business. The international measures and the way this virus affects the rest of the world also affect our business. Industry notices reduced demand worldwide, and they note the low oil price that is now. We also have other measures that benefit the industry, which I talked about: loan arrangements, the bond market. Here are several packages that help our business in this situation. Some industries are required to shut down, e.g. hairdressers. There are many who in these days notice the aftergrowth that they would like to start up again. It has been a goal for the government that those who have been ordered by the government to close down will have a greater share of their costs covered. They can also get a higher coverage and a smaller excess. It's been important to the government. This compensation scheme is not a perfect arrangement. It's a rough mask arrangement. It doesn't hit everyone as well. It has been important for us to be open about it. First, we're open to adjustments along the way, and second, we're open to the fact that the reason why that's the case is that it's been important to get something that's easy to apply for, and where we can easily get money out quickly. I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who has contributed. We have had good cooperation with business organisations. We have had a good cooperation with LO and Finans Norway. I know there has also been a good cooperation in Stortinget to put in place this which is really emergency aid to our companies, so that they can survive the Easter and a little longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e943	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e948	There is no doubt that it is demanding to be Minister of Industry in these days. The Minister of Industry himself pointed out the one industry that is in a special situation. If they have not been closed by decision, many have at least been removed through travel councils given their entire income base, namely travel life. There has been a rather long way now – in two and a half weeks – which is uncertain for travel life, and how to make sure they get the best out of it. A proposal has now been made on the travel guarantee fund, but that is not enough. It also does not reveal those who may be in the greatest crisis right now, the package travel companies, who are in an extremely demanding liquid situation. So one has done it a little bit in time, and that's good, but for the three months there has to be a solution, because we can't expect the package travel companies to be able to pay anything in three months' time, in relation to what is the solution here now, if this ball is on. How does the Council of State see a solution for these package travel companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e955	It is true that this is not a dream situation to be Minister of Industry. At the same time, we don't have the worst; it's all those who are now fighting for their business, all those who are fighting for the jobs, and all those who are now at home worrying about whether they have a job to go back to. That's why the job that the government and the Storting have done is so important, just to give it the emergency aid to these companies, so that they can survive this most difficult time. But the travel industry is in a special situation, both because they marked it quickly, and because the time perspective is quite long. The most important thing we've got in place now is this postponement. This postponement gives first of all these package tour operators a little breathing space, and it also gives us the opportunity to assess the situation, to go in and look at these companies and consider what action we might be able to take in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e962	I understand that the Minister of Industry cannot give a concrete answer now. But my clear call is, of course, that the Minister of Industry in the three months until the amounts are due, or for them to pay this, spends time well and finds a solution that makes the liquid situation for the package travel companies not become such that we get a number of bankruptcies within the travel life. Then my question is: can the Council of State guarantee that she works closely with travel life and find a solution for the package travel companies in good time before three months is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e969	First of all, I can assure the representative that we are working closely today and have good dialogue with the organisations related to travel life, and we want to continue with that. The size has also given us some assignments in the future that we should consider – this is now mentioned, among other things. Danish scheme. Several different measures have been outlined, and we will spend time in the future to assess the situation and to assess different solutions. What these packages up to now, i.e. today's compensation scheme, help with, is to cover fixed costs. The challenge to travel is also a lack of income, usually over a longer period of time. I can't stand here now and say what solution we can come up with, I can't give any guarantees here and now, but I can promise that we will do what the Storting has asked us: to evaluate different solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e974	The councils now mentioned what we're going in with, as emergency help for the companies. And that's emergency help. It's for companies -- many of them -- that are on the brink of bankruptcy. We need to address the diversity of businesses in Norway, both small businesses and larger businesses. It is difficult to know how the scheme will turn out in many areas, but in some contexts it is quite obvious how it will turn out, for example, with the excess of NOK 10000. In Norway, we have 100,000 enterprises with one to four employees. There's a lot of people running for themselves. It could be shops, it could be taxi drivers. A taxi driver who loses 85 pst. of its revenues and has NOK 17 000 per month in so-called unavoidable fixed costs, are left with zero in emergency aid. How does the Council of State think this could affect the industrial structure in Norway, and diversity, with the mechanism that this crisis package has received?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e982	That is a good question for the representative. One thing is how this one crisis package is going to affect the structure of our business. How the coronary infection, covid-19, is going to affect the structure of our business, nobody knows the answer to now. We need to look forward. That it's a tough period now, that it's going to be tough, and that it's going to be difficult times in the future – it's certain. We are now presenting one crisis package. I remind you that we have previously come with other crisis packages – also for small entrepreneurs and growing businesses. We have also been open that we need to look at how it turns on, and that it is opening for adjustments. Those required by the State to close down do not have the proportion to which the representative refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e987	I am fully aware that those who are required to close down do not have that proportion, but if we look at the others, it is such that the large businesses will have a cost coverage of up to 80 pst., while for the smallest businesses, the proportion of 10 000 kroner will go hard. They could be at risk for a coverage of 20-30 pst, or if they come below the limit: no coverage at all. Does the Council of State consider this to be reasonable, or will it consider re-viewing it, so that it can take care of those who try to keep the wheels running but have small businesses for which they are personally responsible for the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e992	In the situation we're in now, and at this point, I don't think it's wise to reject any of the world's things. Because there's something we've figured out, it's that we can take action that a few weeks ago we didn't think it was likely that we could take. At the same time, we have now introduced a number of crisis packages, and it is necessary to lift a little glance and see how this turns out. Of course, we're going to follow up on our business, in different industries, the benefits they have of the decisions we've made, but I'm going to add that the government and also the Storing have done will mean a lot too many, especially in terms of aid to costs. But they're still without income, so it's emergency help we give through this compensation scheme. It is not to compensate for lost income; it is only to help with the fixed costs that are incurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e997	A unanimous increase wanted to secure the income of apprentices through a precise decision from the end of March, namely that the government should ‘establish a system ensuring apprentices who lose their apprenticeship in connection with the outbreak of the virus a guarantee of income at the level of the apprentice’. What has been launched by the government is something quite different. It's getting full apprentice pay up to 1.5 G, i.e. 150 000 kroner, and above that, there is 62.4 p.m., so in sum, far lower income for apprentices than a unanimous increase fixed in a completely unambiguous decision just weeks ago. We now know that complying with the decision will cost 43 million. kr more in a package of 50 billion. kr. Will the government follow the decision of the Great Government and its wording, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1002	The government has presented many proposals and the Stortinget has taken many decisions in recent weeks. There are several things that the government is going to follow up, and we are, of course, working on the assignments that Stortinget has given us. The next major milestone, at least, is the revision of the national budget. Several of the request decisions issued by Stortinget will also apply to this package that is coming. Then we're asked to evaluate concrete solutions. We'll do that, we'll get back to the Storing with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1007	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1014	Case No. 4 and the proposal of the C II Committee on Non-State Airports, where, in the debate, Tore Storehaug has clarified that there is an error in the vote and that ‘which is required to be kept open’ shall be withdrawn from the proposal. That's good, because it made it a little bit more precise. However, in its setting, in the comments, the Committee uses the term ‘airfields required to be kept open’. I am absolutely sure that the Stortinget with its decision on 16 March was committed to finding a scheme for the non-governmental airports which had regular services when the virus outbreak came. If I'm not wrong, it's four airports – four airports where the state and Avinor do not operate. It concerns Haugesund Airport, TORP Sandefjord Airport, Stord Lufthamn and Ørland Airport. Unless some of the members of the Financial Committee have a different opinion from what I have now said – in that case there is reason to get some further clarification – there must be an understanding that the Stortinget is now making use of as a follow-up to the request decision of 16 March, and that is what the government is going to come back to the Stortinget with a system for by the end of April, that is, all the non-state airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1021	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1032	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1044	During the debate Helge André Njåstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Temporary Act on Derogation from the Municipal Law, the IKS Act and the Party Act, Section 3 is replaced by the following: [[measures to address the consequences of covid-19]] § 3 Extended access to written proceedings A body may deal with a case by written procedure under the second paragraph of Section 11-8 of the Municipal Law unless at least 1/3 of the members of the body oppose the decision after written procedure. A body may also take decisions by written procedure under the second paragraph of Section 11-8 of the Municipal Law, unless at least 1/3 of the members of the body vote against the proposal. If a minority of at least 1/3 of its members decides that a proposal is not adopted, the body must deal with the matter at a remote ordinary meeting in which normal rules on majority voting are determined.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1140	It is first voted on Section 3. The Group of the Greens/European Progressive Democrats and the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance has announced subsidiary support for the vote. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1157	It is contested by Sections 1 to 2 and 4 to 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1167	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1177	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1189	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider a temporary derogation allowing the State pension fund to reduce the housing loan rate and to introduce measures for persons currently holding two mortgages.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a robust control regime to capture unprofessional and criminal employers who abuse the new rules, including for permitting, and to assess the need for increased penalties in the form of increased penalties, increased possibilities for fines and the withdrawal of unlawful profits in such cases.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1300	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1310	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1334	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1353	The President refers to the debate, where an incursion under the third paragraph of Section 3 of the recommendation was made. The words ‘the regulation’ shall be replaced by ‘the law’ shall be replaced by ‘two places in the text’. This will be corrected in the final setting. The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1438	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1448	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1460	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens and Reds proposal No 4, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA The President refers to the debate and change in the Committee's position under C II. The setting now sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and by the end of April at the latest, to make a proposal on how non-governmental airports can be ensured further operations.’ There is a vote on proposal No. 4. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government immediately to ensure that the county councillors grant food shops and pharmacies exemptions from the general rule of keeping closed on Sundays and public holidays, where municipalities apply for this in order to reduce the risk of infection from the corona virus. It also means that the decision that Oslo will not be granted a derogation from the Holiday Peace Act for food shops and pharmacies prior to the forthcoming Easter is to be converted in such a way that the food shops and pharmacies wishing to be open at Easter can do so." The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e1491	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, by the Greens/Reds/Greens/EFA Group. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 2543 Temporary social security schemes for self-employed, freelance and apprentices 71 Remuneration for apprentices, allocation of estimates, by [[New]] 293,000,000 ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government not to require parental payment for childcare and SFO services for children with special needs, until 30 June 2020.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking municipalities to compensate for additional costs related to providing children with special care needs with an offer of childcare or SFO space during the coronary crisis, and to return to Stortinget with a proposal for such compensation.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2486	The Green and Red Environmental Party has now announced subsidized aid under A I, Chapter 2543, item 71.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2503	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Terje Aasland, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 2, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 3, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Center Party and Red proposal No 4, by Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party the proposals No 5-8, by Mr Knag Fylkesnes, on behalf of the Left Party of Socialism and the Green Party of the Environment the proposals No 9 and 10, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 11, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 12-14, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 15–23, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17-19 and 22, from Red. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Act on a temporary grant scheme for large-scale enterprises is amended as follows: Paragraph 3 of the new fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following: The Ministry shall provide for a detailed definition of the scope, including that the counterparty shall grant a reduction in rentals of between 10 to 30 per cent in order to receive payment from undertakings which have received grants under this scheme.» [[4]] Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Act on a temporary grant scheme for large-scale enterprises is amended as follows: The first paragraph of Section 4 is replaced by the following: Entities referred to in Section 3 which fulfil the following conditions may receive grants: [[1]] The company has employees. This condition does not apply to individual and partnerships in which the income of the undertaking is held or at least one of the principal income of the participants During the period in which grants are sought, the entity has had a large turnover Legal activities of the undertaking The entity is not in bankruptcy proceedings The entity adheres to Norwegian and industrial standards for HMS, wages and working conditions The entity undertakes not to draw grants in the form of dividends or ownership income for the 2019 and 2020 financial years, unless grants are repaid first.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for lessors to grant a certain proportion of reduced rent in order to receive payments from enterprises receiving aid under the compensation scheme.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Act on a temporary grant scheme for large-scale enterprises is amended as follows: the third paragraph of Section 12 is replaced by the following: Administrative penalty shall be calculated by 50 or 100 per cent of the grant received by the beneficiary without justification.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2598	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20 and 23, from Red. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the benefit of the aid paid to the company concerned and not to be transferred to holding companies or by any other means to enrich the owner, in addition to any ordinary remuneration.’;» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government requests a special statement from the auditor that the aid received by the companies is used for the purpose of the scheme and as described in the application.’;» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2622	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a public and searchable database to be updated continuously, providing information on which enterprises receive aid through the compensation scheme and on how much they have received.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2639	There is a vote on proposal No. 16 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the companies to demonstrate, on request, that they comply with Norwegian and industrial standards for HMS, wages and working conditions.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2657	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the characteristics of the company applying for unprofessional operations result in the company being automatically refused approval, e.g. whether the company has a high number of claims for payment, tax payables, compensation of employees, expenses to the commemorative or enforcement decisions.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2674	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that multinationals receiving aid must publish country-by-country reports showing their entire corporate structure, including the distribution of income and costs in this structure, including subsidiaries in so-called third-country legal acts.’; Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider using risk-based spot checks on book supervision of undertakings that have received high amounts in compensation.’;» The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2698	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a public and searchable database in which information relating to which undertakings receiving aid under the compensation scheme, how much they have received and the real owners of the enterprises are incorporated.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2715	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for further work to ensure that determined costs for related parties and businesses in the same group are not covered by the temporary compensation scheme for enterprises in the context of the coronary virus crisis.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2732	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to make an undertaking, through a self-declaration of receipt of the means of compensation, not to cancel any employees during the period during which compensation is received.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2747	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to make a commitment, through a self-declaration of receipt of the means of compensation, not to make a profit for the years 2020 and 2021, unless dividends are used for investments in its own activities, grants for social purposes or where dividends are paid as ordinary wages, that is to say, no higher than the average for the last two years.’;» The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2765	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-8, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow closely the development of the grant of compensation and to use the powers actively in the event that the compensation scheme leads to a disproportionate share of the aid being rented and, if necessary, to use the provisions of the House Rental Act to regulate directly.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further work to ensure that cash transfers to the companies from the temporary compensation scheme for enterprises in the context of the coronavirus crisis are not diverted from the country.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further work to ensure that the temporary compensation scheme for enterprises in the context of the coronavirus crisis is limited to companies that have parent companies in low tax countries, for example as defined in the EU blacklist and the Tax DG’s list of low tax countries.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to make available a searchable public overview containing at least information on which undertakings have received aid and how much each enterprise has received.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2799	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make a commitment, through a self-declaration of receipt of the means of compensation, not to increase the remuneration of directors or directors in excess of the average wage increase.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2816	There is a vote on proposal No. Three from the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The government requests the removal of the proportion of NOK 10000 of fixed costs in the compensation scheme.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2833	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the compensation scheme for enterprises in the context of the coronary virus crisis to fall to the serious part of working life, inter alia, by requiring enterprises to carry out work mainly through permanent staff and that enterprises do not have final decisions or judicial decisions against themselves relating to, for example, labour crime, social dumping or non-residential offences’. Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e2850	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of whether dividends in enterprises receiving fixed-cost aid can be limited by a temporary amendment to the Share Act and the General Share Act, where the amount of the aid is deducted before reaching the final dividend base, e.g. by including ‘receivable compensation’ in the second subparagraph and by returning therewith in a reasonable time before the second payment of the aid’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e3210	It is first voted on A §§ 3 and 4. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e3224	The rest of A and B, C, D, E and F add up. Red has now notified subsidiary aid to Section A 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e3236	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e3246	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. It's over G VII. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e3262	The remainder of G, I to VI is voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e3273	Before concluding the vote, the President will request the consent of the Storting to the administration be authorised to correct any legal errors before the second reading of the legislative acts on the current map. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-07.ana.ud461e3312	Thus, today's map has been processed. The President will wish everyone a really good Easter and reminds us that the first meeting after Easter is Tuesday, April 14, at 2.30 p.m. 12th@item: inlistbox Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
