ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e30	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Applications for sick leave are submitted by the Socialist Left Party Group to the representative Solfrid Lerbreck from 3 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Eirik Faret Sakariassen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e52	Eirik Faret Zechariah is present and will take the seat. The representative, Siv Jensen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e59	On behalf of the big business representatives Trond Helleland, Terje Breivik, Hans Fredrik Gruvan and myself, I would like to make a proposal to raise the requirement for permanent residence permits in Norway. I ask that this be dealt with in accordance with § 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e66	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e71	I want to make a proposal on behalf of Jan Bøhler, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Nicholas Wilkinson, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Bjørn Moxnes, Une Bastholm and myself to develop Ullevål hospitals and secure the inhabitants of Oslo with enough capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e76	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e108	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: the allocated speaking time will be limited to 4 hours and 45 minutes, exclusive lines and three-minute speeches, and the speaking time will be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 80 minutes, right 70 minutes, the progress party 45 minutes, the centre party 30 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 20 minutes, left 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 15 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Red Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the course of the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from the main speakers of the party groups, parliamentary leaders and members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e115	Let me begin with, on behalf of the government parties, by thanking the negotiating delegation of the Progress Party for good and tough negotiations. For the eighth time, our parties have agreed on the way forward for Norway. In the meantime, we have also negotiated an important agreement on strong economic measures for business. I would also like to thank the members of the Committee for constructive dialogue and cooperation in the Committee's internal work on the budget. And I would also like to thank the presidency, the administration and our own committee secretariat for patience and organization. It is important for both people and businesses across the country that we now have an agreement on the budget. It provides security and predictability on key priorities for next year. Let me give you some main points from what we're agreed on: we agree on a formidable commitment to maritime nutrition. Among other things, the net pay system for seafarers is strengthened. The appropriations for road investment and maintenance are greatly increased. Appropriations to start work with City Ship Tunnel, InterCity Vestfold and Kongsbergbanen, as well as the reduction of tolls are also among the transport operations. The sugar levy is removed, the non-alcoholic beverages are halved, the snuff fee is 25 pst. lower, and the beer and wine levy is reduced by 10 pst. In the meantime, we have also agreed on a powerful 22-billion-billion-dollar package of measures. in particular for Norwegian industry. The proposals include: targeted at the health sector, compensation to municipalities and businesses, support to vulnerable groups and extension of income protection schemes. These are things that we agreed on in the negotiations along the way, and it was important to create predictability for those who are feeding and experiencing difficult times right now. Norway has a better starting point than many others. Before the crisis, we had high employment, low unemployment, high productivity, robust banks and a well-functioning economy. Norway has a resilient business and high trust in society. This year we have all learned the importance of having extraordinary government finances. Thanks to all those who have contributed to Norway's largest oil and gas industry venture, the community has received huge revenues. And thanks to wise decisions and responsible management, we have used them to build up the world’s largest national savings fund – the oil fund. In good weather days, we have prepared for the storm days that we knew would come. We can be happy for that now. Where other countries raise difficult crisis loans, with which they will have to endure for many years to come, Norway has the oil fund. This possibility also obligates. We have to use this situation to make the economy even better able to renew itself. We have to make sure that that day another generation is in the same crisis as ours, they have to have at least as good a toolbox as what we've had and have. Therefore, measures have been presented in the budget that contribute to the necessary transformation into the Norwegian economy. The government parties presented our draft government budget in October, and it was based on the government's strategy for Norway's way out of the crisis: creating more and including more. The measures in the year’s budget provide support and activity in districts, green conversion and growth in business, security and support to those who need it, and will build competences for the future. The budget is expansive, which means that we spend more money on creating activity. 73 B.C.E. kr to roads, bridges, tunnels and railways – this will require thousands of hands and heads to carry out. Then I'm talking about the draft budget we put forward. In addition, we have cut the tax on working capital, so that we take care of those who want to create Norwegian jobs, those who stand on every day to save Norwegian jobs. The Labour Party believes that the debate on taxes on wealth is about yachts and luxury cars, but what it is really about are fishing boats and trucks. It's about people's work. This budget ensures more bones to stand on. We're going to spend 10 billion. kr for industrial research and innovation. And the tax havens strengthen the economy of many families that are sorely in need of it. A normal family would have about NOK 14 000 more to travel with than with the level in 2013. This budget contributes to the creation of a green future. Carbon capture and storage, rail and public transport are important and important budget initiatives. This budget contributes to the building of competences. We're going to ensure that more people complete high school and that more people get the skills that tomorrow's work and business needs. Many of those who have now fallen out of work are not sure to come back to the same type of work and the same type of work when this pandemic is over. And we're going to further develop the Education promise of 2020. Prior to the Korona crisis, unemployment in Norway was record low after more than six years with this government’s policy. Four out of five jobs were created in private business, and that's also where they are to be created again. That's where we have to go back, and with this budgetary unit, the government, together with the Progress Party, stakes out the course for the future. This is also a budget that helps to include more. All shall be given the opportunity to participate in work and social life. A job to go to is the key to everything. Anyone who can work should work. At the same time as creating new jobs, we need to avoid people falling out of work permanently or falling out of work. In the future, we need to help get more people to work. Many are now unemployed or on leave. Past crises have taught us that we need to provide education and school to prevent people from staying out of work. We have to make sure that those who are unemployed today get the skills that business needs tomorrow. The next year’s state budget will also help to respond to the long-term challenges facing the country – the challenges ahead of the Korona crisis that will follow, perhaps to a much greater extent. That's why the budget is about creating more and including more. Today, we adopt solutions that contribute to jobs and activity, without losing sight of the long-term perspective. The challenges ahead of the crisis will, as I said, be there afterwards. With the government's actions and agreement with the Progress Party, we will contribute to activity throughout the country, green change and growth in business. For us in the Right, an important message to business and people throughout the crisis has been: Let's keep the wheels running where we can. Let's stay open where we can. But we also have to take care of each other, because good health policy and good health are also good economics in the current situation. The important thing for us now is to keep the infection down, give security to people and jobs, help those who need help, get people back to work and make sure more legs are on. The last thing we do is create more jobs in more and more industries across the country. We have said from the outset that we should do everything we can to lead Norway safely out of the crisis. We have shown this through repeated crisis packages throughout this year. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the parties at Stortinget for their cooperation in the context of the crisis packages. But I also want to say that now we're going into a new phase. The infection rates are high, and it's important to breathe with your stomach. It is important to use consent, and we have a shared responsibility for all of us contributing to the peace we need in business, and to ensure that a political debate on the issues is allowed, but we also need to contribute to ensuring that there is no uncertainty about the measures we are taking. The government's clear message is clear: we have to do what is needed, but it has to be effective. It must be capable of being reversed, and it must be possible to vary according to the evolution of the situation. I include this loose proposal No. 205 to replace the recommendation I, and I will address the solutions proposed No. 206 to 238. The contract is printed as an attachment to the Innst. 5 S for 2020-2021 by the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e163	The representative Mudasar Kapur has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e170	As a result of the pandemic we're in, there's now a huge lag in our hospitals to bring down the waiting times. We in the Workers' Party believe that now is the time to strengthen our public hospital budgets. With this government budget and the agreement with the Progress Party, it seems to me that privatisation and more purchases of private health services will help Norwegian patients waiting for treatment. However, from 2017 to 2019, the use of the Right privatisation reform in hospitals tripled, and in the same period, waiting times increased. So what didn't work in the last three years, we're going to have to do more. Shouldn't the right throw away the ideological skyscrapers and spend the money on something that actually improves the capacity of our common health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e177	Making it possible for more people to provide health services to help reduce health cows, compared with the health cows at the time of the Workers’ Party’s overthrow, is precisely not to have ideological skyscrapers. We have strengthened the hospital budgets strongly since we took over in 2013. That's why the health cows also went down. This year we have been in an exceptional situation, and the government has ensured that both hospitals and the health sector have been strengthened throughout the crisis. We have also made sure that the municipalities get the money they need to deal with the covid situation. It is true that through the agreement with the Progress Party, we are further strengthening the budget by 250 million. kr to purchase services from private individuals, so that it can also help bring health cows down to the exceptional situation we are in. In fact, I would say that when this government can show that the health cows have gone down, and set up for the health sector during this crisis, I simply do not agree with the reality description provided by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e186	Since the representative Kapur speaks on behalf of the nation in his post, I think we have to deal with the realities, and they are as follows: From 2010 the waiting times in Norwegian hospitals went down, until 2017. Then, unfortunately, they started going up again. In the same period, the right-wing effort on the privatisation reform tripled the choice of treatment. This is a medicine that doesn't work. I would like to encourage the representative, Mr Kapur, to answer the question. A medicine that doesn't work, now that the challenge has become even greater as a result of the fact that our common health care has secured us all, one will therefore continue towards better knowledge. Is that the answer from Kapur?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e193	I don't accept the premise. It is completely wrong to claim that this government does not do enough for the health service. We have strengthened the budgets in the hospital sector by nearly 60 billion. kr since we took over. The health queues have fallen compared to the day when the representative's party was in power. The fact that we open up so that private providers can help the state get the hospital cows down, so that people get faster and better treatment, is something the Workers' Party should support. I don't speak on behalf of a nation – I don't have such great thoughts about myself. I guess I'm going to say that I speak on behalf of patients and most people when I say that this government has set up for the health sector also through this situation. Now, when we also ensure the municipalities the health budgets they need to meet with covid, and we say that we should stand up, follow the situation forward and, together with the Progress Party, facilitate the purchase of services so that we get the health cows down through the use of private ones, it is about using all the good forces to deal with the difficult situation in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e200	The government promoted in the national budget proposals on principles for so-called sustainable car taxes. The progress party is the only party that has mentioned this in the setting. We are clearly opposed to these principles. We believe that car-related charges should be significantly reduced. We also believe that after 2025 it should be possible to buy a new petrol, diesel and hybrid car. This means that the one-off fee should continue to be reduced and that it should be phased out in the long term. The government proposed an increase in the one-off charge in 2021, which was justified by the stabilisation of the proceeds from car charges – as if maintaining the tax pressure is a measure in itself. In the budget agreement, we have had a positive impact on reversing the government's proposal for tightening the one-off fee. In addition, we have had an impact on further relief at the top of it. Can Kapur confirm that there is today no majority in favour of the principles of so-called sustainable car taxes, with the budgetary agreement that is on the table today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e209	Sivert Bjørnstad is painfully aware – or perhaps happyly aware, I would say, now that we agree – that we have changed the budget for next year. The principles of a sustainable car tax system are not just about 2021, it's about what kind of car park and what type of car tax system we're going to have in the years to come. There is a consensus here in Stortinget, with a clear majority, that the sale of fossil cars after 2025 should not take place – the new cars should be emission-free cars. Then I have to say that I agree with the representative that it is good that we have found a good solution to reverse some of the fees on fossil cars that were in the budget. But I also think it is important that we continue to invest in electric cars, and that we continue to invest in the transition to a car park that is emission-free. There is a broad consensus on this in Stortinget. The negotiations we have had today are about 2021, and then we get to take new rounds when next year comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e216	The right-wing chairman of the Financial Committee said at the end that business needs to be calmed down. There's a lot of anxiety, and where there's a lot of anxiety, there's a little over 60,000 out of them. There are many families who are now going to meet an uncertain Christmas and think, "What's going on?" Do I get my job back? Does my mother or father get back his job? Or are they being cancelled? We had that turmoil a little before summer this year as well. Then the Right would not extend the rules of leave from six to twelve months, they waited until August to do so. So you created a troubled summer. My question to the Right-Man and the Financial Committee leader is: Will you once again join and extend the rules of permacy, so that there will be a little more security, a little more tranquility, so that a family can know that you also have income protection in the next six months? Or are you going to be crystal clear that it's going to be twelve months, and then termination is better than permitting? Of course, I hope for a positive answer for all those who are now on leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e228	The first thing the government did when the infection rates increased again for a few weeks ago was to warn that income insurance schemes were extended immediately to the outside in 2021, mostly until March, and something longer. Permitting legislation has already been extended. So once again, we're in an extraordinary situation where the numbers of infections are now high. But we hope they go down. And the most important predictability we can then create is to make sure that we don't have the same solution regardless of the situation. We have to be able to have solutions that will make sure that we get right into that part of the business that is now struggling the most, make sure that they get over the cracks, but that we also spend the money on keeping the wheels running where we can. The most important way out of this crisis is that people get to work -- that they can come back to work, pay taxes and start creating values again. But what the representative for Battle Violence Vedum wants to facilitate is that we have a flat scheme all year round, no matter how the contagion numbers are. It is not the solution that Norwegian business needs now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e237	Take care of each other, said the representative in his post, but in front of me is a representative of a party that has a rift of billions of tax dollars to the richest, but who does not want to help young people who have poor vision, with money for glasses, a party that buckets bowing fruit baskets on its sails, but thought an apple to the kids at school was too expensive, a party that allows the richest children to inherit completely unlimited, but takes from the kids to the untapped many of the child supplement, and that you have lost both the job and the health and need of the AAP, it's quite good to cut your income after three years. I have to wonder: Why does the Right always afford luxury lives for the billionaires, but not decent living conditions for the sick, the unemployed, the disabled and the disadvantaged – and especially now, in the crisis we are in?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e244	It was a fierce description of the party Right, which I absolutely do not agree with. If there's something this government has shown in recent years, it's just that we're taking those outside seriously. That's why we make sure that kids get through school, because it's the most important social mobility arena. A good education is what creates the basis for life afterwards. Making sure that young people go to high school is what makes them not at the back of the line when they go to work. Raising child-responsiveness means that families with children get better advice. The fact that we give free core time in the kindergarten allows several immigrant parents to send their children to kindergarten and attend Norwegian courses or jobseekers' courses instead. This government has taken many steps to ensure that we get less inequality in Norway. And I have to remind the representative that the statistics might not have been so much to boast of when her own party put in government. Throughout this situation, the government has set up for people, so that we can get through the crisis safely. So this history description is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e251	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e256	For a strange sight the government and the Progress Party have exposed us for the last few months. In a crisis year, at a time when we count almost 200 000 unemployed people and have strict anti-infection measures threatening even more jobs, at a time when the health care system is being tested to the point of failure, the right parties are blowing up all treatment periods for the budget and reaching agreement overtime. It's not because the parties have fought for jobs, better hospital economy or more social justice. No, this year, when the economy needs predictability and resources for crisis, the conflict on the right has been about alcohol taxes, cutting quota refugees and cutting aid. Budgetary discussions should be about completely different things: Like the nurse Renee, who runs from the patient to the patient and drops dope visits and lunch breaks to cover all the work tasks, but still doesn't feel that there's enough time to give patients the help they deserve in the hospital. Or factory worker Egil, who has been on leave from Figjo AS since March this year. He knows the loss of safety a job can give, and he knows the uncertainty because the period of leave expires. In addition, he is standing without income in July next year, because this government has taken from him the right to holiday pay. Or Barier Pål, who has been working for many years to create collection points for people, but who now experience that the outdoors and the serving places he has helped establish must be shut down and laid down because the crisis packages from the government are too weak, the money is waiting. The budget should be about creating jobs, strengthening our common well-being and cutting greenhouse gas emissions. This should be a predictable and safe economic policy for a demanding time. But the government, with the Progress Party on tow, has made sure it's all about other things. That is not the policy of the Labour Party in favour of today. We have higher ambitions for our country. There are hundreds of thousands of Norwegians going back to work. Work for everyone is job number one. We're going to make our common welfare state stronger. The welfare state should embrace everyone — a safe upbringing, a good school, a rough care for the elderly and a stronger health care system, no matter what you serve or where you live. Norway’s climate targets are to be met. We need to save the world from a climate crisis in a way that is fair, that reduces disparities and that creates jobs. Now it must be the turn of the workers. For seven years, the right-wing parties have given huge gifts of money to the richest and financed it by increasing the fees for ordinary people. Now, before the election, the fees are to be reduced again, but the tie must continue. Every day, the thousand richest Northmen get a champagne bottle in a tax haven, while nine out of ten Northmen get enough for an empty carrier bag at the store. As if that's not enough, the right will continue with new tax cuts, for the whole of $2.6 billion. kr, to the thousand richest of the country. That's the consequence of a full stock discount in the property tax. The effect for almost everyone else, the 88 pst. by at least, is zero - zero! - Kroner. It is fundamentally unfair, and that is bad economic policy. When income and values are evenly distributed, the economy works better. The OECD even says that small economic differences lead to increased economic growth. But now the differences are increasing. If we look at wealth, according to the SSB, we can no longer call ourselves an equality society. The Labour Party will have more jobs and a fairer Norway. We also show that with our simple tax regime: lower taxes on income below NOK 750000, higher taxes on high incomes and large assets, unchanged taxes on enterprises. Where we increase taxes, they are matched by tax cuts and lower income taxes. Eight out of ten would pay less taxes on income. Nine out of ten pensioners would come out better. We also make it more reasonable to commute to work, be professionally organized and have children in kindergarten or SFO. The Workers' Party's proposal to pay more taxes with the largest equity assets has obviously frustrated the Right, who has written posts in the country's newspapers where they almost repeat false claims about property taxes. Once and for all: Property taxes are taxes on persons, individuals, wealth. It's not the same as jobs. No enterprises pay taxes on wealth. It also has no demonstrable negative impact on job creation, rather on the contrary. 90 pst. the property tax is paid by the 10 pst. The richest people in Norway, and it is the only tax that prevents the richest from getting away and becoming zero-taxers. Therefore, it is important both for the income of the community and for the popular confidence that the tax system is fair. But the right does not allow itself to be deffected by this. The point is another: the rich don't like to pay taxes either, and that's what the Right is for. They try to hide this by talking about taxes on businesses and jobs, just as the Republicans in the United States do when they give huge tax cuts to the richest country. Trump called his gifts to the dollar billionaires of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, while George W. Bush marketed his similar package as the Tax Cuts for Job Creators, tax cut for employees. Here at home, the stock discount is called working capital. The right-hand side is equal to themselves, they want to reduce the tax burden on themselves and theirs. It is now the turn of the workforce to improve their finances, through cheaper kindergartens and SFOs, better commuting allowances, double trade union deductions and lower income taxes. Policy is about who and what you want to give priority to. The Workers' Party will liquidate State aid for the privatisation of the healthcare system, impose a levy on private health insurance and rather bet on public health services for all. We do not want to sponsor the purchase of the most expensive electric cars, but rather build fast charging stations in all Norwegian municipalities, so that everyone can switch to an electric car throughout Norway. In addition to large tax cuts to the country's rich and powerful, we tell Nurse Renee that with the Workers' Party there will be more money for hospitals and municipalities, full-time work and escalating schedule for nurses in the care of the elderly and more permanent jobs. We told factory worker Egil that with the Workers' Party he would of course have paid a holiday supplement. With the Workers' Party, he avoids a delayed financial penalty for the summer. And we say to Barians Pål that economic crisis measures and infectious measures should, of course, go hand in hand. The crisis funds should come earlier than January next year, and the schemes must take the jobs that are struggling. The Labour Party believes that now it must be the turn of the workers. Nearly 200,000 are unemployed, the differences are increasing, and the climate problem is hanging over us. Then we present a budget to get people to work, strengthen our common well-being and cut greenhouse gas emissions. Both the crisis we are facing and the major challenges that await us in the 2020s, we are going to solve together. We get to a lot more together than each of us. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the light of the changes in estimates made by the Storting, new incomes and minor needs shown in the agreement, the Labour Party has introduced an adjusted proposal for a framework that replaces our proposal in the vote. We are also happy to observe that there is now the right way for better pension regulation, even though the Progress Party and the right side voted against this in this Chamber just a few weeks ago. The Labour Party has for several years made proposals for better pension regulation, and we therefore support the proposal. Finally, I would like to say that this year's budgetary procedure in Stortinget does not provide the opportunity for the minority to carefully evaluate all the individual elements of the majority settlement. There are some expenditure items and deposits we in the opposition needed more time, but that was not the case. I'll bring it up to the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e302	The representative Eigil Knutsen has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e309	We in the Right have been looking for several months – at least – for answers from the Workers' Party on what is, or at least will be, their tax policy in the years to come. There have been many excuses, crunches, one has always pointed out that one will come back with an answer, while at the same time criticising the government for tax cuts that will be an attack on the welfare state. They've called it a tax scandal, and it's increasing inequalities. When you saw the fasit, you saw that you chose to keep going around the same tax system that the government has been doing in the last seven years, and so you have proved that you've been doing a rather divisive rhetoric in that field. At the same time, the Workers' Party has also now revealed that they want to increase taxes by 7 billion. kr – surgically directed towards those who create Norwegian jobs. Does the representative think this is the medicine for a Norway in crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e316	The working party is probably the only party that has put forward a clear and clear tax arrangement for the next large-scale period. It's very clear. There is a lower income tax for those with income less than DKK 750000, higher for them above, a similar corporate tax as today. And then we're raising the property tax a little bit. We're increasing the bottom subtraction from 1.5 million. NOK to SEK 1.7 million. kr to protect the minimum pensioners who are resident but who have low income. Then we say that those with the largest stock assets and the largest assets are going to pay more taxes than today. They've got big tax cuts from the Right in the last few years. The working party is completely open and honest that with the large assets they will pay more taxes with our scheme. What we in the Working Party are wondering is what the Right Policy for the next period is. Their country meeting has adopted 15 billion. kr in the property tax code, the central government has said something else, 7.2. But what kind of welfare does it become of these huge tax cuts from the Right? That's what we in the Workers' Party are wondering.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e323	If the Labour Party is wondering about the Right Tax Scheme, it's just to repeat one of us in the next round, then we'll answer that as well. But now it is our turn to ask questions, and the Workers' Party cannot fool itself by asking questions back. The representative points to an increase in taxes on wealth. Well, you've now announced 7 billion. kr in increased taxes in that field. It goes right into the Norwegian workplaces. It's the hairdresser's barber, it's the truck, it's excavators, it's fishing boats. This is what concerns Norwegian jobs. At the same time, the Workers' Party – it only took a week before they revealed what this tax increase really was – said that this was not a thank you, that this was not a maximum limit. So what we're actually witnessing is a tax system from the Workers' Party where it's 7 billion. kr and upwards. May be confirmed by the representative in 7 billion. kr in increased treasures is a floor, or is it a roof?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e332	With the Workers' Party's tax arrangements, it's going to be 7.2 billion. kr extra in revenue next year. It's very easy to read to our arrangement. We're saying that they're worth more than 1.7 million. kr is going to get a rate of 1,1 pst. And then we're going to add an extra rate of 0,2 pst. in addition to assets above 20 million. kr. It will provide a fairer wealth tax, a more progressive wealth tax, than today. Then we put the stock discount at 20 p.m., in line with the 2016 tax settlement. Kapur is talking about the operating resources around, but the big bloc in the stock abate, which is the top right priority to cut, is of course shares – and shares among them with the greatest assets. So if you keep cutting the stock abate like the one on the right, you're going to go 97 pst. of the cut to the richest tithe in Norway. Such a tax system cannot be included in the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e337	The working party has always been tax-free. Therefore, it was surprising to hear party leader Jonas Gahr Støre in the NRK today saying the following when he was asked if he wanted to reverse the border trade tax cuts of 3.7 billion. kr, which is now being implemented: ‘No, I am not saying that today.’ We will see what he says tomorrow. The car has always been a tax item for the Workers' Party. The proposal proposes a tax tightening of the country's drivers on approx. One and a half billion. kr. It mostly affects those who live in the districts, who depend on the car, and of course leads to increased expenses for all of them. Why is it every year a target of the Workers' Party to skin and punish those who depend on the car in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e347	First, it is important to remind the representative Listhaug that it was a Progress Party Transport Minister who presented to the Stortinget the goal that all new car sales from 2025 should be of zero-emission cars – the memory is clearly soon after one has left the government. The working party is working towards this goal that the new car sales from 2025 should be zero emissions. That's why we're making some tax adjustments. But what we're saying is that if charges are increased, we lower other charges, for example. overpriced fees in the country, which the Progress Party has incurred in its time in government, or we reduce the income tax. In the budget of the Workers' Party, a person with average income receives NOK 3000 lower income taxes next year. That is what we believe to be good policy on distribution, while at the same time taking into account climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e354	The President lives in Eidsvoll, and if you start from one of the commuters from Eidsvoll to Oslo, she has lost NOK 5 800 with the intrusions that the Right Party and the Advance Party have done in government. There has been a targeted tightening for everyone who has a long way to travel, everyone who lives in wrecks, everyone who has some disadvantage in connection with work. My questions to the Workers' Party are: Why does the Workers' Party, like the Centre Party, believe that the rights of those who commute should be strengthened? What is the main reason why we believe that this is a wise and good policy – not the disparity policy of the Right and the Progressive Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e361	The main reason for this is that after eight years of targeted tax cuts for the wealthiest and where ordinary workers have been penalised more and more, both through taxes and snuff taxes, as this example shows. The Labour Party proposes a strong improvement in the commuting deduction to next year, and we propose a doubling of the trade union deduction. Not everyone can live as close to the job as they would like, and they have increased tax expenses with today's government. It's crazy, it increases the differences between people. Not least, it can lead to increased centralisation, that there are no people living in the districts. That's why we clearly say that the commuting deduction needs to be improved, initially by reducing the balance to NOK 15 000.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e368	The representative was concerned about climate policy. At the same time, emissions in Norway have fallen in the last four years, they are certainly also falling this year, and with this budget they will also make it the next year. An important area to achieve the 2030 target is to sell only a zero-emission vehicle in 2025. I will take some of that criticism away from the Progress Party and take credit for the Left negotiating that goal back in 2015. Then my question becomes: does the representative agree that we need to achieve the goal of just selling a zero-emission vehicle in 2025? And how does the Workers' Party feel that they can contribute to it, when the only thing they come with – year after year – is to weaken the electric car benefits, now in this proposal also with the imposition of VAT?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e375	Yeah, I guess it's just missing that the emissions in that gentleman's year 2020 are going to be lower than the year before. So to the electric cars: Yes, the Workers' Party proposes to introduce VAT on the most expensive electric cars, with a bottom deduction of NOK 600 000. That means if you buy an electric car for 1 million. NOK, you must pay NOK 100000 in VAT. We think that's fair. It also creates greater confidence in the subsidies that are already there. The achievement of the electric car target is about the relative difference between the benefits for fossil cars and the benefits for electric cars. After all, in the budget agreement, the benefits for fossil cars are being weakened. The government also imposes taxes on electric cars, and they reduce taxes on fossil cars. So the government is going in the wrong direction, and I recommend the representative of Elvesuen to look at the Workers' Party's alternative budget if he wants advice and guidance on how we can achieve the 2025 zero-emission target on the new car sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e384	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e389	Norway is in the midst of a crisis of security for the economy, jobs and homes. Many families feel insecure during these Christmas seasons. Permits and dismissals are experienced, and almost 200,000 people are unemployed. Some industries are particularly vulnerable: travel, aviation, restaurant and catering, and maritime industries, to name a few. Small and large players experience seeing life's work that can be lost. In such a situation, the Progress Party chooses to grant its subsidiary support to the budget. In a normal situation, it didn't have to be like this at all. We've got a lot of good work to do. We've moved to 18 billion. kr. We have had the time to reduce border trade charges by almost 3.7 billion. kr. We remove the fee for chocolate and confectionery, a fee that has been in excess of 100 years. We're halving the fee on non-alcoholic beverages, and we're going to get a reduction of nuance of 25 pst. We're reducing the alcohol tax by 775 million. kr. It is important that these reliefs benefit consumers, and it is good that several food chains have been clear about this. We have to keep up. We also hope that means that some of those who have now got a job, who have had a hard time getting into the labour market, can keep the job even after the borders are opened, and we hope that means that the Norwegians will spend a little less money in Sweden. Pensioners and older people are important to the Advancement Party. Year after year, pensioners have been under-regulated. For next year we've got a package of 3.7 billion. kr, which benefits pensioners and the elderly. We've increased the pension for lone minimum pensioners, and we stopped underregulation of pensions by adding up at these points over 2 billion. kr. We're going to have a thousand additional health care places, we're going to have a pilot project to strengthen the dental health of the elderly, which I know is under every criticism around the country, and we're going to do something about the government's obsessive unsocial proposal to increase the price of sick people. This increase is going to be nothing of it. The equity participations shall be aggregated but shall be retained at NOK 2460. It saves sick people in Norway for 1.1 billion. kr. We're going to fight loneliness among the elderly, who are among those who are the hardest hit by the pandemic, by 400 million. kr. In the middle of the crisis, the government failed the maritime sector. They made sure to weaken the net pay scheme. This is now reversed. The net pay scheme will be strengthened next year, and that means several Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. We also take important steps for the paint industry. We're going to do more on transportation next year. We're going to lay asphalt, tear up toll stations, start road projects and maintain the road network. After several decades, the final City Ship Tunnel shall be realized, now it is the end of eternal investigations. We provide more police patrols, and we ensure that we strengthen the fight against repeat crime and the developments we see in Oslo and neighbouring municipalities, which go against Swedish states. We ensure that private kindergartens are still able to operate and be a safe haven for children, for parents who send their children there, and for the many employees who thrive there. We didn't reduce the number of quota refugees, but after seven years, we now get the Christian People's Party and the Left on our knees. Finally, the Grand Duchy shall decide that the number of years of permanent residence in Norway shall be increased from three to five years. No one who has been in Norway on 1 December for three years is allowed permanent residence until five years have elapsed. It means extra time for the police and foreign agencies to detect cheating, to reveal false identities, that in several countries and areas from which these people have fled, it can be safe, so that they can travel back and help rebuild their country. The Christian People's Party and the Left are also involved in tightening up the maintenance requirement. It has already been tightened up recently by raising it to approx. NOK 265000. Introduction aid is now also removed as a basis for bringing their family to Norway or for bringing their spouse to Norway. For the first time, Christians persecuted must finally be given priority. I see that it is being criticised by many teams, but I am very pleased that the Progress Party got a pass on this. All in all, it's very good. In a normal situation, it is by no means certain that this budget had been adopted here today, but I am pleased that we are now going to help secure families, secure people around the country who are now afraid to be outlawed, who have been outlawed, who are going to a Christmas holiday meeting where they are concerned about the future, because they get income to live off, and whether they have a job to go to. That is precisely why – for all these reasons – the Progress Party is voting in a subsidiary way for this proposal. I'm addressing our framework proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e427	The representative Sylvi Listhaug has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e434	I understand why the representative does not talk so much about the maritime sector in his post. She said that the government has failed the maritime sector. The propulsion party has failed the maritime sector. There is a crisis in the yard industry, and Sunnmaere is one of the hardest hit areas in the country. So the jobs of 60 pst. by persons employed in the yard industry may disappear in 2022. The rapporteur from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in Ulstein has also called for a strong warning on this. He has pressed the alarm button on behalf of his municipality, his inhabitants – for the industry. The representative Listhaug has been very central in the negotiations and should have all the prerequisites for knowing this industry, know this geographical area. Why have not the representative and the Progress Party done more to ensure the shipbuilding industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e441	I have no idea which newspaper or people the representative here has spoken to. On the contrary, I get many messages back from Sunnmare and from the coast around that you are very happy with the changes the Progress Party has made. We have ensured that the changes made by the government to the net pay system in the middle of a crisis were reversed – and not only that, the net pay system was strengthened. That means we're going to have several Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. We've expanded the wreckage system by 150 million. kr and its scope. We're getting changes so that the funding for our yards can be improved through the guarantee scheme in GIEK. We ensure that public authorities in the maritime sector can use Norwegian as a starting point for the tenders, precisely because it can ensure that many of these projects end up in Norwegian shipyards. So I don't understand which planet the representative lives on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e448	I may be living on a planet other than Listhaug, I live with that, but I think I live on the same planet as the rapporteur from the Progress Party, who has said this, as I have just said, to the E24. He's yelling crisis for the industry, he's yelling crisis on behalf of Sunnmare. Of course, there has been more money in the negotiations – it should be lacking, you use record money – but this is not going to ensure the many employees in the industry. It just doesn't hold, what's in place. Of course, it is good to have put in place the net pay scheme and done something with the social cuts that this government has wanted. It's very fine, we've also worked very hard for it and have also suggested it. But I wish that the representative Listhaug had had a little more focus on her own home region, the industry she should know better. It has not been done, and that is why you do not get the promise of the jobs you need in industry. So my question is, why haven't you had more focus on the maritime industry when you've been in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e456	I don't understand where you have this description of reality from. I have spoken to the rapporteur in Ulstein and know very well that conditions there are very difficult. That's exactly why we've followed up recordings that have come from the maritime sector on Sunnmøre and elsewhere in the country, and got an impact on most of the points there. We've put into place City Ship Tunnel, which is an important project in the area, and which will also benefit the maritime sector. All in all, it's very good here. I have not been able to read that the Workers' Party has made any more proposals in its alternative budget that would make way for the well-being. On the contrary, this is a very serious situation for the maritime sector. We have to give the best possible framework conditions, and here the Progress Party has really got through to drag the government in the right direction. Then the Workers' Party will try to make these claims further, at least that's not the feedback I get from Sunnmore, where I have a lot of contacts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e463	Since 2013, the Progress Party has had its party for Norwegian records. The progress party has seen a new Norwegian record in demanding tolls every year. The progress batch has seen Norway record in increasing fuel taxes. The Progress Party has the Norwegian record in the exercise of the number of Ministers of Justice who have fought to introduce a death penalty. Together with their friends, the party of progress has seen Norway’s record in inconsequential state conjugations, for example. The Viking and Troms and Finnmark. The party of progress has a Norwegian record of running out of liability after having banned a legitimate industry. So my question is: is there any real limit to what representative is Listhaug and the Progress Party willing to agree to ensure that Sveinung Rotevatn, Abid Raja and Knut Arild Hareide are allowed to be state councillors?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e470	We've given a clear message that we're quite finished with the Left and Christian People's Party, and that's enough to show up in the future. Now we were busy getting the country a budget and in a time of crisis take responsibility for all the families who are now at home, who are licensed, who are afraid to lose the job, who are afraid of their income. It was actually important. But in terms of – what to say – ingenuity, it's at least interesting to read the alternative budget of the Center Party, which is a real belly pad, where you suggest, among other things. a fee of 50 million. kr, where the party leader is on TV and flirts with tax cuts that are necessary for people to keep their jobs. I have to say that I think it's very special, and after reading this budget, at least I'm absolutely sure that it's not going to save all the jobs that are now coming, and that ensure people without education the ability to work in the grocery store.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e477	The budget finally got majority overtime, and we could hope that they would sit there and negotiate good measures for jobs, for workers and for those who fear that they will be left with even less to the next year. It would have been good to spend money on it, but when they came out, we saw that it had been an expensive cold table for the Progress Party, with alcohol, tobacco and chocolate on the account of the oil fund. Yes, and then a little bit extra to the private in the welfare, and to those who have the most expensive dwellings and the largest assets – the oil fund there too. I know that my concern for money and the needs of future generations does not impress the Progress Party, but I hope it makes the impression to meet the young person who does not know how to afford both home and food next year, or the one who has lost the job in the kiosk of the Gardermo, and who does not know how to go next year, or the parents of the kids who need glasses, and who they cannot afford. So my question is, why does the Progress Party prioritise them with the most expensive housing, and not these groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e486	Now it's interesting to hear SV talk about an expensive cold table and emptying the oil fund, those who in practice spend money with both hands and in addition want to put down the industry that actually creates these values. That being said, the Progress Party, among other things, As a priority here, our pensioners are: single minimum pensioners and all the pensioners who have been under-regulated for years. Over 2 billion. Let's move on to that purpose. Now it is that SV was with the Progress Party on a proposal that was promoted in Stortinget, and I must say that we were quite paffe when we saw the alternative proposal from SV, where there is not a flat crown for the country's pensioners. Not only do we put it into our alternative budget, we also deliver it through the consensus we have here in the Stortinget. I'm very pleased, because the country's pensioners deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e495	SV is very pleased with the agreement we have made with the Progress Party to improve the economy of pensioners. It is high time, and that is why we are also involved in the changes that the Progress Party has now negotiated on the regulation of pensions, in what we are adopting today, but in our alternative budget there was also more money for the minimum pensioners. SV uses at least the oil money of all the batches in this hall in the budget that we are adopting today. These are SV's priorities. Nevertheless, we can afford to secure those families that can't afford glasses for their kids, yet we're giving better money to the young disabled, yet we're securing the people who've lost their job and don't know how to get money next summer. These are the priorities of the SV budget; with our budget, the differences are falling, while securing the economy for future generations and ensuring that the richest contribute more. I wish that the Progress Party could also give priority to this in its budget agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e502	It is good that SV uses at least, but the fact is that you should not use one penny of funds created by an industry that you have been opposed to this year after year. And the downturn from the SV of the oil and gas industry is simply shameful. There are an incredible number of beautiful people who go to work every day and create enormous values for the country. Having said that, it is very nice that SV is now involved in increasing the appropriations for the country's pensioners after this has been negotiated by the Progress Party, but I can't help but say that it was very disappointing to see that you had not initially put in a penny to do anything about under-regulation of pensions, as we know that so many pensioners have been unfair for years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e509	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e514	What's made the strongest impression on me in the last few months is all the people I've met who are afraid of their job, who's been outsourced, and all the small business owners I see in my eyes the concern of when I meet them, the concern of how they're going to manage to get the wheels to walk around – or business stops I've met in the maritime sector along the coast, which is afraid because the order books are getting empty. The reason why it's tough for them is because we all think we should have less activity. It is not because they have driven poorly, but because of the safety of all of us. One of the strongest meetings I have had was when I came home from a trip. I had been to the West and was at the Gardermoen. I met a guy at the end of the 50s who was driving and collecting luggage racks. He had done a solid job for many, many years, and he could tell that Friday was the last day he should be at work. In March, when society was shut down, he had 75 colleagues. At the end of the week there would be five pieces left in that company. It's a pretty hard brutality when you've been working for years, doing a solid job, and then you know you're going to go out on leave when you're almost 60 years old. It was also the joy of her I met inside the Gardermoen, who had just come back to work in October, she was back from leaving because things looked a little brighter. So I know that when we shut down society again, it was in the perm queue again. I think many of us have had meetings with hotel and restaurant staff in the last few months. It makes a lot of sense when you have a meeting with those who say 90 pst. by their colleagues, they have either been granted a permit or have been cancelled. There are thousands of hotels and restaurants around Norway entering Christmas without a job, without security and with great uncertainty. When I was in Rosendal, an incredibly great place – at the fjord hotel there, which is family-run, I think – I began to ask: How is it really beyond the fall? Do you have any customers? Do you think there'll be any activity? Then they could say, "No, we don't have Christmas reservations, not a single one, was the message from the lady who was in the reception." I recommend everyone to take taxis in Oslo by day and ask the driver: how is your working day as a taxi driver? Those taxi drivers don't have the pay at the bottom – the representative Frølich from the Right would try himself as a taxi driver, he has a million at the bottom, so I'm sure it'll work. But the taxi drivers have nothing at the bottom. Then ask: How is your working life? One time I went to work with someone who had gone to work. 3:00 a.m. I took the taxi at 3:00 a.m. 08.00, and it was the second trip to the driver. That's the reality. It's brutal and tough, and you're struggling to get the ends to meet. In the middle of such a crisis, the government chooses to release the taxi policy, without even seeing the people. On the train I met a lady filling the coffee machine and cleaning around the food stations on the train. She said that almost all of her colleagues were now on leave. She was so lucky that she still wasn't. It is the harsh reality around as family by family and enterprise after business experience now. It is a major concern, and Norway has a record high unemployment rate. There is much higher unemployment now than it was under the IT bubble. There is higher unemployment now than it was during the financial crisis. There's higher unemployment now than it was in the oil crisis. There are many who are concerned about their job, their everyday lives, their security and their business. That's why we in the Central Party believe that too little is done in this budget, that you take too easy on the time off, and that you should use more power, more money, to make sure that the time off doesn't get stuck. And then we have to provide security for all those who now feel insecure – a little more secure. I want to go through some points in a large alternative budget. Point one is permitting. Before the summer, there was a big debate in Stortinget on whether to extend from six to twelve months. The government didn't want to be on it, they held back and held back. Thanks to that, a crowd of thousands of workers were disturbed throughout the summer. But then you came to August and said you had to extend to twelve months. Why couldn't you make that peace in May/June? Now we're in the same situation. It's about 60,000 in total or in part perm, and we're getting closer to the 12-month limit. Many are going to get the cancellation letter around Christmas. Why can the government not now make it clear that it will extend the legislation on permitting in the period when the corona is as strong as it is now? Henrik Asheim has said in a VG interview that you evaluate it, to look at it, to think about it. But for those in crisis, there is only a basis for even more unrest. My clear call for the government parties and the prime minister is: Make clear now that there will be an extension of the law on the permation, as long as we have all wanted hotels, restaurants and other establishments around Norway to keep lower activity. We must extend the period of leave to at least 18 months, which is in our draft budget. Then there is the compensation scheme for self-employed people, who have been pushed through in the Stortingen: for some reason the government seems very important to make the compensation scheme for self-employed people worse all the time. They were very opposed to it when it came, and have constantly tried to limit it. Now there's a compensation arrangement of 60 pst. of the income you had before. Everybody can imagine how tough it is if you go down to 60 pst. of the income. Then it will be phased out in February. The government should already announce that the compensation scheme will last for the next six months, providing security for all self-employed people – the taxi driver, the tourist business and all the others who are active. We in the Center Party believe that it should not be 60 pst, but 80 pst. So to the compensation scheme for businesses: why should you have the unforeseeable that you should just have it for the first winter months and not for the next six months? It would provide security, opportunity to plan, and not the desperation you see in many companies now. Norwegian aviation is an enormously important industry for Norway, and it is important that we have On Island, that we have SAS, and that we have Norwegian, which binds Norway in the way they do, with thousands of jobs. The government has announced that there will be a compensation scheme or a thought around a compensation scheme in January/February. Why not bring it now, have a complete plan, show that you have the power and the will to save Norwegian jobs? Then there's a tightening of the law of permacy that's very, very unwise. When the leave came, we said that the government would take a greater part of the cost, but then the government has increased it to take the first ten days with the employer. It makes a lot of companies don't dare take people in, because they're afraid they'll have to start permitting again all of a sudden. We should have created more security for companies that resume their business. There's a lot of things you could say in the situation we're in right now. But what all of us who sit as elected voters have to remember is that even if there are limits to whom we can meet, we have to talk to people. Is it ever time we talk to people, whether you're in the Right, the Labour Party, the Center Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party or the Advance Party, it's now. It's very scary that the elected representatives move further away from those they're supposed to represent, in a situation where more and more people have it tough. Then the government moves further away from those it's supposed to represent. I understand why it's like that, but then we have to use the phone, use the resources we have, like to visit companies in our own community, because there's a lot of people who have a hard time. One of the most effective measures we have taken in the case of early leave is to use the municipalities as an active tool to get the wheels started. That is why we believe that the municipal structure that is currently located here from the government is far too bad. First of all, we need to ensure that there are schools, hospitals and basic services near people, basic day-to-day operations. But we also need to use the municipalities as a counter-cyclical measure. We did so during the financial crisis in 2008, and in retrospect it turned out to be one of the most effective measures – the launching of small construction projects around the whole of Norway, which creates activity, provides security and improves the welfare conditions for you and me and everyone else living around the municipalities. That's why we've done 3.3 billion. kr to it. Then there is a huff that we in the Central Party have had for many years, and that we managed to get a majority opinion on in the context of the action packages. It was: how can we use public investment to create more Norwegian jobs? Public investments and purchases are approximately 550 B.C.E. kr per year. So there are huge purchases from the public sector in Norway. Then we got a note that we were trying to stimulate more Norwegian in public procurement, but it has not been followed up by the government. We have tabled a new proposal in the Stortinget today, proposal No. 243, where I hope the Stortinget can support that we encourage the government to change the purchasing policy, demand, climate requirements and other requirements, which means that there will be several Norwegian industrial companies, several Norwegian suppliers that create Norwegian jobs. Because it's tough for many, and we have to do everything we can to get the time off, keep the wheels running and develop the whole of Norway. I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e560	It was assumed by the President that the representative would do so. The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum then brought up the proposal of the Centre Party. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e567	Talking to people and listening to people now are important. We've been able to do that over the year. Now a lot happens on Teams and screens because we can't travel around as we should, but I share the representative's assessment that those stories are strong. The companies that are now affected have less on book, less in cash, and they are more vulnerable. A great many of them are in the municipalities and depend on the municipalities being assigned. We remember from the financial crisis when we put together the government, the representative and I, that there was a commitment to activity in the municipalities that contributed to small and large enterprises out there being commissioned. One in seven jobs in a municipality. The municipalities are the front line in the fight against infection, and from the Workers' Party we have been concerned that the municipalities have too tight a economy and have to implement cuts. It's going to go beyond both work and infectious diseases. My question to the representative is whether the Central Party agrees with the Workers' Party that a new government should invest more in the municipalities, more in activity, more in competence – in our municipalities around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e575	We in the Center Party have over time been very clear that we want a Center Party-Work Party-based government. Some of the reasons why this is precisely because we want to develop the whole of Norway, with a practical, ground-based thinking about how we can get effective action quickly. One of the things that can be effective is using the municipalities as an instrument. Of course, point one is that we have the school, that we have the nursing homes, the safe, public welfare services around the whole of Norway, in large and small places, and that we should actively use the policy to ensure that it is also in places that are struggling. The second point – which was one of the great successes of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party at last – was that municipalities were used as counter-cyclical measures. The small joiner company, the small plumbing company and other local businesses were able to take on the activity and the wheels. We are concerned that we are now underestimating the slowdown it is in parts of construction, especially in construction. That's why the Center Party and the Workers' Party are all in line. We have to use the municipalities actively to get the free time down and keep the wheels running.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e580	There are very many good promises for good purposes in the Centerpart budget, but at the same time it is well that money use should ideally be linked to politics, what we call the '# whole'. One thing is that the Center Party is more involved in oil money than they might have been. They actually use more than the Working Party and Red together. In addition, the Party uses the money released by the Reform Party is declared opponents of, for example: The ABE reform, or the railway reform, that has saved the community for 12 billion. kr. This money balances the centre part of the road and asphalt bet with – etc. Does the Central Party think it's credible budgeting to spend money that you don't have or really wouldn't want to have, when you're a party that wants to rule the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e585	That calculation of the railway reform is a typical propaganda calculation that brings out 12.5 billion. kr. It's not like it's 12.5 billion. kr less for railway purposes and purchase of railway services in the budget of the year than it was in 2013. It's just going to be a fictional way of calculating ahead of time. But that's the right very good one. They have an enormous number of PR advisors who make spins on most, ranging from near-police reform to local democracy reform, which is a coercive reform, so it's Right Master's exercise. They hire people from First House. Every four months, a new State Secretary will appear from there. So to the oil money business. We have 0.1 per million higher oil money. We use 0.1 per million more of the oil wealth. Let's use 3.5 pst. It is the same as Norway’s Bank’s assessment of oil money consumption for 2021. We think it's absolutely right, absolutely necessary, and I think unfortunately it might turn out to be too small because the time off is so high. It's a conscious priority. We'll get people to work. It's a job for us all to make sure it happens, and that's why we use more oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e592	Let me follow up a little bit more on the use of Monopoly money. Unlike the majority of the Norwegian people, the Centre Party will notify us out of the EEA. I’m not going to go into what it can mean for well-being, but I’m sorry to say that the EEA contribution is tied up in agreements that go beyond years. At the same time, there is EU cooperation that actually ensures Norwegian access to the corona vaccine. Does the representative Vedum mean 3.6 billion? SEK of the EEA funds that we are obliged to pay out under the agreements we have are real money that can be used for other purposes in the budget for 2021, i.e. used twice? Isn't this really just air money? The evening post says that there is a policy that is not in line with Norwegian interests, which will fail Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e597	I am glad that the United Kingdom is now going to start vaccination next week, they are launching a vaccine program. They do not choose to be members of the European Union and are on their way out. Of course, what worries me most about vaccines are those countries that are not the economically strong countries, but the economically weak countries. The center party is, quite in line with what I feel is also the Right is, active followers of vaccine cooperation, to help countries that have less resources than us to get it. We're very clear on this. With regard to the criticism of EEA funds, it is okay for the Right to read its own budgetary settlements, what was done in the revised national budget last year, when the Right cut in EEA funds, and what the Right has done in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, where the Right has financed its promises by cutting 250 million. in the EEA appropriations. The center part has a stability, and we don't think the growth it's been set up for was right. Obviously it doesn't seem right either, because they cut 250 million. kr today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e604	I feel that most speakers have talked about a broad spectrum of their policies, about what they want to implement, while the representative Vedum talked most about what he was displeased with with other parties. It's okay to point out what you're dissatisfied with, but I think we're very often heard the representative Battle Violence Vedum talk about everything that's wrong, but very little about solutions. There are many policy areas where I would like to hear more about what the Vedum and the Senter Party mean. Immigration, for example, Vedum rarely talks about it. I'm not going to expect you to pull out your entire policy now – it might have been done in a minute – but I can challenge it on one question. We are now proposing – and trying to have a majority – to extend temporary residence from three to five years, as Mr Listhaug explained in his speech. In order to address that in a concrete way, I would like to ask: what does the Central Party really mean about that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e609	I believe the representative of Engen-Helgheim has chosen not to listen so much to the article that was held in place. What I was talking about instead was basically not the policies of the Progress Party or the Right. I talked about all those who are unemployed, all the businesses that are struggling, and what one has to do for few people in work – and especially for those who are outlawed. That's what I'm genuinely concerned about, I'm extremely concerned about it. I met cabin crew in Norway in front of the Stortinget, and they were crying. It affects me very much, and we have to do what we can to get as much out of work as we can. It was the Central Party that took the initiative for the national agreement on immigration policy in 2015, precisely because we wanted it. Then there was a need for a tightening up, there was a need for security, there was a need for a broad solution. We were able to do the same, and the Progress Party based its government policy on that in the aftermath of 2015. If Engen-Helgheim had read our alternative budget, he would have seen that we have wiser and better solutions also for quota refugees, who would have helped more. We're not saying that everyone has to come to Norway, but that we have to think practically and how we can help as much as we can – a good solution, a practical policy where people are in focus, but where it's not about doing the most to get here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e616	I listened with interest to the exchange of lines between the Centre Party and the Workers' Party on the importance of the municipal economy and our municipalities. We know that it's out in the municipalities the welfare is created. We also know that it is out in the municipalities that you have really stood in the front line in the fight against this pandemic and the management of its consequences. This can be seen – from Oslo, which has been the epicenter of the pandemic, to tourist municipalities and winter sports such as Tynset, or Trondheim municipality, for that matter, all over the country. Therefore, I wonder why the Senterpartiet has chosen not to give even more to the municipalities in its budget. Now there's 3 billion. kr to the municipalities of the Central Party budget, SV has prioritised 5 billion. kr, because we know that strengthening the local economy is so crucial. To the extent – given the use of oil money, which has been in the debate earlier, a person would think that he could afford even more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e623	When you look at the central part of the community, it's very powerful. One is that we're increasing the free income by 3 billion. NOK to the municipalities, and then it's SEK 1.6 billion. kr to county councils, among others in order to reduce holiday costs and ensure that Norway is bound together. In addition, we're adding money to what's called resource-intensive services, a difficult word, but it's for those who have to have the greatest care needs, and a little over 3 billion. to counter-cyclical measures. We believe that there is a strong and heavy commitment on the municipalities, which means that good schools and good health homes can be secured and that those who have the greatest need – those who are called resource-intensive users, people who have extra challenges – should receive an offer. At the same time, the efforts made by the counties to keep ferry costs and ferry prices down and to bind Norway together in a good way. That's why it's a good bet, we mean, and then people get to judge for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e630	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e635	This year we have seen how much well-being and community mean. We've seen how important it is to a health care system with enough people at work, how important the kindergartens are in our children's lives, how competent teachers have thrown around when the children had to be at home, how the health care staff became infected, and how the shopkeeper became a everyday worker. Many of those that society pays least in wages are the ones that we have now appreciated most. And I know that many of these are worn out now. Thank you to those who have set up and stood on! This year, many people have been permitted or lost their jobs. Many companies have had to get emergency aid from the state. Here at Stortingen, SV has been involved and contributed to the community being there to give people an income to live off and to secure jobs. We know that such a society does not come about by itself. It's the sum of political choices that determine whether we have a welfare state that is ready to accept us and that gives everyone the freedom to live the life they want. After almost eight years of civil government, this well-being has gradually deteriorated. The economic differences have increased, and those that have the least are left with less. This weakens trust and glue in society. It is time for a new majority, a new government, to put the community and future generations first. SV is ready to take Norway forward. So we're on the starting line of a decade full of opportunities, where well-being is being expanded and not reduced, where Norway actually reaches the climate goal of becoming the world's first zero-emission society. In this decade, we are going to achieve climate goals by cutting emissions, creating new jobs and giving people a better daily life. In the SV's alternative budget, we present a green new ‘deal’, which is Norway's way out of the economic crisis and out of the climate crisis. The whole economy has to be shifted in the green direction. We're going to convert the oil nation of Norway into a climate nation. The financial market shall invest in green projects – not in grey ones. Our industry must and will be a zero-emission industry. The fleet shall be on clean power and the ships along the Norwegian coast and the trucks through the Groruddalen on hydrogen. CO 2 shall be caught both in Grenland and on Klemetsrud, and the railway, the T-Bahn, the City Railway and the buses shall go where you are going when you need it. Too many people don't have a job now, and too many of them are young. We're going to get people to work, and we're going to have a working life where it's good to go to work, with permanent and full jobs, trust and enough employees. In a time of crisis, we need to have a crisis policy, where we build the country through broadband development, road and track maintenance, port upgrade and construction of new student homes – to mention something. In a time of crisis, we also need to ensure that jobs are safeguarded. The compensation scheme must save our cultural life and meet all the businesses that fall outside today – like the outdoor industry here in Oslo. We also need safe people's income, so that people have something to live with and the differences don't get too big, because everyone wins on a society of small differences. The local economy needs to be strengthened so that the well-being of the people can be strengthened. The housing market must go from being a difference machine to becoming a balancing driver. We're going to spend the big money on good kindergartens and school, where all the kids get to play and learn. The child's insurance is going up, and free SFO is going to be rolled out across the country, because we've seen the difference it's made here in Oslo. Through the SV support scheme, the richest will contribute far more than today, while most people come out in plus. Yes, in fact, people are left with far more than the Advance Party and the government's arrangement will give them. We need a new policy for the country, a policy that takes Norway into the climate age, where we cut emissions and build the zero-emission society. We need a policy to reduce the differences, to create a society with even stronger communities and even stronger well-being. We in SV are ready. I finally brought up the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e664	Then the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e671	The SV's alternative budget is both a major attack on Norwegian business owners and a budget that is hard on the coast. How can I say that? Well, first of all, you raise the tax on working capital to 100 p.m., all the way up. While we're talking to others with shipyards, car workshops and hotels that are now in crisis and see red numbers, SV believes it's the right medicine to ask these owners to get more money from a company that's already naked. They will eliminate and replace the entire tax system for the oil and gas industry, an industry that employs hundreds of thousands of jobs across the country, but especially along the coast. While the majority of this room negotiates better conditions, SV will further increase unforeseeability. Finally, SV will scrape the whole ferry-free E39 and believes it is best that our export companies have to line up, have uncertainty and less efficient roads – three grips that hit the coast hard. My question is, are any of these points from the SV's alternative state budget wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e678	Mr. Svein Harberg had taken over the President's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e683	I think it was a good list of SV policies for smaller differences and for green conversion. Where the representative from the Right is talking about working capital, we're talking about removing the stock discount in the wealth tax, the tax on the wealthiest in Norway on personal wealth, which is absolutely crucial to increase if we're to ensure both that the differences go down, and that we get money into the community, which we can spend again on targeted welfare, on better roads in the districts, and not least on targeted schemes now to get into activity along the coast. Therefore, maritime nutrition has been satisfied with many of the measures proposed by SV during this year. Then it is absolutely right that we change the oil tax regime when SV proposes a cash flow tax that is neutral and does not subsidize the oil expansion in the Barents Sea, as the majority would like. It is quite obvious that we want to scrape the plans for a ferry-free E39, for the convenience of wasting the community's resources you have to look for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e690	It was a useful clarification. SV has also gone high in attacking us for oil money. Firstly, unlike the Swedish Government, we implement the whole rule of action, precisely using the space for action on growth-promoting tax relief – to roads and railways, research and education – rather than lubricating it thinly. Secondly, this government has reduced the level of the rule of action from 4 pst. to 3 pst. The fact that we have now submitted a budget including a package of measures of 3.2 pst. and a budgetary settlement of 3.3 pst. is not contrary to the rules of action. That's exactly how it's going to be used. It's true that SV spends at least oil money, but they also increase taxes enormously. Does the SV understand that it is precisely the tax policy they are pursuing that will weaken the government's financing by the decline in value creation and that therefore more money must be taken out of the oil fund in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e697	Increasing taxes on them with the largest assets is not contributing to the decline in value creation in Norway, on the contrary. Internationally one sees both the recommendation and the great movement towards increased taxation of property, of inheritance, of property. It contributes to increased productivity, especially when it can help reduce the tax on labour income, which is what SV does in their scheme, so that most people get into plus. So it's interesting to hear the Right Representative's attempt to describe the meaning of the rule of action and what's in it. I can assure the Right that lowering taxes on alcohol, tobacco and chocolate is not part of the rule of action, and it is definitely not sensible to use oil money. What the right is doing, as a rejection request, is weakening the state's finances by using the unimpeded oil fund, which they've done in the last eight years. They have thus ensured that Norway is less rusted for this decade.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e704	SV is a party that is incredibly happy to spend other people's money. Only next year they'll pick up almost 20 billion. kr extra from Kari and Ola Nordmann. In spite of this, there will be more toll, less roadway and less freedom of choice in the care of the elderly, to mention something. Not only are they happy to spend other people's money, they also love to spend money from industries like the bulls like the plague, and which they would prefer to put down as quickly as possible. Around 318 B.C.E. they use values generated in Norwegian oil and gas activities. If SV had got what they wanted many years ago, that money would not have been here by now. Then they would have had to increase the taxes instead, similar to their bets. This had meant NOK 105 000 in extra taxes and taxes per person employed in Norway. Is it a dream scenario for a future where SV can implement its policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e711	Contra-actual history is an interesting exercise to do from Stortinget's pulpit, and it's also interesting to hear that the representative of the Progress Party is talking about other people's money, as if the oil fund isn't. The Oil Fund, which perhaps the Advance Party is most eager to tap – and which would not have been found if the Advance Party had got its way – is also the community's money. It's the community's money that they so generously spend on tax havens, on welfare profiters and people with the very largest dwellings, according to the last budget unit. I really want to remind this hall that small differences are good for the economy. Small differences result in growth in the economy. It is not a dream scenario for the Norwegian economy that differences continue to increase as they do today, where the richest can pull off and boost their wealth. And that's also what happens. Therefore, I would rather recommend the representative of the Progress Party to take a look at SV's arrangements, where most people come out in plus, which would be better for the conversion of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e716	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e721	The representative Listhaug points out that she is now finished with the Left and Christian People's Party. On the left, I would like to say that I am pleased that we have a budgetary unity with the Progress Party this year, a budgetary unity based on agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party for eight years, and which continues the main efforts for the Left, whether it is climate action, to take care of nature, to invest in knowledge or to create jobs. The country is in a very serious situation. The coronary crisis is a danger that will have a long-lasting effect, and right now there is a need to tighten up the measures to prevent infection, so that we do not lose control of increased infection. The economic downturn and backsliding have had a major impact on many, not least small businesses, including here in Oslo, which are now also lacking liquidity. So for the Left, it is important and essential that we have adopted a crisis package in the supplementary position of the government. It was also important that we put this in place and presented it early, so that we could show that we want to strengthen the compensation system, and that we have put in place a better system for freelancers and self-employed people. We're cutting greenhouse gas emissions. We've done it in the last four years, and it's within reach that we can achieve the climate targets we've set for 2020. However, from 2020 we need to move forward quickly. By 2030 we will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50-55 pst. We will do so in cooperation with the EU, and we will have to do so in cooperation with Norwegian business. We are increasingly seeing that climate action is driving industrial development, and this will be reinforced in the years to come. In the next year's budget, we're increasing the CO 2 tax. It's increasing, and it's expanding. We have an increase of 6.5 billion. kr for climate-friendly transport, whether rail, which is based on a reinforcement also over the past few years, or public transport, and then perhaps specifically directed towards the major cities, where there is support for the Fornebubanen in Oslo, the Urban Railway in Bergen, the Bussvejen on Nord-Jären and metrobus in Trondheim. The electric car benefits are being passed on. We need to achieve the goal of just selling zero-emission cars in 2025 in order to achieve the larger climate target. We have absolutely extraordinary results. Now in November was 53 pst. of electric cars sold. We also increase the turnover requirement for biofuels. Now it's up to 24.5 pst. And it's going to be next year. But we have to do the bet with Norwegian business. That is why we have a continuous commitment to new, green technology, with increased appropriations for research. There is an increased allocation for green shipping, which is also reinforced by the agreement with the Progress Party. We have a green platform of 1 billion. kr over three years. There is investment in hydrogen and circular economy, there are increased funds for Nysnø, and we have a high allocation, which has been reinforced over many years, in the environmental technology system and to Enova. Not only Norway is in crisis. We are a world in crisis – because of the pandemic, but also because of conflicts. That is why it has been important for the Left – and we are pleased with the agreement that we are holding the Granavolden platform – that we should receive 3,000 quota refugees to the next year as well. But the world is also in a climate and nature crisis, so it is important that we also hold on to 1 pst next year. of GDP to aid. Not only do we have a climate crisis, we also have a natural crisis, so within this effort it has been important for the Left that we maintain the rainforest rate at the same level as we have had in the past. Finally, the major industrial investment that is new in this budget is carbon capture and storage. This is what we are going to do next year – a significant state effort. It's a technology that the world needs to reduce its emissions, and it's a technology that the world needs to achieve its climate goals and keep global warming down to 1.5 degrees. Here we're now taking a leading position internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e749	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e755	Ola Elvestuen, together with the other fiscal politicians, has probably been locked up in a room for a month. You'd think they've discussed the big questions in our time. But when the agreement came on Monday, it was not the big questions that were discussed – it was talked about alcohol taxes, it was talked about whether to give priority to refugees according to their beliefs. That's what they had been locked up and discussed. So Ola Elvestuen said in his post that the electric car benefits continue. There is a truth to modification, for this government has now introduced a charge on road insurance for electric cars. The reason was that the left had been passed to increase the CO 2 component of the one-off charge. But when the agreement came, this winner to the left was total zero out. Therefore, my question to Ola Elvestuen is: Will electric cars have more or less benefits in 2021 than they had in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e765	They want the same benefits in 2021 as they had in 2020. What's absolutely crucial is that we have a system that makes people buy electric cars. From August 2013, when we first passed 5 pst. So we've gone over 50 pst. sales. This benefit is also passed on to next year, and as models also increase, there is no reason why we do not get an increase in electricity cars also in sales to next year. We're where we need to be to achieve our 2025 goal. Yes, you have to pay the supplement with this annual fee, which is probably the same level as for motorcycle, for next year. It will not affect the sale of electric cars, but it makes it a little more expensive to own. But it's not unreasonable, and it's the sale that's crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e772	This isn't exactly right. Ola Elvesuen started by saying that there are several advantages, and then he ends up saying that it's a little bit more expensive to own an electric car. So the entire win to the left was zeroed out with a pen stroke from the Progress Party. That's what was the result of that consensus. Then I have a question about another left-wing victory that I believe was totally zeroed out. This is the case with international aid. Under the Left, renewable energy in developing countries has unfortunately been largely cut. But what was new is that, in the agreement, we also saw that there was a great cut to what the Left has said has been one of their great victories, namely support for the United Nations Green Climate Fund. It was cut at 200 million. to the important work for international climate finance. Ola Elvesuen has been central to this himself, and he knows how important it is. What kind of signal does Ola Elvestuen think that Norway is sending when we're cutting 200 million. kr for this important purpose?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e779	We were the first country to say that we would double the support for the green climate fund – I think it's up to 800 million now. kr every year – and this is not a cut, it is a postponement of that payment. It's also fixed in the consensus, and it's part of the commitment we have. So yes, there's going to be a late payment, but it's just as much paid up to the green climate fund in the years to come, and the commitment remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e784	We hear in the post from the representative Elvesuen that the left measures its success in money use, not in what the result is. One example of this is aid policy; another is climate policy. In the Progress Party's alternative budget, we show a clear direction in how we can implement effective climate change in Norway to an extremely cheap money. Easter forest, it's called. The left has not wanted to be involved in this type of proposal, which is, in fact, a contribution to increasing carbon bonds, reducing emissions and, at the same time, ensuring that it is done in a cost-effective way. Why is Left left standing and measuring its success in how much money they spend on climate action with little effect, rather than implementing measures that can be documented?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e789	I think that you ask the Ministry of Finance, everyone will say that the most effective climate measures are the general charges, especially the CO 2 tax. It goes up by 5 pst. - by 7 pst. in the petroleum sector – and it needs to do so in the future. We're reaching our climate targets. Emissions have fallen in the last four years. We are in the process of achieving the 2020 targets, and we have a commitment to the EU to achieve the 2030 targets. We can't pick that away. In addition, we are implementing measures that bind carbon. It also binds carbon in the old forest, so the forest protection, which we agreed in our time to go up to 10 p.m., is also passed on to next year. Then you have to be careful with reforestation. It must be possible to do so, but it must be done in such a way that it does not weaken biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e801	There are very many people and businesses around Norway who are hard hit, and who fear the future – people who are at risk of losing their jobs, businesses that are at risk of going bankrupt. Just before the weekend, I met a restaurant owner in Oslo who could tell me that he had been crying more in the last few months than in his almost 50-year-old life because the promises that a person is given the impression of should help, do not strike. There are compensation schemes that don't make, there are income insurance schemes that don't make, and now the period of pay on leave has gone up again to ten days, while in the spring it was two days, what one knows, is that just compensation of employees is a very large part of the cost both for restaurants and for some other hard hit industries. Why is the Left and the Government not willing to reduce the period of compulsory pay on leave again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e806	Now it is well in agreement that we submitted with the Progress Party, with the additional setting, reduced again – the five days that would come from the New Year have been taken out again. But when we negotiated here, it was not possible to get decisions quickly enough in the Storting to reduce the employer’s compulsory period of ten days, so that’s part of it. Then, through the agreement with the Progress Party, we have reinforced the compensation system that has now become the whole business. Of course – I also have a lot of contact with the outlife of Oslo – it points out that they have a liquidity problem right now, until they can get the compensation in January, but we will not be able to change it in what is the budget for 2021. In any case, these funds will not be able to reach the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e813	An overall collapse has determined that in 2025 all new passenger cars sold shall be zero-emission cars. In the autumn, the government introduced a traffic insurance tax on electric cars. On 7 October, the Minister for Climate and Environment defended the electric car tax with the government also increasing the CO 2 component of the one-off fossil car tax. And in the United Nations on 14 October, the Minister for Climate and Environment writes that it is necessary to make it more expensive to buy polluting cars in order for us to achieve the climate goals. The electric car benefits are being passed on, says the representative Elvesuen. No, they don't. The progress party received a pass on Tuesday to remove the price increase on polluting cars. So the left has joined a scheme that makes it more expensive to own an electric car and cheaper to buy a polluting car. My question is, how can the Left help to remove that grip, which, according to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, is absolutely necessary for us to achieve our climate goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e821	It will not be cheaper to buy a traditional car, or a polluting car. It goes on as this year, so there won't be any change in that CO 2 component. But that's the system we have today, which has made the sale of electric cars over 50 pst. – a formidable change. There we have results like no other country, and we are on our way to achieving the 2025 target. And what you now have to pay – less than what a traditional car owner has to do, the same as if you have a motorcycle – is not going to make it less sales of electric cars. There is no reason therefore to switch to buying a polluting, traditional car, where this cost will also be higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e829	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e835	I thought I would start by thanking you for your cooperation and for getting us a deal on the state budget. This is the eighth year in a row these four parties have agreed on a budget agreement, and we have the same thing as last year's measures to give and take to figure out a deal that now gets multiples. 2020 has been a year that we're going to remember for a long time to come. It was the year when we learned what is in the words «decommissioning» and «social distance». Too many people have been – and are – a heavy time, as we have not been able to have close contact with others in the same way as before, have not been able to gather more people, have not been able to visit our neighbors or have not been able to give a good hug. It's hard. The coronary apathy has led more children and young people, families and older people to a vulnerable situation. Many can experience much social isolation and loneliness. In addition, the reduction in teaching provision in spring 2020 has resulted in an increased risk of non-compliance in continuing school in the future. The pandemic has had a significant impact on the family economy, which can make the situation at home more difficult. Krisa frames skeptical, and some children and families are more vulnerable than others. People from low-income families with little or no formal education are overrepresented among those who have become unemployed. Children's families also seem to have been more vulnerable than families without children. Government action packages and deals with the Progress Party are important contributions to reducing the impact on the most vulnerable and vulnerable among us. The budget for 2021 is a budget marked by the pandemic. Never has it been more important for us to have a budget adapted to the situation in that country. This budget has also given priority to children, and it has given priority to families. Children's unemployment has increased by NOK 3 600 for children up to 6 years. Child welfare has remained silent for 20 years. Since the Christian People's Party went into government, we have increased her by $8,200 for that age group, and we know that increasing child welfare is an important step in strengthening the economy of families with children and in reducing child poverty. Moreover, economics should not be an obstacle to having children. Students and others who have not lit up for parental leave are now getting a little above 90 000 kroner in one-time social assistance. In 2013, when the Christian People's Party began negotiating the state budget, it was supported at approximately NOK 35,000. So this is going to be an increase of $55,000. Bad economy prevents many children from participating in activities in the same line with others. For example, we know that elephants can be prevented from participating in school leisure because of too high rates. In the budget, the government proposes 158 million. to reduce SFOs for families with low income. We've now got multiples for that. The Government Party and the Advance Party have negotiated, and we've managed to get a deal in place. We're happy with that. It's not a secret that there are also things that the Christian People's Party did not want to prioritise in this agreement itself, but I think the wholeness of what's going on now is good. It is good for the country that we have a budget agreement in place. It's important for Norway that we are also aware of our international responsibility at a time when the entire world is struggling with the effects of the pandemic. This has not been the time to move away from the GNI target and cut off the aid to the poor of the world. It is also no time to close the door for those who need a safe port. Therefore, I am pleased that we have managed to stand firm on the goal of 3,000 quota refugees and 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. We are also continuing with the green tax shift, and we are continuing with a climate policy that has managed to get rid of it. Now that we have some agreement, we have a budget that shows the way through and out of the crisis, with measures to take postponing industries in Norway, a budget that will contribute to activity throughout the country. We have to deal with the health crisis we face, and we have to create security for the workers. In this way, we also make the way to a sustainable welfare society. It would have been the upper hand that these parties have become a few when they have created budgets for the last seven years, and that is what is important now when we are in a situation that is more demanding for the country and for the world than I think any of us could imagine when this process began.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e860	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e865	This is a budget that shows the way out of the crisis, said the representative Storehaug. Actis – Rusfeld’s cooperative body, which I am absolutely sure the representative knows well, is very concerned about the decline in alcohol taxes and points out that vulnerable children will get worse. What are the expectations of the representative Storehaug about the effect of the drop in the alcohol charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e870	In the budget unit that is in the lead, which is going to get more today, there is a reduction in the alcohol tax on beer and wine for the next year by becoming between 6 and 7 pst. lower than last year. The government had in its proposal added up to an increase of 3.5 p.m., in line with the price increase. There is now agreement that they should be 6-7 pst. lower. I think it is important, and the Granavolden platform also states that the main lines of Norwegian alcohol policy should be fixed. That means that we have a ban on advertising, that means that we have a restrictive guess policy, and that also means that we have a high alcohol charge. Norway was among those with the highest alcohol taxes in Europe this year. We're going to be next year too. What I mean is good, because having a solid alcoholic policy is about setting up for the most deferred groups among us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e877	This was a little bit of a new pace from the Christian People's Party. Does the representative Storehaug really distance himself from the fact that the price has an impact on alcohol consumption? Doesn't that mean anything? Or is it that the government is actually much more important than vulnerable children?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e882	The answer to that is no. That's how price has an effect. That's why Norway is among the highest alcohol taxes in Europe this year, and we're going to be there next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e887	Before the Christian People's Party came into the government now last, they had a long, but far from loving tradition in which each year they demanded increased fees in meeting the Progress Party in the budget negotiations. This led to increased fees for joy for the Christian People's Party and to the greater sorrow in the Advancement Party. Now that trend has turned – and it is good. The budget we are adopting today is the historic tax haven. Over 7 B.C.E. kr cut, and since 2013 the total tax burden has now fallen in total. It is also gratifying that there is an agreement to cut the taxes on beer and wine. In fact, what Bondevik said on the TV 2 news a month ago, that it is quite possible to get with the Christian People's Party on tax cuts – also on alcohol. What has happened to the Christian People’s Party since they have now seen the light and understood that lower taxes are a good thing for most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e896	It is quite right, as the representative actually indirectly says in his statement, that the Progress Party has got some good wins in this budget that we are now a few on. Then it is that when we make budget agreements, it is this year that it has been before, and I also said that in my statement, the different sides have to give and take. This has not been a priority for the Christian People's Party. What I'm glad is that our party has been able to cope with the eight years we've created a government budget, is that we've got a tax change where we've increased the fees on what we really don't want anymore, like. pre-emissions and CO 2 emissions. We have reduced the taxes and taxes on what we want more, for example. Norwegian ownership. These have been important priorities, and I also believe that the soundness of this budget – at least when we look at the eight years we have created a budget – really shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e904	The representative Storehaug and I come from the same part of the country, and there are many travel businesses that are now hard-wearing because of a market that disappeared. At such tough times, government should help to create security through long-term measures, but this is not the case. The government creates insecurity by double the travel income from summer 2021 – at a time when the market will in no way be normalised. The half of VAT should be extended by the year as proposed by the Central Party. It creates insecurity with compensation schemes that are far too short-term. There are many seasonal businesses in travel that fall outside. Now several large winter destinations will try to keep open. Today the Prime Minister says they're going to stay up until Christmas, but then we know nothing. It creates insecurity, it creates fear of what can happen. What will the Christian People's Party and government do to create safer and far more sedentary conditions, so that the great and important tourism industry can cope with the tough corona era without the insecurity they feel with the short-term measures that the government comes with?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e911	I mean the unity that now lies ahead, in itself is an answer to the question from the representative of Navarsete. Targeted action is now available for some industries. And not only that – we also reinforce and implement the general compensation scheme that applies, among other things. The tourism industry. That's what I think is right, and I think that's important. When the government has, in addition to it, extended the wage insurance schemes, it shows that one needs to take measures that are appropriate to the situation in which we live. When we have had the second wave of viruses, one has also been willing to take action. When we talk to the travel operators at home in Sogn and Fjordne, they have always known that there would be a change of pace at some point. The big buses with a lot of Chinese people have a certain thing at some point. It's happened a lot before we thought it would. For this reason, it has been important that when the government has provided packages and we have negotiated them in Stortinget, we also have funds for conversion in these industries, because it is about having a way not only through the crisis, but also beyond – and he must be resilient.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e918	Clearance of work is an important mechanism to ensure the income of those who, because of sickness or injury, need to be prepared for work or disability with the assistance of Nav. In recent years, the government has saved billions of dollars in the AAP. The consequences of the cuts can hardly be misunderstood. This summer’s Nav report shows a significant increase in the proportion of social assistance recipients and disabled people. So, more people are thrown out of the scheme and referred to social assistance, private support or poverty. In the past, the Christian People's Party has opposed these serious sanctions, but is now agreeing to present a budget that not only continues the cuts in redundancy money but also does not extend the benefit for those who have experienced a halt in the follow-up as a result of the coronary crisis. What will the representative Storehaug say to those who now, in the midst of a crisis, lose what they have to live on, without being finished?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e928	To them I would say that it has long been our cross-political agreement that one is forced to address the AAP scheme in Norway, because we have had constant evaluations showing that it does not work according to the intention, that it has not been able to equip people to come back to work – which is the intention of the scheme. Now we also carry on evaluations as it is right and important that one follow up, and I think it is a grapple that has been taken by the Christian People's Party and that has our true ones, such as ours. when we see that the support to the AAP for the youngest recipients is higher than it is for those who are in the corresponding age group and are not on the AAP scheme. Now one sets them the same way with other schemes. What I mean is, I think it's a good move, and I think it's good, because we're forced to give priority and courage to take into account the welfare arrangements we have, so that they work on purpose, that they help people get back to work and create security when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e935	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e940	While I was writing this post, I suddenly had the Kaizers Orchestra song "Heartknuser" on my ear. There are many hearts that are broken this year. There is a lot we have lost – many clips that have been lost, cuttings that have not been taken, and many evil thoughts that have not been shared. I think it can affect our society for a long time. But it has also created a hope for some of us. We've seen what we can do together about those who are in power, taking the lead in what's most important. We have also seen that even though very many people are affected in Norway now, we are, after all, lucky. The Korona crisis, just like the climate and natural crisis, affects most of those who have the least of them before, and we know that drought, floods, races and storms send people on the run every day already, and it increases the level of conflict. It also threatens life, health and the economy in Norway. The Nordics are aware of this. In fact, climate remains the most important issue for Norwegian voters throughout the pandemic. We must therefore be able to get out of the coronary crisis in a way that also solves the climate and natural crisis. The Greens' alternative state budget shows how. So first of all, let's make it easy to pick right. Over half in Norway believe that politicians do too little of the climate, and eight out of ten will make more climate-friendly choices in everyday life themselves, if they just get it done. We want to make it easier to choose healthy food by removing VAT on fruit, green and organic food, not on shower and candy. We're reducing the price of collective, train and ferry by 20 pst. We make it cheaper to share and repair and make it easier to choose an electric car, prioritize the development of charging stations across the country and introduce support for loading points in joint farms and housing units, which the government has also promised, but not delivered. Secondly, we provide green, safe jobs – I will come back to that. And finally, we're making society fairer. We put the taxes down heavily for those who have the least, and up for those who have the most. We reduce social disparities, strengthen family welfare schemes and expand access to public justice. The reason why greenhouse gas emissions in Norway do not decrease is that money is being used incorrectly, and one dares not to make it more expensive to pollute. The agreement with the Progress Party has not improved. The full financing of carbon capture and storage on Klemetsrud, as proposed by the Greens, would have cost 1 billion. kr. In addition, we propose 1 billion. kr for speeding up the sea winch. Let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see 3 billion. kr to This last effort alone could have created at least 1,200 annual works over a two-year period. Nothing of this, which is all good for the climate, the export incomes and the jobs, the government can afford, but they've given 3.4 billion. kr in the fee for chocolate, shower, alcohol and snuff. That goes for a coronary year! In addition, the State budget adopted today increases the traffic insurance charge on an electric car. When this news became known in the fall, climate minister Rotevatn pointed out that the government simultaneously increased the levy on fossil cars, so that the electric car would continue to be competitive in the purchase. But after the negotiations with the Progress Party, this increase in the levy on fossil cars is gone. The result is that it has become more expensive with an electric car and not more expensive with a fossil car. There are still many who fall outside government rescue packages. The situation for students, cultural and service industries is critical now. In total, there are many more than those who work in the oil, but yet there are enormous differences in the government's commitment. That is why we have a number of proposals in our budget for these groups. We give extra scholarships to students who lose work income, and give newly-trained students the right to a daily allowance. We lower the VAT for serving to 15 pst. We help cultural workers, freelancers and self-employed by reintroducing 80 pst. compensation. We also extend the compensation scheme to include the costs of the employer’s leave, interest and food and drink that are lost, and we ask the government to look at the possibility of covering some of the wages. We're also going to add 1 billion. kr extra to mental health, because we know that there are even more people who have broken hearts now. With this, I will address the Greens' proposals to the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e972	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e979	With the Right, we're going to create more. The Green Party will, on its own, reduce our most profitable industry, while proposing a dividend party in Equinor. They say companies are going to change, but send them a tax return of tens of billions. They say the emissions are going down, but in MDG-steered Oslo they go up. It seems that the Green Party is more concerned with symbol politics than with what actually works. So I'm going to ask them a very simple question, and I want an answer to it and nothing else. The government has just given the green light to Rogfast, and the state road authority has determined that the project is more environmentally friendly than the continued ferry operation, even if the ferries go on electricity. Nevertheless, the Greens are proposing to cut the budget. Reply to: Why does the Green Party fight against Rogfast when one knows that the option means greater greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e988	It is true that the Greens do not support new road extensions. It is other scientists who have repeatedly shown that once you expand a road, you get more traffic. There is a logic in the transport research that appears time and time again. The reason is simply that until you get more queues again, because more cars have arrived on the road and you have got more trucks into the dumps, which we do not want, it will pay off, and you get faster, by car. Another reason why we don't prioritize it is economics. We live in a time when we're going to halve emissions in ten years. Then we need to invest in the measures we know cut emissions, in both the short and long term. I am absolutely sure that if the representative from the Right had been a little better at prioritizing, he would have agreed that the transport of goods would have to be transferred to ship and runway. That's where the future lies. Norway is a nation, and then it's strange that we're spending so many billions on expanding Norwegian roads for the transportation of goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e995	We need to give more priority to maritime transport and rail, and we do that in the budget. But I notice that the representative Bastholm will not go into the specific project, but nevertheless is consistent, even though the calculations from the State Road Service show that this will be better in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. So to another question, in the districts, you often need a car to get the goods out and people home safely. Many people depend on crossing a bridge or tunnel, like a bomb. That's also true of all those who commute through Ryfast. Many of them would like to pay more than 60 000 kroner a year just to get to work. We have reduced costs, but the Green Party will not only dramatically increase taxes, but also increase tolls for the district spenders by 1.4 billion. kr. For families in Ryfylke and District Norway, it would amount to thousands of dollars in increased expenses. Why will the Greens want to create such bombing walls against the districts, and why will they exacerbate an already difficult business situation, which will bring the goods forward, and make it spin-off for people who need to get to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1004	I have patience with the fact that there may be misunderstandings in politics, especially if you are very concerned about finding the most possible way to keep up with other parties. The Green Party would be a part of the toll that the government has provided in recent years, because we had not been going for those motorway projects. It is not true that we send the toll bill to the districts. On the contrary, we are committed to keeping traffic growth close to the cities below. It requires some traffic regulation measures, which the government is also involved in countering over and over again, which is very sad, because we also have a big decision to make sure that the growth in the number of passengers entering the cities is done by collective, bicycle and times rather than by car. That's what I thought was a well-known opinion, that it's a good thing to bring down the car traffic into the cities. Then I ask myself how it can be good money use, at a time when we have to halve emissions in ten years, and when we have so much destruction already – we have huge losses of species in the world – to spend money on several motorway extensions around the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1011	The representative of Bastholm has referred to seafarers in very poor order. The progress party is happy in the seamen, and that is why we have put in place a net wage scheme of 600 million. kr. But we feel that the same Bastholm and the Green Party swim well around the oil money, despite the fact that they really want to put everything down. But I understand that it's good to use these oil money, and then you're going to apply 32 billion dollars to people and businesses. kr in increased taxes and taxes. For people living in the districts, an extra 5 kroner on the fuel is a huge cost, with several thousand extra dollars in the future. I have to ask Bastholm to tell if she's really going to lay down the entire District Norway, and that everyone is going to go to caffè latte-cafes in Oslo, and whether Bastholm sees the whole world and Norway from Oslo, instead of seeing the amazing District Norway we have, and that people are going to be able to live and live throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1018	There's a lot of creative storytelling in these questions. To begin with, sailors: I've never meant to talk down seafarers. I have been in contact with the employee organisations about my statement. What we do for the maritime sector in our budget is that we, among other things. uses 1 billion. NOK to ship wreckage and support conversion, which we know over two years will provide 1,200 annual works. It is a significant and very important measure for industry. 2 billion. kr we use for the guarantee scheme, loan guarantees for the construction of ships, and 1 billion. kr to sea wind, which will also be important for the maritime industry. When it comes to our level of fees, it is true that the Green Party is much more willing than any other party to use our charging system to bring about the green changes we need to take care of the future of our young people and to achieve the goals that the government itself has set itself but may not be the favorite target and the action of the Progress Party. There is the Progress Party on its own. Everyone else in Stortinget agrees that we're going to try to halve our emissions by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1029	Emissions in Norway are decreasing. They've done that in the last four years. The Green Party, like the government and the civil majority, has been for many years to use environmental taxes to achieve this goal. In the Granavolden platform, we have an agreement for the first time to increase the CO 2 tax every year, 5 pst. until next year, and it will continue. We have stuck to the car charges that the electric cars must have their advantages. We have extended the scheme for those who have to pay the CO 2 tax, whether it be fisheries, natural gas within shipping or combustion plants for waste. This is what the government stands for. At the same time, there are parties such as the Centre Party, which opposes the need for a CO 2 tax on fisheries and maritime transport. One has a Worker's Party that goes in order that one does not have an electric car advantage. Where does the Greens think that the Greens should be able to make an impact on their tax increases? Is it along with the civil majority that has shown that we do it, or is there anyone else you think it'll be easier with?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1044	I believe emissions in Norway are falling far too little. They've gone down 3 pst. The last year, but they have to go down 5 pst. Every year towards 2030, in order to target the emission reductions we need. Then I would recommend the government parties to hie at cities like Oslo, which get emissions cut, instead of repeatedly, as I see both Left and Right do, to bring forward old figures from 2018, when the emissions over Norway otherwise went up. I believe that the government is completely out of line with the polluter-pays principle that stands in the Granavolden platform. When you increase the CO 2 tax by 5 pst., you avoid making it work in the transport sector, i.e. in car traffic, because you have reduced the user charge just so much that you ensure that there is no more for the driver when he is going to fill in the tank at the service station. That means that the basic mechanism for using the market, for which I thought the Right and the Left were for, to make the environment win, you don't relate to yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1054	At the same time, emissions are falling. We are in the process of achieving the 2020 target, and we have an agreement with the EU that we will achieve the 2030 target, so we need to have a higher pace to achieve it. My question was really with whom the Greens think it is easiest to get a green tax shift. On the part of the citizens, we've shown that we've done it, and we have results, while there are other parties, the Center Party and the Workers' Party, who don't want to go that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1061	What I tried to answer was that I do not agree with the basic premise here, which is that the government delivers to the climate. That's exactly why our national government wants a change of government. We believe that the government of Erna Solberg has not delivered on the greatest challenge of our time. This also applies to the destructions that this government has suffered from all day, by restricting the ability of the statesmen to put down their feet against the destruction of the natural environment and the degradation of food around the municipalities. It makes us really stand and have to deal with two scenarios, because the policy in Norway seems to be block-sharing: either talk to Erna Solberg first if she were to lose the majority and we're on the tip, or with Jonas Gahr Støre and SV. Then we have said that we believe that the job that has been done so far for the last seven and a half years does not provide enough confidence for us to start the talks with a Right that is also dependent on the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1066	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1071	Many people are looking forward to 2020 being a story. This has been a heavy year for everyone, for workers in particular – for those who have lost their jobs, for those who have worked more than ever in the first line of welfare, in our shops and on our roads. Those who have received income savings overnight have taken the highest cost of the infectious measures on behalf of all of us. Now many are inside their second round with a state of emergency and are facing Christmas with great concerns. The draft budget agreed by the Government and the Advance Party makes no promises that 2021 will be better, on the contrary, the New Year's Eve marks the end of several important crisis arrangements. The more than 200,000 people who are out of work have probably had the longest hope that the Progress Party would come to their rescue, but once again the party shows that the slogan "For the most people" is the marketing bluff of the times, because in the negotiations they have not used a single calorie to secure the income of the laymen and the unemployed or to provide people with security for the future. When the bank account is scraped and the queue is long, there will be a lean comfort with a little cheaper beer and wine. It's almost so you hear Marie Antoinette when Siv Jensen talks: let them eat chocolate. Red will also cut a number of charges that are unfair, but we do so after securing the income of people, and we cut taxes on what everyone needs: electricity, food, transport, repairs. However, those who have been rescued by the Progress Party in the budgetary conciliation are the 6 000 persons with the most expensive housing. So, after two rounds of cuts in property taxes this year, they've found another place to cut, they're removing the planned property tax on expensive luxury villas, and it's a little bit of a priority when hundreds of thousands are out of work and need security of income. Red will continue to work for targeted crisis packages for workers, jobs and the environment, and it will permeate our draft budget. There we go to ensure that the low pay supplement on the daily allowance is valid for all the unemployed and is made permanent. We reintroduce the holiday supplement for the day, so that the hundreds of thousands who have been without a job in 2020 actually get the money to pay the bills when June 2021 arrives. At the same time, we are proposing measures that create jobs, take care of our nature and cut emissions, so that investment in any case creates activity in sectors and regions with a particularly high unemployment rate. Over the last decades, differences have increased with changing governments, all of which, as one, have released commercial profitors into well-being and have kept setting new records in billionaires. You should almost think it wasn't possible to choose another policy, just other politicians. But fortunately, Red's alternative budget shows that a different direction is possible. We are presenting both a radical and realistic budget with offensive welfare reforms and fair environmental policies for most people. Our budget gets down the differences by first cutting the bill base to the people most. We cut the dental bill, the nursery bill, the electricity bill and the price of all the collective tickets. Secondly, we ensure the income of those who cannot or do not get to work, those on disability benefits, redundancy benefits or social welfare benefits. We're strengthening the well-being of everyone with $6.5 billion. kr more to the municipalities and 1 billion. kr more to the hospitals. And we're funding it with fair taxes, no increased income tax for them with less than $600,000 in wages, but significant increase for the richest percentage in our country – those who make over $2 million. kr, those with large assets, those who receive a luxury inheritance or draw a dividend. The red budget for 2021 is what Norway needed — which could ensure income, well-being and security for all — and which could give us a fair and short-lived way out of the crisis. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1090	Then the representative Björn Moxnes mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1097	Defence and security policy is well the area where there is the greatest distance between the Red Party and the Workers' Party, and in this budget kutter Red all the appropriations for fighter aircraft, both to the planes and to the bases. But when I ask Moxnes how he can have a defense of Norway without a fighter plane, he says: It's wrong, Huitfeldt, Red wants a fighter plane. But how can they cut all the money for fighter planes and still claim that the defense needs fighter planes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1102	Red has since one day been opposed to the purchase of fighter aircraft from Lockheed Martin. What we've been saying all along is that these fighter planes are probably very good if we're going to participate in new attack wars, fly into hostile territory, bomb deep down there from a great height with the Americans. Probably, then, it's a sensible and good investment, to participate in new attack wars, but what we want primarily is to strengthen the defence of our country and end participation in American war adventures in other countries. That's why Red in his budget cuts the fighter aircraft buy. Yes, we do, but we also strengthen the Army by 400 million. kr, enters to purchase long-range artillery to increase the army's fighting power, strengthen the Home Guard and retain dedicated helicopter support for the Army. So there are a number of measures in our budget that will strengthen the defence of Norway, but thus, of course, mitigate the possibility of joining in several attacks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1109	This was not an answer. So Norway is the most sea. That's why we need fighter planes, and that's what Moxnes says we're going to have, but he doesn't have a red ear for it. That's what's the point here. One thing is to cancel the American fighter flight purchase, but he won't buy fighter planes from Sweden either. So how on earth are we going to have a free fighter weapon in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1114	It should be known, even for Huitfeldt, that Norway has already acquired a good deal – or very many – of fighter aircraft from the Americans. When we go in order not to buy even more, but so zeroes it out in our budget, there will still be American fighter planes on Norwegian soil. What we've wanted all along has been a different type of fighter plane than what the Workers' Party was in favour of, and where, according to Danish revelations, it may also have been a bit of a slant in terms of the purchase, given the American influence on Norwegian decisions when the Red-Green government ran our country. But our principle is clear: we want to strengthen the defence of Norway. We don't want to spend so much money on fighter planes that we split the rest of our defense. We see that many in Defense say that the F35 is in many ways the builder who pushes both the army and home protection out of the nest, because this is so expensive that other investments appear in the foreseeable future. And it's a problem that more people should take over than just Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1121	What's fundamental is that most of Norway is sea, and the option that Norway has fighter aircraft is that our allies patrol our sea areas, that it becomes more NATO aircraft, more US aircraft. So the most important thing to ensure Norwegian self-determination in Norwegian sea areas is Norwegian fighter aircraft. But when Red will neither buy American fighter planes nor set off a single penny to upgrade the fighter planes we have, nor will he buy Swedish fighter aircraft, what kind of fighter aircraft should Red actually have? I have not received an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1127	What we actually do in the budget is we put the fighting money into a fund for the defence of Norway, and we don't spend the fighting money on anything else, that's to balance other parts of our budget. Then we'll go through the contracts. We want to sell planes and acquire what is best for the Norwegian defense. If the aim is to ensure Norwegian self-determination, both at sea and at land, it is important that we dare to resist the attempts to get involved in the rivalry between the United States and Russia, which Norwegian interests are not served at all. Then we must strengthen the Norwegian defence capability, both to land and to water. We're strengthening the Army in our alternative budget, we're strengthening Home Protection, but we're going to go against the fighter aircraft bargains, which are what we've meant all these years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1132	In this budget, Red takes the first step on the road to introduce a six-hour day. The six-hour day will affect the welfare of both young and older people today and future generations. For Norway's most important wealth is not oil, but people who get up in the morning and go to work. It's the value of our workforce that's our most important asset. It's 83 pst. of our entire national wealth. If we were to reduce working time by just 10 pst. At the same time, with full wages, national wealth would be reduced as much as the total value of oil wealth — both in the fund and in the remainder of the land. This would make us all poorer, and it would lead to lower living standards. It also means lower welfare for children and young people, the elderly and future generations. Not only will Red create his own pot for the six-hour trial project, they also believe that the six-hour day is women's fight. Is it really Red that women like me don't take as much work as men?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1139	The right was in its time against the eight-hour day and the ten-hour day, even the twelve-hour day they were against. They are against any reduction in working time, because they do not realize that lowering the workload for ordinary workers also increases productivity and can reduce sick leave by allowing people to work much longer than they would do with eight, ten or twelve hours of work. Then it's clear that politicians, whether they're women or men, can work until they're 100 years old, because they live to talk. If you're a cleaner, if you work on the floor of an old-age and sick home, or in the industry for that matter, and have a physically heavy, demanding job, it might be a good idea to introduce a reform that reduces working time to six hours – that more people share the job, and that we get more people into work and away from social security and unemployment. It's the recipe to make sure that people can work longer, that we get more people into the job, and that we get more people out of the job queue. It should be something that even right-wing insights are sensible social economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1146	It's not all the big business representatives that have been there from the day they left school. I'm one of them, I have a long seagoing service in the restaurant, I have a long seagoing service in the kindergarten, and I own my own family garden. It's not like I can't stand the workload, that's not why I've become a staggering representative. We're in the middle of a pandemic. Tens of thousands are on leave, and even more are worried about the job they have today, which they may not have tomorrow. Every tenth company in Norway says they're afraid to go bankrupt because of the corona virus. Before the pandemic, four out of five jobs in Norway were created in the private sector, and there is a basis for all growth and activity. It's your right we think we have to go back. Is Red's best incentive to set up new businesses in Vega, Mehamn and Hyler to increase their tax burden?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1153	We're not primarily concerned about the owners of kindergartens, but for those who work there, that's what they say. With regard to our tax policy, our point is that in a crisis, we have to distribute the bill fairly, so that those who go with profits, who go well, contribute more to the community, so that those who labor can get help from the community. So we're increasing the tax on company profits from 22 pst. to 23 pst. That's over 2 billion. kr from those who are going well, to those who are now struggling. In the case of property taxes, the government's own reports have shown that property tax laws do not create any new jobs. It's documented once after. The money we collect can go back to increased value creation, to start infrastructure projects, to investments that provide more jobs – more money in circulation and a better social economy. We're going to go in for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1162	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1167	2020 was a long year of great trials for our entire society. The corona pandemic is a global health crisis that has also become an economic crisis with great consequences for people and jobs. In Norway, infection from the first wave was rapidly reduced, and with extensive financial measures, we have saved jobs and given families greater security for their economic future. According to the OECD, Norway is among the countries that have so far proven the best in terms of health and economy, and in the OECD's latest report of 1 December, they provide strong support for government's fiscal policy in the crisis. But we're still in the middle of the crisis. The crisis is not over. Like the rest of Europe, Norway is hit by a new wave of infection. It's also going to shape us far into next year, and we're going to work on the aftermath for years to come. We don't know how hard it will meet us financially. It will largely depend on how fast and how we can shut down the infection again. Uncertainty is unusual. We have to expect that the economic recovery will lose momentum, and towards the end of this year we can again experience that the value creation is falling. But as it now looks, the decline will not be as steep as it was in ours, and it will not be as wide as it was in ours. This is due both to the fact that the measures to protect infection are less invasive now and to the fact that businesses have learned a lot about how to adapt their operations to the situation. The openness of schools and kindergartens is also of great importance to the economy. In parts of the economy, turnover remains stable. The main challenges are concentrated in some industries and in areas with a high level of infection. The most important thing we can do to minimise the economic impact is to get control of the spread of infection. Economic policy must be adapted to the situation of infection and financial measures must be linked to the measures taken to protect the disease. Throughout the year, we have developed a wide range of economic measures adapted to different phases of the crisis. The arrangements that apply now are adapted to the wave we're inside. The State budget is a foundation and contains a number of measures that will contribute to activity and jobs throughout the country next year. We have prioritised measures to take Norway out of the crisis, such as focusing on knowledge, measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, such as CCS, measures to contribute to inclusion, and measures contributing to better business environment. At the same time, we will also meet the long-term challenges we face, because they will not be less in our new everyday life. In order to meet the new increase in infection, the government proposed in a separate budget contribution early in November to extend several of the income protection schemes put in place during the first wave of infection to implement a new round of compensation for large-scale businesses, and more money for, inter alia. municipalities and the health sector. Since then, the situation of infection has worsened and the measures to protect infection have been further stepped up locally and nationally. I am therefore pleased that the government parties and the Progress Party have agreed on further financial measures; it will save jobs. We propose large sums of money to the health services and municipalities to ensure that they are able to manage the crisis, meet increased costs and maintain the necessary preparedness without jeopardising the other important tasks they perform around the country. We propose our own schemes to promote cultural, voluntary and sporting activities and to facilitate the implementation of events with the restrictions imposed by the Code of Disease Protection. We propose to compensate for loss of income to the collectives, so that we can maintain well-functioning train and collective services through the pandemic. Overall, the budget for next year will contribute to significant activity and employment in the Norwegian economy. The budget will help to save jobs and prevent the end of viable businesses. Included in the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party is an oil money use of 344.6 billion. kr next year. It's about 60 billion. kr less than this year, but much more than before the crisis. The oil money consumption corresponds to 3.3 pst. by State pension funds abroad. In the original draft budget, the rate of withdrawal was 3, but it was before the supplementary proposal, as in particular. would include compensation to the local government sector for increased expenditure related to the pandemic. There are many important considerations to address a situation like this. But three considerations are more important than anything else: We have to prevent unemployment from getting stuck at an too high level. We have to avoid that it is young people and those with weak links to the labour market who end up paying the highest price. And the third – Norwegian business must be diverse and competitive, even after this crisis. The longer the crisis, the more important it is to focus on innovation, on change and on activity. We're neither going to compensate for any loss, nor are we going to be able to compensate for any loss. The arrangements must meet those who need them as best as possible and end when they are no longer needed. It has been right and necessary to spend a lot of money to counteract the negative consequences of the pandemic and the infectious diseases. The option would be less activity, more bankruptcy and lost jobs. We are lucky to have this freedom of action, with a large amount of public wealth and a flexible rule of action that requires us to use fiscal policy to counter crises. At the same time, we must not forget those who come after us. This means, among other things: that we must avoid meeting the pandemic with measures that raise public expenditure on a sustainable basis. On the way out of the crisis, it is important that we give priority to activities that create activity and jobs, but also to actions that contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, that we focus on knowledge and research that will also strengthen long-term sustainability and enable people to get work and work. When the infection situation so warrants, we must gradually step down public money use. We're a lot of people who are getting worn out by the pandemic. It is both exhausting and demanding to face such a long-lasting crisis. But I'm sure we'll get through this wave well, too. No one should doubt that the government is going to do what is necessary to combat the pandemic, to give Norwegian companies the predictability that is possible for a demanding period of time, to have their leave of absence and to feel secure for both economic and health. We have a lot to enjoy in Norway. Just as the Christmas stars now brighten up the December darkness, the many promising vaccine candidates throw both light and hope over the year we have ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1215	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1220	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for the cooperation in the year that has gone by. There is at least one letter between us this week, with different information. I also want, on a day like this, to send a greeting to the employees in his department, who have stood by day and night to provide the decision-making basis for the government, the Stortinget and the Financial Committee in the last year. First of all, I would like to ask for a little clarification from the Council of State. In the Political Quarter this morning, the Council of State said that he would rather spend the money on other things than on the tax cuts that came into the budget agreement on Tuesday. But at hoyre.no, we could read that tax cuts were a hell of a right policy. So I just want to know if these tax cuts are a good right-wing policy, or if they would rather spend the money on other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1227	Let me get back the thank you. I believe that, through the crisis, we have had good cooperation across parties and between government and big business. I think it's been important, not least for people and businesses in the middle of the crisis. To experience that politicians and parties can stand together, I believe has been important. I would like to stress that the Workers' Party has also contributed well to the crisis work we have had. As far as the budgetary agreement is concerned, it is the case that all parties must recognize themselves in it. I also believe that it is right to reduce the charges on goods placed on the border. But I said that if I had been a fiscal politician and a right-hand negotiator, I would have had two to three billion. kr, I would maybe prioritize knowledge more. But that's why we're different parties. The Christian People's Party has been passed, the Left has been passed, the Right has been passed, and the Progress Party has, of course, been put through when they have contributed to a majority for next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1234	Thank you for that clarification. Then I'm going to go over to ask about the last eight years' distribution effect of fiscal policy, because this is the last financial debate before the collapse elections next year. Although the Minister of Finance took over as late as January this year, his party, Right, has led the government throughout the period. For the Workers' Party, it is important to look at the distribution effect of tax policies. Summarized, so far, the thousand richest in Norway have received NOK 600 in tax cuts every day, while nine out of ten have received NOK 2 per day. In my post earlier today, I used the example of a champagne bottle for the rich and an empty carrier bag at the store for the rest – but it is secondary. So the richest have got 300 times more in tax cuts every day by this government. Now that we are in the last financial debate before the roll-call elections, is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the level of distribution in fiscal policy? Is it a suitable level of distribution for the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1242	We have a redistributive tax system. It's like those who earn the most, also pay the most in taxes. At the same time, it is right that the government has prioritised lower taxes, so that families retain more of their own income. An ordinary family will retain NOK 14 000 more in 2021 than one would have if one had continued the red-green tax level from 2013. Yes, we have reduced the tax on working capital. We believe it is right that those who invest their own money in Norwegian jobs should not get a strange tax on top while competing companies from the United Kingdom or other countries should not pay taxes on working capital. It's one of the differences between the Right and the Working Party. I record that the Workers' Party is increasing taxes to next year, including for pensioners. I don't know if the representative knows how many more people get higher taxes on wealth among pensioners in Norway. Since I have calculated all of the other examples, I have also calculated the structure of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1249	Nine out of ten pensioners come out better with the Workers' Party's tax arrangements next year. All this talk about working capital is quite sympathetic rhetoric, for who is working in Norway? Well, there are workers working — electricians, nurses, health professionals, shopkeepers, teachers, etc. Calling capital workers is political novelty. At its national meeting, the Party of the Right has decided to remove all taxes on wealth. But then the central government has apparently canceled this decision and will only remove the stock discount. So if we just stick to cutting the stock discount, it's going to be $7.2 billion. kr. Seven of the 7.2 billion go to the richest tenth in Norway. Now I have asked the Minister of Finance if he is satisfied with the distribution effect that has been. If we look into the next period -- he's satisfied with that 97 pst. of the proposed wealth tax codes of the Right, is the richest tenth in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1256	I guess that's about 15 pst. by pensioners who receive higher taxes on wealth under the arrangements of the Workers' Party. The representative can send me a written question, so he will get a clear answer to that. That working capital should be neo-talk – well, it's no more novelty than that the Workers' Party has used it at least five years ago, and I think ten years ago too. Even the Workers' Party considered it appropriate to reduce the tax on working capital in the 2016 tax settlement, because it is important to build up under Norwegian ownership, but now the Workers' Party has found that it is right to increase the tax on the same jobs. The representative is very concerned with percentageing. I think it is more important that we ask: who is paying these taxes? And what's the tax on? There's treasure on excavators. There are taxes on the fish that are on warehouses. There are taxes at that hotel that don't have guests today. Yes, it is right to reduce the tax on Norwegian ownership. We're going to bet on those who invest their own money in Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1265	To the stock discount first: I think the government council is very aware that the Workers' Party proposes the same for 2021 that we agreed with the Right on in the tax settlement in 2016: to have 20 pst. share discount. It has to do with the fluctuations year by year that the tax should not exceed the market value. But in any case, the Council of State is also aware that in the valuation discount between shares and operating assets, shares account for 90 p.m. of the discount granted by the right-wing government of the day. If we look at fiscal policy and what objectives we are going to have with it, the Labour Party has more objectives: it must promote change, it must promote work, and it must reduce the differences between peoples. Then it's also important to maintain trust in the tax system that we have, that everyone is involved and contributes with their fair share. The Ministry of Finance has calculated for itself what the tax policy of the Right National Assembly will mean for this trust in Norway: there will therefore be 30 000 new zero-tax payers. Is that a contribution to maintaining trust in our tax system?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1272	I think the representative is wise to deal with what the Right says is our tax policy, that we should step down the tax on working capital. It is also an important measure in the current crisis. The state contributes a lot, but we also need to build up among those who invest their own money in Norwegian jobs. There is a lot that can count on the number of zero-tax payers, and so has the Workers' Party's tax regime, which will also lead to more zero-tax payers. We're going to have a fair tax system in Norway. I think the Labour Party and the Right agree. It has to be a progressive tax system, so that those who earn the most also pay the most. But then we want to reduce the tax on work. It is worth working, and it is also worth investing in Norwegian jobs. We need that in the time we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1279	I can also start by thanking the Minister of Finance for the cooperation in the year that has soon passed. There have been many demanding packages of measures that have come on a continuous basis. What we may have experienced a little too often, unfortunately, is that in many of these package measures, despite being sold in advance in the media, there have been some defects both in the device and volume when the packages have come to Stortinget. But the Advance Party and Stortinget have taken responsibility, both for developing the packages and also for ensuring that the device is good. What is important is to create predictability for all the companies and employees out there who experience an extremely demanding time. And now, on a proposal from the Progress Party, Stortinget will decide to ask the government to come back with proposals for new compensation schemes for the period after 1 March, including for aviation. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Finance if he can now guarantee that this work is done very quickly, and that the matters that come to the Stortinget [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1286	The President reminds us that everyone must respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1291	I can confirm that we are already doing well in that work, just as we were doing well with the compensation scheme for the autumn and winter when the Stortinget split up in June, when we had close dialogue with the social partners, just to discuss the challenges we would face for the autumn, and what measures were to be put in place. Then I must also add that I cannot give any guarantee that everyone will be satisfied. We have given priority to quickly getting the money out of millimetres of justice, and we have good and liberal arrangements in Norway. Let me just mention that with our system, companies can get over 80 million. kr per month in November and December; in Sweden it is 30 million. kr for the period August to December. For the other Nordic countries, the money for these months is not paid until next year. But I know that it's urgent, so we have also given the possibility of deferred payment of taxes and also a loan guarantee scheme that gives companies and banks more room for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1298	Then Limi's gonna have time for a new line.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1303	Thank you, President, this should be a little shorter. The Minister of Finance was about this with payments within the scheme we are now deciding to extend. And we see that it's quite critical for a lot of businesses. We could foresee that to some extent even before the summer break, because we knew that this development could reinforce itself negatively. What we also see is that companies that have a very strained liquidity need to get these payments quite quickly, preferably on this side of the year, at least very early in the New Year. It is also difficult, as it exists now, where the scheme is not finally designed, to use it in relation to banks and other financial institutions to obtain a temporary liquidity loan. So what's interesting to hear from the finance minister is what's now done, and how the government can help make these payments come faster than what might have been suggested in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1310	I know that there are too many businesses in Oslo, but also in the rest of the country. Therefore, the government parties and the Progress Party have agreed that we should extend the possibilities of deferred payment of taxes and taxes. It's important. When you struggle with liquidity, it's extra demanding if you get a tax bill from the state. The second is that we have also removed some of the limitations contained in the State loan guarantee scheme. Then it's the banks that have to make the banking judgement, but the opportunity and the space for action is greater for the banks now. My best advice is that the companies prepare the application well, get the auditor's statement, and then I am absolutely sure that the Brønn Island Health Registers are now working on blasting to provide the companies with support as quickly as possible in the new year. Let me just finish again by thanking the Progress Party for good cooperation throughout the year, and not least the cooperation we have had on the budget for 2021. We secure many jobs in common and provide security for many families, and that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1322	Norway is a long-term country with activities, with jobs, with enterprises in both urban and rural areas. Travel life is one of the industries that is very important in a lot of cities and communities around. This summer, I met Jan Olav in Kjøllefjord – about as far north as you can get to the mainland of Norway – who has built up a tourism business that operates with guided tours for tourists who have come with Hurtigruten, traditionally. He was hard hit by the crisis, not because the infection was so great in Kjøllefjord, but because the tourists were missing. He had just sent out notices of leave to all his employees. Towards the next summer, one might hope that a company that Jan Olav lives from can get back up in activity, kneeling. Why should one then double the VAT on travel from the next summer off?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1333	It is true that we have reduced the low rate of VAT as a crisis measure, but our position is that it is not the most targeted system. It's been reasonable throughout the summer when the activity started to take up something, and we've agreed with the Progress Party that we're going to extend it towards the summer. But there are other measures that are more important for travel businesses, first of all, that we are able to control the infection. It's the most important thing to be able to take up the activity. The second is the compensation schemes, which help to compensate them for a proportion of the fixed costs. In addition, we have contributed conversion aid to businesses, especially in the field of tourism, which will also look at other products, other markets, which enable us to maintain activity. However, we agree that there are tough times, not least for travel businesses, and therefore we also have extensive measures to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1338	I had hoped that the Minister of Finance might now have realized that reducing taxes is important for companies that are in and are hard hit by the crisis. Travel businesses that are now lying with their broken backs, and that may hope to have some more activity towards the summer, perhaps get up in the kneel, should then get a double fee from the summer of the experience. It's very unwise. But I heard the Minister of Finance say instead that perhaps, ideally, he would give priority to measures other than those in the budgetary agreement, and then I would like to give the Minister of Finance the opportunity to say what kind of measures it would be. Is there any new measures for a hard hit industry, whether it is the restaurant, nightlife or event industry, or is there any other part of the tourism industry, businesses and people who are now hard hit, that the Minister of Finance might plan to give priority? If so, why has he not made proposals to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1343	With all due respect, we have put forward a budget where we spend almost record money, just to get up and running, to secure jobs, to the municipalities so that they can manage the crisis and provide a good service. But of course, in a budgetary settlement involving four parties, there are slightly different priorities. That's why we're four parties. There is no doubt that the Progress Party has had a significant impact on this agreement. Then I have to say that as Minister of Finance and Right-wing Policy, I might have spent a little more money on knowledge, on research and on other things that improve the framework conditions for businesses, but also in the comparison with the Progress Party, there are many measures that will improve the situation of coastal yards and will help to strengthen the construction sector, including. with significant investment in the road sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1348	I also want to thank you for working together in the last year, and I have to say that when I see the result of the negotiations that were presented here during the day, I miss SV around that negotiating table. The Minister of Finance said that financial measures must follow the measures of infection and the development of infection. The Minister of Finance therefore believes that the policy of the majority is taking place today. But that's not right, because right now we're in the epicenter of the pandemic outbreak in Norway. Oslo is very hard hit, and here the business fades. The outdoor sector is desperate, the first bankruptcies are in progress, and there is no reliable financial measure in this budget for the outdoor sector. They lose their life's work, people lose jobs, a lot of people get put on the bar. So then the answer from Mr. Sanner's colleague Nikolai Astrup to Mr. Oslo's desperate prayer for help is that Oslo must only cut its property tax, which in reality shows that the Right has left Oslo's business. My question is, Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1355	I think that if Kaski's representative had read the full answer, she would have found that it was far more extensive than what was brought up by Dagbladet. In our compensation scheme, companies in Oslo received about one third of the aid. That means that in April the month went about. 700 million. kr to companies in Oslo. Our estimates indicate that Oslo will receive about the same in November and December. That means that the companies in Oslo can get up to 1.4 billion. kr in aid for November and December, the situation of which is similar to that of April. I know that many people would have had the support before, but there are no other state measures that would have been supported for December out faster than in January, when it comes to trading. That is why we have supplemented with other measures, such as an improved loan scheme that is State-guaranteed, and not least the possibility of deferred tax claims, which could also be a contribution for the companies in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1362	First of all, when June comes, many people in our country will get a back-up because government council Sanner's government in 2015 removed the holiday supplement from the daily allowance. Why not reintroduce the holiday supplement when so many people have lost their jobs and want to spend much less money when June comes? Then the bills also come, if they're back to work, because it's the holiday money that they get when June comes. They have to pay electricity, they have to pay food, rents, mortgages – they need something to travel with, but they don't get it if you don't reintroduce the holiday supplement. The second concerns those who have been long-term unemployed, who are now being thrown out of the day-to-day pay system. 9,000 people are thrown out of the scheme within the new year, a total of 25 000 before the summer, according to the figures I got from the department. They'll be without income insurance, they might be given a partner or looking for social assistance in the municipality. Why not extend the daily allowance for the long-term unemployed for the duration of the crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1369	It is well known that the left side wants to reintroduce the so-called holiday supplement. So it's essentially for people who have been unemployed and who have come back to work. We believe that that money can be used better in other ways. We believe it is more important to give priority to more people coming into work. I am concerned about a unemployment where today it is approx. 195 000 jobseekers. I'm worried that the time off is going to get stuck. This is why we give priority to actions that can help more people get back to work, that we secure businesses, and that we facilitate more activity. We have also contributed to the fact that several of those who go on daily pay can take education while they are on leave. I think that is a good measure both for individuals and for businesses. This means that we can also strengthen business and individuals in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1376	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1381	The Korona crisis has strengthened many of the greatest challenges in our society. We can now be on the way to over 200,000 full-time or part-time jobs, which we need to get back to work. That's why we have to do work again for everyone to get to work number one. The crisis has also increased the economic differences even more. Over the last few years, the right-wing government has voted through a series of cuts that affect the most vulnerable — from cut-offs in support to single parents to cut-offs in holiday money and daily allowances. At the same time, they pay the most from before less tax, and now those who had previously earned the least and had become unemployed are hit the hardest by the closure. Therefore, Norway needs a new policy for a fairer Norway. The crisis has really shown us the importance of the community and a strong, accessible public health service. It has not been the commercial actors who have unloaded us through the crisis. There have been health professionals, nurses and public health cleaners. That's why we need to bet on a stronger welfare state, not more privatisation, that's killing our hospitals. Not in any of these areas is the right-wing budget that we are debating today. For the past few weeks, we have witnessed a nitrist show on the contrary. Instead of discussing new emergency measures to save jobs — in the yard, in the culture, in the restaurant industry — they have committed themselves to arguing about snuffing and aiding. And what they're agreeing about, they're now taking time to distance themselves from. The Christian People's Party has heard from this pulpit today that the Progress Party has forced them to kneel, and the representative Listhaug declared that the Progress Party is finished with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It's a bit of a team Erna Solberg has to rule the country in this time of crisis! While this is going on, the reports of bankruptcies are coming from all over the country. When shutting down again in the second wave of infection, businesses are much more vulnerable, without any reserve to go on. It's a notified crisis, but the compensation system we now need is not ready. The money's not coming until New Year's. Then it'll be too late for many. A functioning system should have been in place when the shut-down came. The Workers' Party will propose an urgent mechanism to respond to these needs. Otherwise, the budget is predictable. It was cut further in the tax to them with the most, while most people have to pay more to be trade-unioned and to commute to work, and the Right wanted it to be more expensive to be sick. Our hospitals and our municipalities have really proved to be worthy of trust through the crisis. However, the right-hand government does not grant the money needed for them to function too fully in the future. It affects sick people who have been put in line, elderly people who are lonely, mentally ill who need help, and children who do not get the care they need at home. The Labour Party budget for 2021 points out a different direction. We want better and more predictable compensation for companies hit hard by the measures to prevent infection. We want the unemployed to get holiday pay next year, so that they can afford to take a vacation with their family and be traveling in Norway, which needs activity. We want municipalities to strengthen their economy, so that they do not have to cancel teachers, assistants in the SFO or senior care staff, but can strengthen the offer to their citizens, not least the vulnerable children, who are more vulnerable for a time with more time at home and with less care. With our budget, ordinary people would notice a difference. Having children in the kindergarten would be more than NOK 2 800 cheaper, pregnant women with a long way to the hospital would be guaranteed follow-up service with midwife, and hospitals would get more money for patient treatment – to mention something. It would be cheaper, not more expensive, to be trade-organized and to get to work for commuters. And with the Workers' Party's proposal, eight out of ten taxpayers would pay less in taxes. Many with ordinary lives and wallets have come in second row under the Right and Advance Party. Norway can do better — now it has to be the usual labourer’s turn. In June, the Minister of Finance concluded that the tax rate could not deal with a compensation scheme if it was needed again. When it became necessary – and it was warned, because the infection wave was due to arrive in the autumn – there was no preparation. What was used in June, July, August, September, and October? Then you should have a system ready to answer what's most acute now, that we're about to get over 200,000 totally or partially out of work. It's failing the job, it's not taking the challenge seriously. This budget, the debate here or the packages presented, does not respond to it. For this reason, the Workers' Party will present a separate proposal which may exempt these vulnerable companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1403	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1408	It's a dark time. Soon the sun turned, but the representative Støre sounded as if the sun had gone down too well. It seemed that Norway was completely on wild roads, and that the government had not at all grasped the situation. I saw the last program to Torp yesterday. I heard Støre's former boss Gro Harlem Brundtland give a very good certificate to the government in handling the crisis. I saw that the OECD thought Norway was handling this very well. So is the representative Støre really as stubborn as it sounds like, or is it a game to say that he had run, had everything been much better? It was quite depressing to hear. We have worked well together in Stortingen this year, but this seemed like everything was going wild, and I thought that was quite sympathetic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1413	We're discussing the state budget. Gro Harlem Brundtland is worth listening to. Among other things, she said: that the whole Storting had contributed, and that other parties, including the Workers' Party, had made these arrangements fairer and more accurate. But the sun may turn for the representative of Helleland – he and I have safe jobs, safe wages. There are 200,000 people out there who are now available and who wonder, what's going on? One of eight companies considers that they will go bankrupt before Christmas if they do not have a compensation scheme, which has been adopted and for which there is support, but the scheme is not in place. Then it is our job to address critical questions. It's our job to point out that this is a budget that continues to increase differences in Norway. It is our job to point out that there is an unsocial device in the use of the large money, and it is our job to point out that there is an alternative, which could hardly have caused the sun to turn in the past, but which could have balanced the differences in Norway, put more effort into work, put more emphasis on those who have come in the second row. Now is the turn of ordinary workers. It's going to give more light to the life of the majority of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1420	I also heard Gro say that Jonas should smile more, and I hope he will do so in the future. It was interesting to hear how the state budget was kind of discredited by Støre. After all, he himself had problems as party leader, parliamentary leader and chairman of the programme committee in providing a tax package related to his own party programme for the next four years. But when it first came, it meant a tax increase of – yes, quite modest 7 billion. kr. That's a lot of money, but it's 7 billion. kr. And then we see that in the government budget proposal for next year is the addition of taxes from the Workers' Party to 7 billion. kr. Does that mean that the representative Støre has used up the tax increase allowance for the next four years? When one heard all the measures listed here, which the government should have implemented, there is little room for any particular increase when the tax increase has already been removed before the programme is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1427	I hope it is in parliamentary language to ask if the representative of Greece has a hard time doing so. If there is one party that has presented a clear set of taxes – quite predictable, quite clear, and the representative Knutsen has today explained this very well – it is the Workers' Party. It is quite clear that, within the income tax, they are to pay less taxes with funds and lower revenues, those with high incomes are to pay more. At the property tax we go back where we were on the device in 2016 in the tax settlement, and at a level that we recognize from 2013 – then we went well in Norway. Enterprises have to pay the same tax. And in the future: If one charge goes up, a tax or tax will go down. That's our scheme. We haven't set any sum for this, but we've said that this is the tax mechanism, which is going to provide stability and predictability for families and businesses. We can bet through our government budget on several schemes to raise new businesses and businesses, and we can support businesses in making demands and setting up the big climate debt to be done. It's clear. And the representative's party, which is going to cut the entire wealth tax, is going to stand up for it and defend that we're going to get 30,000 new zero-tax collectors. It's not our way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1434	I heard the representative Støre Wings a little further this morning when he said about the reliefs on goods exposed to border trade. But it's probably not until next week, or next month or next year we'll know what the Workers' Party really thinks about these reductions, or whether they'll be intensified if the Workers' Party comes to government for the harvest. But my question is about pensions, because after reading the Labour Party's budget, it is not possible to find the necessary appropriations to do something about the regulation of pensions for old-age pensioners in 2021. We've heard the Workers' Party in many different contexts talk about the need to do something about this. The Labour Party has promoted verbal proposals on this in the Chamber, but it is now time that pension increases have to be financed. Why has the Labour Party not spent money on this in its alternative budget if they are serious about redefining pensions for the country's pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1441	Hearing the fee queen talk about the winging of the fee is absolutely amazing. After increasing the fees year after year as Minister of Finance, there is a sudden jojo policy in place when fees are to be reduced the previous year. It doesn't give anyone predictability. Retirement: In October, our proposal to regulate pensions with averages of prices and wages, which had given pensioners more predictability – do not go in the negative when we others go in the positive – was voted down in this hall by the representative Jensen's party and the government parties. Then I understand that the representative can't follow closely, as soon as it went at the end, but in our budget, as it was now explained, we've cleared up room for the 1.8 billion. kr necessary for the regulation of wages and salaries and pensions. It has been compromised, and it has been incorporated into the final proposal which is the Workers' Party's alternative here. I am pleased that the representative Jensen in one month, having been running for seven years and seeing that the pensioners have gone negative, has come up with better thoughts and the government. She will receive support from the Workers' Party for better regulation now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1450	The President would remind the representative that characteristics should be avoided in the case of co-representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1455	There has been a lot of work to strengthen the economy of pensioners in recent years. What has remained has been the regulation. But what I asked the representative about was why the Workers' Party did not find room for prioritising such an important effort as regulating pensions in the alternative proposal they put forward. That they have now found out that it was perhaps a little wise to deposit that money anyway, is not so strange, but the Workers' Party did not prioritise it when they put forward their alternative budget. Once upon a time, pension regulations cost money. I also have another question, and that's how the representative Gahr Støre believes he should be able to see all the parents who have children in private kindergartens, in their eyes, see all the employees who work in these kindergartens, in their eyes, with the arrangement that the Workers' Party puts in its alternative budget. Not only did they wholeheartedly support the reversals and the aggressors that the government originally provided, they propose to cut another 147 million. kr to private kindergartens. What kind of answer does the representative Gahr Støre have to all the parents who have children in private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1464	It's that I hope they have kindergartens that follow the standards we have for qualified employees, that kindergartens bring up children who have special needs, and that kindergartens that we've had for a long time, family life and private kindergartens work side by side with the public and ideal kindergartens. We are also concerned that these kindergartens should be treated equally, that they should have a level playing field and a level playing field, and that no one should be favoured. We need a diversity. What the Workers' Party has said no to is the development that has been in recent years with large commercial chains that come in and buy up kindergartens and run them in a way that takes huge profits out of the country. There is a poor use of taxpayers’ money — and parents’ money — and there the Workers’ Party will have a different price.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1471	The representative Gahr Støre is trying to create the impression that there is a separate law for private kindergartens and another law for the municipal authorities. But that's not right. All national kindergartens are subject to the same legislation, with the same pedagogical requirements, the same employee density requirements and the same requirements for the type of admission. This is not an answer to the question. The working party has obviously fallen for Red's grip when you now systematically go after private, female entrepreneurs who have invested all their savings in building up a small private kindergarten to the great joy of the parents and of the children who go in it. My question is what answer Gahr Støre has to all these parents, to all the employees who work in these kindergartens, and who have now been alive since the state budget came, so that they might go overboard, go bankrupt, and that they should lose the jobs – including those – in this pandemic. What answer does the Labour Party have to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1479	It is not the small, sweet kindergartens that the representative here is talking about, that the Workers' Party is concerned about asking questions. As I say, from the kindergarten agreement, there was a great deal of effort from both private, non-profit and public kindergartens, but we have seen a development in the kindergarten sector that even the National Association of Private Barnehages says is alarming, with large chains coming in and buying up. That's what we put the search light on. We have raised questions about how Minister of Finance Jensen could see that some of the taxpayers' money and the parents' money go out of the country in large dividends. It can't be the right way to spend the money to go to the kids and better kindergartens. Having varied kindergartens and having a good offer in all the municipalities of the country is the Workers' Party for, and it will continue to require diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1484	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1489	Now I have been delighted to be the parliamentary leader of the Right since 2013, and this is the last budget debate in this period. In these almost eight years, we've reached a broad bourgeois consensus every year. It has not been easy, but solutions have been. So also this year: Thanks to the Progress Party who have been constructive, sought solutions and helped to provide Norway with a budget for 2021. We're going to create more and include more. We're working with those who want to create jobs. We say yes to green growth that gets emissions down, and no to tax increases that make it harder to create the jobs we need. Anyone who can work should get a job. We need to help more people get into work and prevent people from falling out of work. Too many people are out of work now. Compared to most other countries, there is a high threshold for entering the labour market in Norway — a need for skills. Being outside the labour force also means being outside much of the social community. By getting the right help at the right time, more people can get a job to do. Several people have to be helped back in work, those with holes in the CV have to get up from the bottom of the jobseeker's bench, and the business needs to get better at recruiting widely. The challenges we faced before the Korona are not gone: they are reinforced. Many are now on leave or looking for a job, and most of these must have a job to go to. Then we have to continue the conversion of Norway. Then we also have to cut emissions, not progress. Fortunately, Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions have fallen in the last four years, but in the future more needs to be done to reduce emissions further. By 2030 we will reduce emissions by at least 50 pst. compared to 1990 levels. Emissions need to be reduced without slowing down development, and in order for Norwegian business to be competitive in the future, we need to develop and implement new climate solutions that reduce emissions and create new, sustainable jobs – as the state budget now provides. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have reached an agreement for eight out of eight years. This shows that civil cooperation is solid. Yes, many may say that we are sitting and negotiating for a few weeks, but we agree. And if we take the revised budget, we are now through 15 or 16 budget negotiations, in addition to all the crisis packages that other parties also contributed to in ours. This contrasts with the left side, which does not agree on the main handles and does not agree on which way to take Norway. Our most important task in the future is to ensure that the welfare community survives as oil revenue decreases and we grow older. Then it has to be easier to start own businesses and invest in new jobs. It must also be easier to be a Norwegian owner and have Norwegian companies. So there'll be a disagreement about the details. But we said we should use the oil fund's return on knowledge and research, on infrastructure that binds the country together, and on reduced taxes that contribute to increased value creation. We have. We've doubled the travel appropriations, and I'm proud that this bet gives better and wider ways. It provides faster railways, it provides record research and education efforts, and it has provided creative businesses with lower taxes and taxes. If there's one thing these eight years have taught me, it's that every year there's new surprises. 2020 is probably the most special year since World War II. The year has shown that as a nation we are rusted to deal with most. The North lifts together, and stands together – at a good distance. Many are tired now, nurses and doctors who have worked more than ever, teachers who have made new, digital teaching arrangements, students who have had to sit at home and have not been able to meet their friends at school every day. But many people are also unsure, they don't have a job to go to, they're outlawed. Culture and restaurant workers and aviation employees are struggling extra hard. That is why we are putting forward new measures to help many people over their knees, and I am pleased with the changes we have agreed with the Progress Party on. The pandemic will affect Norway too in the next few months, but the pandemic must not make us narrow-minded: we must continue to invest in good infrastructure. We must continue to connect the housing and labour markets. We must continue to focus on knowledge and empowerment. We must continue to facilitate job creation. We have to keep cutting emissions. Yes, we must continue the conversion of Norway, so that people can live good and meaningful lives. I want to thank the parties in Stortinget for a good cooperation in a difficult time. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Government for leading Norway safely through the crisis. Now Christmas is approaching, the sun is turning, and the light is coming back, the vaccines are coming, and everything is getting better. But we still have to endure, keep distance and stick together!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1517	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1522	More than a quarter of a million people have been outsourced during 2020, and unemployment rates are still sky high. I expect that the representative of Greece is concerned that several of these will come back to work before the summer of 2021, but then probably not the sun will shine on very many of them, those who attend a month's meeting almost without money. Why does the Right think it is right that those who have been on leave for a long time should not receive holiday money when July arrives? I've heard representatives of the Right say that it's crazy to give people who have been on leave, vacation money. Is that why this is not a priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1527	This is a recurring question from the Workers' Party. For us, it's very important to get people back to work, get control of the pandemic, get vaccines out to people, so we can come back to a more normal everyday life. Then we will also see that it will brighten, there will be better times in business, especially in the part of business that has now been totally or partially shut down. It's the most important thing. It's not crazy to give people holiday money, but that's not what we give priority to when we're in the middle of a crisis where we're going to bet on getting the wheels to go around again. Then the most important thing must be that people come back to work and have a safe job to go to. I am sure that's what's at the top of the wish list for those who are currently on leave or unemployed, being able to come back, meeting colleagues, doing a job that many appreciate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1532	I understand that people want to get back to work, and that is why the Workers' Party has helped to strengthen the efforts to get people back. But I would like to understand how the representative of Greece and the Right thinks about those who have small incomes. One comes to July, and there's no money coming into the account. How are they going to pay the bills they have, how are they going to get life around a whole month without income?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1537	I don't know if I need to repeat what I said, but the most important thing is to make the wheels hover again – to get people back to work and to know that one has a job that is safe and secure, and that gives a long-term good income. That's the most important priority for us. That is also why we are setting up these action packages, of which we have presented many, of which the Stortinget has been negotiating and strengthening, and which we have now agreed with the Progress Party in the last round. This is what is most important to give priority to. The working party, which says they won't raise taxes that much, obviously has the most money to afford. They cut to private kindergartens, they cut free treatment choices, they also make grips that will make life more difficult for very many. We have chosen to give priority to getting the wheels started again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1544	Maritime nutrition is hard hit by the crisis. Seafarers, shipyards, shipping companies – everyone has a hard time. Then it's completely incomprehensible that the Right and Government put forward a government budget that would simply make the situation we're in worse. Hans Sande of the Norwegian Maritime Officers' Association believes that the cut in the net pay system is a betrayal, and he said that this proposal is nothing but a scandal. Here the government has chosen to kick a maritime industry that is already down. It shows that their promise to bet on the sea was just empty words. Fortunately, the Progress Party has secured a maritime package that is far better, but I have to ask: How could the Right la maritime nutrition, which is in a deep crisis, actually sail its own sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1551	I am very pleased that we have agreed with the representatives Listhaug and the Progress Party on a comprehensive government budget for next year. I believe that we have had a good maritime policy, we have invested in seafarers, we have invested in shipping together with the Progress Party for many years. Then one can say that now we have been involved in strengthening relative to the cut that had been made – or removing it. That's good. It is clear that when the state budget was presented, we were in a situation where the coronary pandemic was not so prominent. There have been changes along the way, which is why new crisis packages are being presented. It's a little difficult – the representative knows that when you start planning a government budget, things can change. We've taken that into account, we've had no problem agreeing to the changes that the Progress Party is making. I'm glad that maritime nutrition now comes out well in this state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1558	Travel life has a lot of lead. They're struggling. I should perhaps be a little careful to say it, so the representative does not say that I see the darkness of life, but it must almost be said that travel life is struggling. They're having a very hard time. I think we've all been contacted by companies or people who have the terrible toughness. The finance minister said in his speech that we are now in the midst of the crisis. We're not through the crisis, we're in the middle of the crisis, and it's going to impress us far into 2021 and the years after. Then the question is, why does the government think it's a good idea to double the VAT, from 6 pst. to 12 pst. from 1 July, for this industry, which is now struggling so hard, and which, according to the Minister of Finance's statement, is doing so when we are in the midst of the crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1566	I agree that travel life has been through a perhaps even more difficult year than those of all, most of them. They got a pretty good summer, many. Now the snow hasn't come either, so it's taken time to open the slums, ski jumps and other things – even it's playing. But to say that we haven't invested in travel, when we have presented one crisis package after another, which is just to compensate for that loss, and which has taken into account seasonal variations, etc., is going to be completely wrong. The centre party is very impatient to say that the system we have now adopted, namely lower VAT, must continue for a long time in the future. But the experience and the facts have shown that the government has made changes when necessary. It's not like Minister of Finance Jan Tore Sanner is done with his job now. He will come back with new changes if necessary. I'm not saying it will come, but it can come. That's why you can't be so impatient in the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1573	It must be fascinating and discouraging for the unemployed, who would like to have holiday pay next year, and for others who are exposed to the unsocial cuts of this government, to hear the representative of Greece standing and saying that this is something the citizens cannot afford. For the bourgeois can afford everything else. What's now become the custom of civil budgeting is to harvest Erna Solberg's magic money tree, where you can take as much money as you want, without being caught at any time. We all know that such a magic money tree does not exist in reality. It must be covered in at a later date. I have a proposal: is it not now that the Right Party must ask for quarantine before they are again taught other parties about financial accountability? I wonder how long the representative of Greece thinks that quarantine should last. I'll estimate a ten-year period and like to hear how long Helland thinks the Right should be in quarantine before they can talk about this again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1580	After reading the alternative budget, and perhaps especially the Center Party, I think that quarantine should apply to others and not to the government. I found out that I was missing a page in my script instead, and there was something about the money tree Lysbakken is talking about – without saying that it is money tree. There's something called the State pension fund abroad, which over this year has actually been pretty good, and which since we took over in 2013, has doubled, from 5,000 billion. kr to nearly 11000 br. kr. There we are going to manage the money correctly, and I believe that this government has done so. We've been focusing on what we said we were going to do, infrastructure, we've doubled the travel appropriations. We've been focusing on growth-enhancing tax relief, and we've been focusing on research and development. I hope that the SV's quarantine, which has now lasted eight years, will last for many more years, and that this government will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1585	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1590	The Progress Party has chosen to take responsibility for a demanding period of time. That is why, through long and tough budgetary negotiations, we have chosen to provide subsidized support for the negotiated budgetary unity. The progress party promised to cut fees – and we deliver. Over 7 B.C.E. kr in tax reliefs next year have resulted. The air passenger fee will be lost for the entire period of 2021. The low VAT rate is continued. We're going to reverse the government's tightening up on petrol and diesel cars. There are powerful reliefs related to goods placed on the market. I've seen someone try to make fun of this. I think you should be a little careful to do that. I saw the joy that came from Freia factories and all the employees there when it became known that the chocolate fee is history. I have seen the joy that has come around in large parts of the country's shops as a result of this. And that's not very strange, because this is about jobs. One should try to minimize what these reliefs mean, but the truth is that the closure of Norway has given us thousands of temporary jobs around Norwegian food shops. We very much want those jobs to be permanent. I have to say that it is quite remarkable for those in the opposition who choose to criticise and ridicule these tax cuts, if they are not actually also concerned with the value of these jobs for them. This is in particular an industry that is able to employ unskilled workers, which we do not have too much of in this country. So I'm rather happy with that delivery, because it matters, and because it matters to the wallets of ordinary people. Although this is about border trade and there is no special sense in re-establishing taxes in the Swedish treasury and sponsoring Swedish merchants, it is now far from all the Nordics who have the opportunity to travel to Sweden and act cheaply. Most people live so far away from the limit that it is not everyday to be able to take a walk across the border. That's the part of the population that always buys these goods at higher prices because we have a higher fee level in Norway. In particular, all those who are now finally getting the benefit of a checkout, who are going to be noticed on the checkout. Therefore, I am pleased that all the merchants now go out and take responsibility for this and say that these are reliefs that will benefit the residents of Norway, kroner for kroner. The party of progress has always been concerned with the elderly. The fact that we've now done over 2 billion. kr next year for the regulation of the pension, I am simply very pleased with all the lean years many of the pensioners have behind them. The fact that we've also found room to regulate and adjust the pension to lonely minimum pensioners is good, because they're among those in our society who have the biggest challenges of making the economy go around. I hope, of course, that the ongoing negotiations on a pension settlement will lead, because in that case it will provide security for the pensioners also for the next few years, so they will not experience what they have experienced in the years that lie behind us – losing purchasing power every single year. I am pleased that we have got money to give grants to thousands of new places of care and care. It's going to mean something to all those who are no longer able to live at home in their own home. We are strengthening efforts to combat loneliness among the elderly. It should really be lacking in a situation where, in particular, these people have been isolated and become very vulnerable as a result of the measures under the pandemic. That we now also have a project to ensure that the sick elderly better dental health, I believe, is high time. We strengthen the social profile as we are now cleared up in the government's proposals on more expensive medicines and medical treatment. Actually, it's completely incomprehensible that the Christian People's Party could do this. But the Progress Party has now ensured that sick people are saved for over 1 billion. kr in prostheses next year. I think that is a good contribution to strengthening the social profile of the budget. We ensure the daily life of thousands of kindergarten children and their parents when we clean up the government's very unsocial attacks on the country's private kindergartens. I have no figures of how many requests I have received from anxious owners and employees in the country's private kindergartens who simply cannot understand how this is possible as many years after we had a kindergarten settlement in Stortingen where the whole point was that we should treat public and private kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner, so that our children would have good, safe kindergartens to go in, and that it would not matter if it was a private or a public kindergarten. It was good that we were able to do something about it. And I have to say that I am delighted to see the cheering coast over the maritime package that the Progress Party has now received. In a situation where more and more ships are in circulation, where more and more sailors are put ashore, at a time when we have a maritime industry in crisis, it is not the answer to tighten up the net pay system. Therefore, it is good that we now not only reverse the tightening, but further improve the arrangement along with a strengthening of other framework conditions for a hard-tested maritime industry. Then, of course, I am glad that there are now also good news from all over the country, from the construction industry, after we have put in place a strengthening of the road budget. It is about road projects, it is about asphalting both county roads and national roads across the whole country, and it is clear that it also has an employment effect. Not only does that mean that we get better road standards around the country, we also get people at work who would otherwise be at risk of losing their jobs. We're going to be very, very happy about that. Is that enough? No, I'm not sure. Is there going to be a revised budget in which, in that case, we can make arrangements to grant more? Yes, we might have to do it. But I am pleased with the many important achievements that the Progress Party has gained in the negotiations that we now have behind us. And I am glad that we have managed to improve the package of measures that the government presented as an additional number related to the consequences of covid-19. Clearly, it means something for all the jobs and businesses that are now turbulent and close to bankruptcy, that we have better compensation schemes in place for different parts of Norwegian business that are being taken by this closure. Then I think that together we should be busy just to continue the work of strengthening these schemes for a hard-tested business, so that we get out of this pandemic of jobs, with jobs. That's why I have to say that after hearing parts of this debate, I'm pretty upset over the left side, which has as its main response to all the country's challenges that we need to increase taxes. Increasing the taxes on the country's businesses in the time we're in now is probably the worst medicine you can serve. Unfortunately, these are also things we do not succeed in. And I have to say that it's not certain that this had been carried in a normal situation, in a situation where we didn't have the rug we now have, with a pandemic. That behind, with a demanding situation for the country, where people fear for their job, fear for their economy, fear for their life's works, yes, the rear carpet weighed so heavily for the Progress Party that we have chosen to take responsibility and thus create a subsidiary majority for the budget through the budgetary union.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1628	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1633	The Progress Party is really responsible for every comma of the situation we're in. The representative Jensen stresses that they have chosen to take responsibility, and that is for the best. Early in November, when the crisis package was presented, the representative Jensen was concerned about the companies, and she demanded a rapid treatment of the crisis package through the Stortinget. I agreed because it was a critical situation. Now the situation is even worse, and she herself mentioned, in her own statement, that many companies are now on the verge of bankruptcy. We have received information from, among others. Works that show that as many as one in eight companies can go bankrupt before they get money from the crisis package we are now dealing with. What will the representative Jensen say to the companies that are now going bankrupt, and the workers who are losing their jobs waiting for them to receive payments from the state through the crisis package?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1640	I am very pleased that the Advance Party insisted that we had to deal with the package of measures separately. It is about being able to give clear signals to all companies in the country about what kind of framework conditions they can expect based on the content of that action package. I believe it is very important that we have made changes to the compensation scheme and everything else that is there. So we strengthened the measures by almost 5 billion. kr. But I agree with the representative that the very best situation would be that a lot of this could be paid now. I just have to see that the government thinks it's not possible. We have asked exactly the same questions about this as the representative of Aasland has done. We've been just as concerned about it and wondered why it's wise to switch from the tax rate to the Brønn Island Health registers for a time that's so vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1645	There is no doubt that there is a lack of understanding of the crisis that is why businesses are now unable to obtain money. Since June, one has known that the tax rate would not be able to make new payments if it were to do so. Another sector that is now experiencing a very serious crisis, as the representative said, is the maritime one. The fact that the coast is jubilant may well be moderated. For the representative is talking about a powerful package for the maritime sector, and it is good that the Progress Party has reversed the incomprehensible cuts made by the government in the net pay system, etc., but there is no strong commitment on the maritime sector and on the yards in the package negotiated between the Progress Party and the Government. On the contrary, it is quite weak. That's all reason to think that they're 55 pst. as analysed can lose the job at Norwegian shipyards during 2022, in fact will do so even after the budget we have now received, because there is no powerful package for the yards, which have the most vulnerable jobs. How many jobs will there be in the package in connection with the yard give of cheers along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1652	The Progress Party has been busy listening to the recordings that have taken place prior to the treatment of the State budget by the actors themselves — from the Shipowners’ Federation, from the yards, from the various actors along the coast. In turn, we have talked about the importance of the net pay scheme. We didn't just bring it back to the level it was at, we've strengthened it further, by over 600 million. kr. It's clear it matters because we're going to continue to have Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships or not. That we've strengthened the conditioning system – that's clear it matters. We have taken other steps, but I do not know if the representative has brought them. The sum of this means something. That we're postponing the government's plans for withholding taxes – that's clear it matters. I don't fully understand the approach of the Workers' Party. This makes a difference. The difference between the Workers' Party's alternative budget and what we are going to adopt today is that it actually benefits the yards.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1657	We have also spent time listening and talking to the Swedish Shipowners' Association, with the Maritime Organisations, with the Norwegian Industry and with the Maritime Forum, and we have received a completely different response from the commitment made by the Advance Party to the maritime sector. We have twice as much. Over twice as high a stake we have for measures for the yards, which are in a critical situation. There are workplaces and environments of competence that we will live on in the future, which will build liquid sea winds, which will be the basis for us to bet on blue hydrogen, the basis for saving CO 2, etc. – in the maritime cluster and in the shipyards, which may be the key to and engine too much of it. We have listened and received answers that have put more than twice as much into the yard sector as the Progress Party. Could this be due to the fact that the Progress Party has not prioritised the maritime sector and the situation in the yards sufficiently high? It could have been good to get the representative Jensen's answer to that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1666	The Labour Party may have added more than what is in the budget unit here, but what the Workers' Party sends to these companies in addition, is 7 billion. kr in tax incentives. Talk about double communication! Is there anyone who thinks these grant schemes hold for those companies when you get at the same time a tax bill of 7 billion? kr from the Workers' Party? I think the Workers' Party must stick its finger in the ground and begin to realize that the rhetoric they have in tax policy has been reviewed a long time ago. It has consequences if you increase the tax on businesses in a time of crisis. One thing is to tax corporations for the profits they're going with, another thing is to increase the tax on companies that are going with deficits. That's exactly what the Workers' Party is doing, and that's why these attacks are not for believers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1671	I must first congratulate the President on the nomination. Then I have a question for party leader Siv Jensen. I have read the budget agreement, and in the last two paragraphs, it is clear that the Progress Party will be the guarantor of all new issues raised by the government in the next six months – whether there are revised national budgets, new age or any other budgetary changes. Finally, it says that all issues that have budgetary implications should be clarified with the government. That the Progress Party is the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right's largest supporting party, there is no doubt, and the Progress Party is the guarantor that Sveinung Rotevatn will govern Norwegian environmental policy. Finally, my question concerns those who have been granted a permit. Why is it that you do not extend the permitting code for all those who are insecure when they go into the Christmas season and are about to lose their job? Is the Progress Party bound up and dictated by the Right's desire to end the legitimizations after 12 months, or does the Progress Party have the freedom to participate and form another majority in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1680	For once, I should like to thank the representative, Mr Vedum, for the question, but he cannot have read very well the text he just referred to. It does not give the bonds of which Battle violence Vedum tries to create the impression, rather the opposite. It says that the Progress Party should inform its budgetary partners if it wishes to participate in other majority solutions. I said it last time at the press conference in the hiking hall when the budget unit was presented, that we will reserve the right to avail ourselves of it if there is a need to make changes that have budgetary implications throughout the year. We're going to take advantage of that opportunity if necessary. With regard to the lay-off scheme, I'm very happy that we helped expand it. That was absolutely necessary. I'm also not a stranger to discuss new extensions if it turns out to be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1687	It's five lines, Vedum. Three are gone, and you got one, and then there's one left to the Lightbox.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1692	That's the way it must be, President. Let me begin by commending Siv Jensen for one thing. It's that there's more money coming to the minimum pensioners, and what's in there can be a good building block to achieve what we've proposed together about raising older people with low pensions in Norway. Then there are also many other groups who have been exposed to unsocial cuts in the years in which the Progress Party has been put in government, but which are not satisfied with anything in this budgetary agreement. This applies to disabled dependants, to people on redundancy payments, children who have lost their glasses, chroniclers who have gained increased prowess, single carers, etc., etc. - The list is long. In spite of the fact that Siv Jensen has been reaped from Erna Solberg's magic money tree, where lasting expenses are not required to provide permanent income, Siv Jensen has not found room to give a handshake to the many groups that have received unsocial cuts. Why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1701	I don't agree with that. As I just said in my main post, the Progress Party has used these negotiations to give this budget a significantly better social profile. The fact that we're making the changes we're making with respect to the prowess, for example, protects sick people for excesses of 1 billion. kr – it is clear it means something in a situation where you are ill. I'm very happy about that. I am also very happy that, unlike SV, we have invested money to regulate the pensions for 2021. I am very well aware that we have tabled a joint proposal in the Chamber. I am pleased that we have done so, but the Progress Party has also financed this both in its alternative budget and in the budgetary negotiations. It is not possible to trace it in the SV's alternative budget, strangely enough. It's nice to be busy when you're out talking to people, but you also have to be willing to pay the bill, and it's been the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1708	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1713	Many have said that we are in the midst of a crisis. There has been a lot of debate here today, I think. We are in a serious situation for both businesses and jobs in Norway. We have registered more jobseekers today than at the highest level in all three previous crises, in the last 20 years – more than during the financial crisis, more than during the IT crisis and more than during the oil crisis in 2014-2015. Nearly 200,000 people are registered as unemployed. There's a lot of people who know the effect of the shutdown we're now in the middle of. It is difficult to be in the outdoor sector in Oslo, in the cultural and event sector in Trondheim and to be a worker, among others. in aviation and travel. In my own region, there are 400 lay-offs on Værnes. 5,500 is either cancelled or cancelled on the Gardermoen. People are struggling, and people are very uncertain about what is going to happen in the future. That's when the Center Party says that what we need now is not more crisis packages. We need a crisis plan. This government has submitted a package after package. I think a lot of people out there have gradually lost some of the overview. Now they also warn that there may be another package. There are some of these dulciful references. The representative, Mr Kapur, correctly stated that the permit regime cannot be extended after 1 March. But there are other speakers from the Right and the Advancement Party who say, "No, we can do that." The representative, Siv Jensen, said that she was not completely alien. When it came to travel, the representative of Greece told me that something could happen. So there's some dubious suggestion that changes might occur. I think people deserve better than that. I think they deserve a clarification. Is it the case that the permitting system is being extended, so that people can feel the security of their jobs, the security of the job they're in? Is it so that they will extend and continue the compensation scheme? Is it the case that aviation will have a compensation scheme? Is it the case that travel life tax is to be increased on or off 1 July? I think that instead of the government delaying from month to month and notifying ever more new packages, as they suggest all the time, you deserve more long-termity, more predictability and more overview for the individual who is now in a very difficult situation. It is part of the Centre’s budget to ensure arrangements for maritime operators and freelancers and to extend the permit regime and to extend and extend the compensation mechanism. We have put in an aviation-related system. We've put in a relief in the travel hub, so those who are now having a hard time in travel life will not think about it. We have committed funds to enable counties and municipalities to play a role in the work needed to create jobs in the future. We know that the municipalities and the counties are good at it, we know they've done it before, and we know that's where you can contribute to creating new activity. This has to be done, because everything needs to be done in the future to avoid persistently high levels of unemployment in Norway. I also want to say that the arrangements that we have, also give some results that I think are difficult for many. It is soon that you have to have a staff or be a large commercial enterprise to understand some of the changes that have been designed. That'll give you some nice results. If the start or start of business is late in 2019 or early in 2020, it is more difficult to obtain help. In fact, if your municipality owns your business, the state may say: No, but it will then cover the municipality – sail if it is not allowed under the EEA rules. In fact, if you are a cooperative and not a limited liability company, you risk not being covered, if you do the same business. If you're not 100 pst. commercial, but registered in the Voluntary Register, difficulties arise as a music festival or other type of cultural event. There is also a side to the crisis measures that we have to get better at, making sure it doesn't get that kind of remarkable outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1726	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1731	In 2015, the police analysis told us that only 85 out of 353 police offices had the opportunity to post a 24-hour patrol. Something had to be done. Office had to be merged. Then the centre party came high on the track. Of course, the police reform was not supported and promised that all these merged offices would be restored. You made great expectations, and you should think that you were ready to keep your promises. But then comes the alternative state budget for 2021, and 30 million is set aside. kr for the restoration of the bilge office. Then I'd like to ask the representative Arnstad: why is there such a huge gap between the promises given by the Center Party and the appropriations they put on the table? What office needs to be restored, and how many?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1736	I'm glad I got that line, because then I get the opportunity to say a little bit about it. In its alternative budget, the Central Party is betting half a billion on the Police and Len's seat. The half-billionth is absolutely necessary both to cover increased staff, to cover rental costs and to cover other aspects of police work. In our neighbouring country, they started the police centering before Norway. Denmark did it, Finland did it. In Denmark they have now come to the realization that it was not so wise to centralize the police. They have now chosen to go in for a decentralization. They should simply reopen police posts and officers' offices. I think Denmark has settled on a wise line there. I think that's such a line Norway will have to put on, because we've closed down too many important police and officers' offices, which means that people don't feel that security and get that help from the police across the country as they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1744	In the cavalry cavalry of broken promises and lack of funding, it's plenty to take off as far as the Center Party is concerned. After all, they themselves have made proposals here in the Grand Duchy about several ships for the Kystut and even supported the proposals of other parties. Then comes the alternative state budget, and there it is not set of a red ear to more ships to the Coast. Why is there also here a total absence of consistency between what you promise, and what you put on the table of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1749	We are concerned about the Kystrut, and we think that the way the government has treated it in the last few months has not been very wise. We are very pleased that one here finally managed to get a proposal that it should at least go from Trondheim and on to Tromsø, so that you can get some of the goods from there, and that it should not just go between Bodø and Tromsø. We think that's good. We're coming back to those questions, because we're also going to have a further setup regarding the strengthening of the Coast, or Hurtigruten, which I still like to call it, because it's a lifesaver of the coast and the people living along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1754	I registered that the representative Arnstad didn't talk so much about aviation in his post, and there might be a reason for that. Because when you see the alternative state budget of the Center Party, there's not much left of the promises that have been made in the past. It has seemed at times that both foreign and Norwegian companies would be saved with taxpayers’ money without imposing sufficient requirements for both owners and creditors to contribute. What is left in the alternative budget is to integrate aviation into the general compensation scheme, and it says the industry hits them very badly because of their cost structure. And then my question to Arnstad is, what's happened along the way? Why is it not possible for the Central Party to honour its own promises in its own budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1759	I mentioned aviation well, I think, in my post, but it's clear how many areas you get the opportunity to enter in a 5 minute post. The centre party has put in arrangements amounting in total to 5 billion. kr in the case of aviation. Three billion. NOK of them is a compensation scheme that I know Norwegian airlines also want. We have had close contact with all the companies that have a Norwegian operating permit. They are quite clear that the type of compensation scheme they want to take part in, and that would be important for them. Some of them also say that it's starting to hurry. In the case of Norwegian in particular, we're concerned that the government should have gone further in dialogue with Norwegian. They went too easy, they just let the Norwegian situation go too easily. It should have been possible to engage in a dialogue, especially when Norwegian is in the situation that they now have a window of four to five months for a strong structuring and reorganisation of the entire company. Then it is incomprehensible that the government does not see the possibility to engage in dialogue with the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1768	It's true, as Arnstad says, that aviation wants a compensation scheme, but they want a separate scheme, and that's what the Progress Party has got the government parties to decide: to ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with their own system. The general arrangement entered into the budget of the Centre Party does not take place in aviation. It shall cover unavoidable fixed costs, including rentals, electricity, renovations, etc., and it is small for the airlines. So I can actually repeat my question: the big promises that the Central Party has made to both Norwegian and others in the past, and also to employees in these companies, why is it not delivered on it in the alternative budget when the Central Party has the opportunity to show how to solve the situation of Norwegian aviation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1773	Firstly, we have also been in dialogue with the airlines, and they have considered that the type of compensation scheme in our budget is a current measure. If it is that one here should make changes related to the compensation scheme, I actually believe that there is something that the government must consider in the future, because there are too many of the regimes of the government that are unclear, that fail to make right, that discriminate people who do the same business, and that are simply not intelligible to those who are in the different sectors. So we're open to make adjustments related to it. Thus, in the case of Norwegian, the company has now received bankruptcy protection and has a window of four to five months to reorganise the entire business. It is then incomprehensible that Norwegian political authorities will not even engage in dialogue with the company to look at measures to help them further. It also happened in 2011 and 2012 with SAS and Ontøe, and we had a comprehensive political dialogue. I miss it at this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1780	The situation we're in is very serious for many businesses. The representative Battle Violence Vedum was occupied by all the people it touches, in his post earlier. The representative Arnstad is concerned that there is also a need for a long-term perspective for Norwegian businesses. At the same time, in its alternative budget, the Centre Party creates uncertainty by re-cuting EEA funds. The note from the Financial Committee also concerns the immigration of persons from the EEA outside the Nordic region to Norway. It is precisely creating an uncertainty about the relationship we have with Europe. Is it not important for Norwegian industry, which needs long-term security in the years to come, that we do not now create uncertainty and undermine the EEA Agreement? Is the Central Party willing to put aside its opposition to the EEA Agreement, aside from its proposal to undermine it, in a situation where Norwegian enterprises need predictability?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1789	No, the centre party is still against the EEA Agreement. We're also going to be in the future. We believe it is fully possible to have a reasonable and good relationship with European countries through trade agreements other than the EEA Agreement. We also had that before 1992-1993, and we have always had an open economy in Norway, we have always exported goods, and we have had customs freedom on all industrial products – with and without the EEA Agreement. So that's still the central party's attitude. As far as EEA funds are concerned, they do not go to the business of Norway or to research institutions in Norway: they go to all sorts of puzzling projects around in countries which are also not among those most in need of Norwegian funds and Norwegian aid, as is actually the case. They're going to Poland, they're going to Hungary, they're going to other countries that can be called into question both by how they're currently governed politically, and by whether they really need that kind of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1796	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1801	The budget we are discussing today must respond to what is the two major crises and the two major challenges of our time and the whole decade before us. One is that the economic downturn associated with the pandemic meets us at a time when the inequality of power and wealth has already increased in our country for many years. The second is that these are the next few years when it is decided whether we are able to deal with the climate crisis in a tidy way, in an efficient way, or whether it will create chaos and destroy the basis of our lives. At such a time, these major challenges must be met with a policy that is for the many and not for the few at the top. It is the most important objection we have to the majority that governs Norway today, that they too often choose to give priority to the few on top of the many – who are becoming increasingly lower taxes on wealth as an important political goal, or who when we get this reconciliation on the table and we see that less taxes on property have been chosen as an important priority. The government has failed when, in a situation where the differences in this country are already too large, we see that there are workers who pay the highest price of the economic crisis, and that social measures are too late and too weak. The government has failed when it allows privatisation, liberalisation of the rail sector and the taxi market, or more and more profit in our well-being, because it undermines what has made Norway an efficient and productive economy and society to live in, namely small differences and strong communities. And the government is wrong when it allows that more and more of the power and money in society go to them at the top. Similarly, the government is failing when it lacks a plan to achieve our climate goals, when the government lacks a plan for the massive investment needed in green industry and business in the next few years. So instead, we see that it's still like that, for example. the package of measures for oil companies for the year is much larger than the crisis packages that have gone to green investment in industry. In the years that come, we must cut, build and share. We have to cut emissions, build the country, build the green industry and extend well-being, and we have to share benefits and burdens. The SV's alternative budget is a plan for it, for strong redistribution, where we give priority to work for everyone and 7 billion. kr more to the municipalities, where we prioritise new welfare reforms as free SFOs for first class and dental care, where we take a settlement with the many unsocial cuts that have hit people who have little, where we increase the minimum pension, and where we do more for the unemployed. It's a budget where we're going to rule on the tax system, and where we're going to settle the pointless way in which the tax debate is conducted in this country, so there's total tax revenue at the social level that's the big issue, while the reality is that for most people, it's the distribution of the tax that's the most important question. And what our budget shows is that we can redistribute from private wealth to common well-being, while at the same time we can lower the tax for the vast majority of the population: 72 pst. of those with income in Norway will receive lower taxes with the SV scheme than with the government’s proposal. And we're proposing a green new deal, a social plan to achieve the climate goals while creating work for everyone and sharing the good fairly: a green investment bank and investment company, bet on sea wind, hydrogen, carbon capture, bio, battery industry, green shipping and turning the big investments from fossil to renewable. Then I have to say, finally, that it may be worth a moment to dwell on the consequences of the budgetary conciliation for Norway's international profile. Assistance priorities appear to be a kind of comfort premium for what might be of Norwegian Trump followers, when Norway is about to cut to climate, to Palestine, to sexual and reproductive health and rights and to knowledge cooperation. I think that's a funny and sad profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1818	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1824	SV has done the right thing here for a very ambitious budget: 39 billion. kr for green investment, free SFO, increased free dental health, increased child welfare, increased minimum pension and cheaper kindergarten. This is mainly financed by increasing the tax burden on businesses and individuals. But we also find some cut posts. One of them is to scrap E39 by cutting planning and land use – a project that will provide a basis for business to create future coastal jobs to provide tax bases to finance SV's well-being. How does SV think that, in the future, we will be able to tax business so heavily if we do not facilitate good mobility and strengthen competitiveness?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1831	We're probably just disagreeing about what's going to be the effect of betting so much on the free E39. The truth about that project is that it's starting to become very unpopular in our home country. Both the local population, conservationists, seafarers’ organisations, transport workers, truck owners and toll-responsives - the list of people opposed to this project has become terribly long. I think that's because people see that it's a mistake priority that's going to hit so much else that's important in the West. For our part, we in SV are very clear that we do not now want to bet on large motorway projects like E39. Instead, we want safe paths. It's very important in our state. What we are now at risk is that the priority of the ferry-free E39 does not make any of the repairs required by the E16 and the Bergen–Voss railway, and we believe that this is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1838	We had a debate on the wind power message yesterday. It became clear that SV has problems with the establishment of hydropower, wind power and networks, because here nature is drumming the need for renewable power. The State Road Service has submitted a report which includes: shows that the establishment of Hordfast will result in a strongly reduced energy consumption on this stretch. Here you can set battery and zero-emission ferries. Elimination of the E39 will require much more energy to use ferries than when we have an efficient transport system that will build up around industry along the coast. How does SV actually defend an increase in energy consumption that is not willing to produce the renewable energy to select such energy-requiring solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1847	SV is willing to produce renewable energy. Among other things, we have pointed out a great deal of sea wind in our alternative budget. But then all the parties will face some difficult dilemmas in this regard. This does not only apply to SV – it applies to the right, it applies to all lots here. And when we are going to meet that debate, we need to take into account that, in addition to the climate crisis, we have a major natural crisis, that biodiversity is being reduced rapidly, and that, for example. many expansion projects – since we again entered the E39 and Hordfast – also have major climate impacts. After all, the impact on emissions through the raging of ants has been shown not to have been taken into account in the climate accounts for the free E39. It could be significant. We are a party that is concerned with renewable energy, but we are also concerned with nature, so we put our foot down when expansion projects have too much costs, for example. for vulnerable Western nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1854	I noticed that SV does not have a very good response as to why they have not invested the money to fund the regulation of pensions in their alternative budget. But then I heard the representative Kaski earlier in the debate boasted that SV was the party that had spent the least oil money in its alternative budget. Yes, it is possible that it is possible to boast about it, but then you have to explain what you have done to finance everything you have done on the expenditure side, and it's about powerful tax cuts. Does SV think it makes sense to tighten up taxes so much in a situation where businesses are struggling to stay up – they are going bankrupt, and many are going downhill? Is this really the time to tighten up taxes as massive as the SV add up to?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1861	Let me first just say very crystal clear that SV can and will fund what is necessary to get social security settled in line with what we have proposed in Stortinget, but we haven't pushed it in our budget because we have our own process on Stortinget that hopefully will lead to a fairer arrangement. Is it true about taxes in a time like this? Yes – because one of the major challenges we have right now is that the burden of this crisis is not fairly distributed. New assets are being created on the stock exchange, well done at the top of the Norwegian society, but there are workers who pay the price of the crisis. That's why we have to redistribute in such a situation. And very much of the revenue that we want to collect by increasing taxes at the top of Norwegian society, will just lead to a more effective policy to get people to work and to make the crisis easier for those who have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1868	The representative Lysbakken was concerned with Norway's international responsibility, and with the changes in the aid budget, I think that many will agree that a person will spend more money on the World Food Programme, for example. But in the SV's draft budget, there is one thing I'm responding to, and that is the proposal to withdraw all support for Norwegian forces internationally – in Iraq, in Afghanistan, in Jordan. If there's any time when this would be completely wrong, it must be now, both in Iraq, where there failed so much in 2012, when the American forces were withdrawn and the IS flourished, and in Afghanistan now, where the peace process needs international support. Is there anyone other than SV and Donald Trump who thinks this is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1881	This is a question of what is going to be Norway’s international task. We all know that the main reason Norway has military contributions is present, for example. in Afghanistan, we have not been able to play a decisive military role in resolving the conflict in Afghanistan, which is not even clear to the United States. It's been about alliance loyalty to the Americans. It has been more about Norwegian security policy than about international solidarity, and we are opposed to using the defence in that way. We believe that the defence should first be used to ensure Norwegian security and security and to assert Norwegian sovereignty and, secondly, to participate in UN operations, not in the US wars around the world. That's why it's a very consistent line we've had for many years. The problem of explanation lies with those who have enthusiastically supported the warfare in Afghanistan for so many years, when we now see that after almost 20 years it has still not given the promised democracy and social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1886	At the same time, there are millions of Afghans who have had the opportunity to train in this period, and there are millions of people who have had opportunities they would not otherwise have had. There is no doubt that the international forces have been involved in giving that opportunity, and we have had many Norwegian soldiers who have contributed – I know many myself – and made an important effort over the 20 years. Does SV think it is right now to withdraw, just at a time when there is progress in negotiations and you need international support in order to be able to bring it forward? Is it not right now to show solidarity with the people of Afghanistan, and is it not right now that the international community, including those who have forces there, needs to be united?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1893	Our veterans who have served in Afghanistan are to be thanked, and that is among other things. therefore SV has been at the head of the Storting for a more robust and better veteran policy. But I'm proud that throughout the period from 2001 to today, SV has been the party on the Stortinget that has most often asked questions about the war in Afghanistan, as most other parties in Norway have reported. It is not just me who claims that the main reason Norway is in Afghanistan has been about being a good ally. It is also, to a large extent, the conclusion of the sample that the government put down and that has looked at this. The question is whether that's what we're going to do where we're sending Norwegian soldiers around the world – whether it's the relationship with the United States, the need to have the flag on the table, American security policy interests. We mean no. We believe that Norwegian interests and consideration for the UN should lead. It's international solidarity, in my view.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1899	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1904	2020 has been a demanding and especially year, not only in terms of infection and fear of infection. The Coronapandemy has also had major implications for the international and Norwegian economy, for individuals and for businesses. The government has advanced and the Storting has developed and adopted comprehensive financial measures to address the negative consequences of the pandemic and the infectious diseases. The budget and the budgetary agreement we are discussing and are to adopt today are to be incorporated into a row, in which we shall also adopt the agreement between the Government Party and the Progress Party for the Korona Supplement Number. There, the government launched a new strong measure of 17.7 billion. kr, and after a deal with the Advance Party, today it will be increased to 22.1 billion. kr, which is in addition to the many measures already introduced or proposed. These measures are targeted specifically at the health sector, the local government sector, large-scale enterprises and the extension of the extensions of the income insurance scheme. The aim of the economic measures is to contribute to activity and work, secure income for those who become the framework, and ensure that viable enterprises get through the crisis. So this might well sound like a rose red, because we know that the uncertainty surrounding the further development is great when it comes to the disease and how the markets are reestablished, especially in the sectors that are hardest hit. The government and we at Stortinget follow developments closely, in close dialogue with the social partners and in direct contact with individuals. And we will always adapt the financial measures to the infectiveness situation. The Korona measures would not have been as good and so extensive without the effort and contribution from the Progress Party on the Stortinget, nor the additional number. I want to thank the Progress Party for the work they have done. I know that many out there share that gratitude, not least players in hard-hitting industries, such as travel, nightlife, cultural and event sectors – from major players to self-employed people. The Progress Party has also contributed to strengthening the budget for 2021 in the entirely decisive area of green growth. These agreements include: the improvement of the maritime sector — with the net pay arrangements, more means of conditioning and better financing conditions for the construction of new ships. A central industry in the green shift is now better placed to carry on and strengthen all the exciting things that happen with green technology development and low and zero emission solutions for both large and small vessels. An already green budget has been even greener. Greenhouse gas emissions go down – and will go down – we now have the lowest emissions of 27 years nationally. It has not come as a matter of fact: electric car advantages, increased use of biofuels, an extensive commitment to public transport and rail – and not least extensive cooperation with Norwegian industry and research and our technology development environment. Heavy government tools such as Enova, the climate technology schemes and the TaxFUNN have increased by many billions. We have set up a completely new state-owned climate investment company, Nysnø, with the promise of 700 million. kr today in record time has been added to SEK 2.4 billion. kr in administrative capital. We have made it more profitable to make green choices in everyday life by reducing the price of green solutions, such as zero and low-driving cars and public transport. The draft budget for 2021 contains a huge carbon capture and storage effort, Langskip, which can be one of the most important measures in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions quickly and comprehensively enough, not only in Norway but world wide, in order to avoid the worst climate change in the future. For the Left, the climate and environment struggle is about securing the freedom and opportunities of future generations, so that they can also benefit and benefit from nature, as we have enjoyed. We're unsavory future-optimists. Climate and nature protection go hand in hand with the good life. Each can make climate-friendly choices in everyday life, simply because they appear to be the most attractive and profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1927	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1932	It was touching to hear Terje Breivik use most of his post to boast of the Advance Party. Even the green shift he thought the Progress Party had done better. I'm going to ask Breivik about a small post where he didn't need the Advance Party's help. The draft budget has maintained support of almost 2 million. SEK for the Human Rights Service. For the state of Norway, it means little, but it says a lot about where we want to be as a country. This is a racist blog that encourages Muslim harassment in Norway. The government budget, on which the Left has been involved, says: ‘The grant shall contribute to providing better knowledge of integration and immigration in the population, including knowledge of opportunities and challenges.’;» What kind of knowledge does Terje Breivik and Left believe that Human Rights Service contributes to integration and immigration?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1944	Human Rights Service is one of many organizations with which the Left is guaranteed to disagree when it involves a great deal of what they stand for, and what they preach. However, I am very committed to the fact that the type of organisation should also have the same right as all other organisations to claim their views and work for their cause and be equated with others when allocating funds over the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1949	Thank you for that answer. In that case, it's a left-wing noodle. Now they're actively going in and they think it's absolutely right that they're going to spend $2 million. kr of taxpayers’ money on a blog that encourages the harassment of Norwegian citizens. They've asked people to take pictures of all the examples they have of people using hijab, or other people exercising their faith. So it was at least clarifying that now the left is fully behind this. Then I have another question, which goes to a much larger post on the state budget. It's about the sick pay. We're going to be happy that we've had a proper health pay scheme in Norway, which allows people to stay at home when they get sick. We know that there is a readiness and a defense also in the work against the pandemic. How does Terje Breivik think that Norway had been prepared for the pandemic and the invitation to be at home if you are sick, if the Left had been able to see through, namely to cut the sick pay system?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1956	I must almost spend some time when the representative turns on my previous answer. The left is not total Human Rights Service and everything they write for. That was the way the representative chose to interpret me. I think it's a pity that the political discourse should be on that plane. There are many organisations out there that receive support through the state budget, different schemes, which I am absolutely sure both the Left and the representative disagree with when it comes to what they are working on, but one must respect that they should also have the opportunity to work for their views. Then I argued that they stayed well within what comes under the freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1961	I want to follow up the representative on the green jobs. We have a pilot at Hydro Karmøy who has given us a world-leading technology. It was realised through support from and cooperation with Enova and has given us new technologies, climate gains and jobs. But on the day that the company opened up, CO 2 emissions increased in Norway. The left is a driver of climate action, including climate action that pushes jobs out of Norway. Will the Left support and support measures to increase value creation and jobs in Norway, when emissions are increasing in Norway, but are being reduced globally?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1969	I would think that Hydro's factory at Karmøy had hardly received so much money from Enova and could have realized the bet if it hadn't been for Left's unkind and hard work just to strengthen Enova's whole since we came to the budgetary power in the autumn of 2013. Enova, as the representative rightly points out, is now – and strengthening there – one of the most important means of industrialising this type of technology in important districts, which Karmøy represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1974	The representative mentions small and medium-sized enterprises in his post, many of them in travel. For 2020, travel life alone is at risk of a fall in turnover of about 90 billion. kr. Furthermore, the main organisation for the commercial and service industries, Akte, points out that 96 of the Norwegian municipalities are employed in the travel sector one in ten in the private sector. In the first round of outbreaks of infection and closure, Stortinget adopted major emergency packages. In the second round, the government came late and with little. This creates uncertainty and uncertainty as to what kind of compensation companies can get. Saving money is now spent. Enterprises reach the point of seeking before changes occur. At the same time, the main instrument is set aside by the government. Travel life is doubled to summer, just when travel life can hope to see light in the tunnel. What does it mean that the Left will not give a lasting promise of low travel incomes to secure jobs and value creation throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1981	That is what is very good about the budget and the budget agreement that we are adopting today – the low rate of travel life has so far been passed on. It is the one that, with all the other corona measures, we are forced to follow developments closely, not least in travel, which we know are really tired because of infection measures and must constantly be offered a possible reassessment – either prolonging the measures or strengthening other measures. Whether it is worth passing on low VAT when we get to summer 2021, or whether there are other things, I think I'm too early to respond to now, but no one should be in any doubt that both the Left, the other two government parties and the Storting will follow developments closely and not least the South so that viable businesses in travel life will also have a future after the Corona situation has come under control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1987	We have less than ten years to cut half of the world's climate emissions to avoid dangerous climate change. But although we only have ten years left, Norway is still governed in 2021 against breaking climate goals. I noticed that the representative Breivik said in his speech that a green budget had become even greener with this budgetary agreement. Then we can read about measures like cutting 600 million. kr in climate taxes. We see 200 million. DKK cut from the UN Green Climate Fund, 28 million. SEK in the Innovation Norway cut, 20 million. kr less for voluntary forest protection and 10 mill. less to follow up on the circular economic strategy, to mention something. Do these grips make the budget greener?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1992	I respect the fact that the representative has probably not followed the whole debate today and what has been said about the pulpit and the change of lines. The budget agreement and the budget that we have now agreed with the Progress Party do not entail cutting any climate tax. It will be a continuation of the exact same fees. The car charges are exactly the same, and the one-time fee is exactly the same. There is no cut to the UN Climate Fund. There is what is called phase shift in this language, i.e. the date of the payment, etc. There is no doubt that, fortunately, the budgetary agreement to which the Progress Party has actively contributed, among other things. With the strengthening of the maritime sector, which is one of the most important industries in a green shift, the budget for 2021, which was initially very good for climate and green growth, is now even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e1997	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2002	When Christmas peace comes, I hope the two Prime Minister candidates Jonas Gahr Støre and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum think about this: We have a government in Norway that takes us safely through the crisis. We have a people who stand up for each other. We live in a country that prioritises life and health first. And we have a prime minister who has confidence in the people, and a people who show confidence back. When the opposition blacks, we know they're wrong, because when we go into 2021, we know that the country has a good budget. Yes, many are aware of uncertainty and fear. We're going to take that seriously. But we have a budget adopted today that is well adapted to the situation we are in, which ensures life and health and helps the social wheels to swing again. We ensure the capacity of health services, we secure people's jobs, and we protect the most vulnerable and vulnerable, both in Norway and internationally. During the throne debate here in Stortinget on 5 October, I stressed that the Christian People's Party should have looked at the political issues on which we have been elected. We've kept that promise. Now we get a majority for a budget with many good Christian People's Party averages, and I'm happy for that. It has been irrelevant for the Christian People's Party to be involved in cutting the number of quota refugees. This is about vulnerable people on the run. Now we ensure that Norway will continue to accept 3,000 quota refugees. We give greater security to the families of children, in line with our promises. Last year, for the first time in 20 years, we increased child welfare. The amount of children's pension has been increased by SEK 8,200 since 2019. For low-income families, increased income may not least contribute to improving the development of children, especially if the increase comes in the earliest years of life of children. We continue the cash support at a high level, and we have provided an offensive strengthening of the support to pregnant women outside of work. The Christian People's Party is burning for the care of the elderly. We have so much messed up here, and we just have to admit that it intersects in the heart every time we hear about individuals who become victims of a system that doesn't work. It's people we're talking about, and a everyday life that can be difficult to carry. I am pleased that we have provided funds for combating loneliness under the pandemic and increasing pensions, especially for lone minimum pensioners, who have the lowest income and at least to live off. These are important contributions. It's not enough, but it's a contribution to something that, for the Christian People's Party, just becomes more important and important to fight for: a worthy old age. I am not surprised that the opposition draws up the alcohol taxes in the budgetary agreement we have now reached. Yes, it is quite right: the Christian People's Party would not prioritise this kind of relief, whether it be alcohol, snuff or sugar, but I must remind you that the Christian People's Party is the party that also ensures that the main lines of Norwegian alcohol policy are firmly established. The wine monopoly system, the ban on alcohol advertising and the dissemination of information on the consequences of the use of alcohol are important instruments of Norwegian alcohol policy, and it is established. The Christian People's Party has always defended the monopoly of wine, and with this budget we keep what we promise. Once we have made concessions on so-called frontier goods, we do well to know that for the Progress Party is cheaper noise and snuffs more important than much else. They have to do it on their own, but an overall budget requires everyone to give and take. Norwegian alcohol policy is established, as it is also formulated in the Granavolden platform. The government provides safe and good governance of the country. The Christian People's Party is in charge. We do that together with the rest of the government and the entire Norwegian people. We're in a crisis that we're now going to get through together. The most important thing in life is probably not the state budget, but the people who live in this beautiful country of ours, the community, the voluntary commitment, the warm relationships, friends and family. But then it's good to know that for 2021 we have a government budget that is offensive, that is safe, and that is well adapted to the crisis that our country is now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2023	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2028	The representative Gruvan spoke of this as a budget for the weakest. Then I wonder if the representative Groevan has spoken to the boy who does not have room for the SFO because the family cannot afford to pay for that place, or if he has been told that the food queues before Christmas are longer than they have ever been. The Christian People's Party is the guarantor that we have a government going in a direction where the differences between people are increasing. It is more expensive to be sick, child care prices are increasing, holiday money for parents is going away, and this is going to affect the most vulnerable children we have in Norway. Child protection – and the children there – screams for more jobs, but they are not being listened to. Is this a good Christmas for the Christian People's Party, when the queues in front of the food distribution increase? And how will the Christian People's Party diminish the differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2037	I do not agree that the government is pursuing an unsocial policy. If we see what this government has done, I mentioned from the pulpit that we are now increasing child welfare by $3,600 a year. It didn't happen under the Arbeiderparti regime. If there's something that's targeted, we know that it works, not least for the poorest families. We've got a lot more teachers in school. It means much too early effort for the youngest children, and that all children will have equal opportunities. We have a free time card scheme where we now add up to 60 million. kr in 2021, which gives many more children the opportunity to participate in leisure activities, which is an important contribution to equalising social differences. Money is also allocated to full-time work in kindergarten for two- and three-year-olds in receptions and free core time both in kindergarten and in the SFO.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2044	Thanks for the answers. As I read this policy, there is a need test and alms policy, and that is because the Christian People's Party does not stand up for the basic structures that must exist in a society in order for the differences to be balanced. Neither the cash support, the leisure card nor the one-off benefit do anything for the large groups that are currently poor. The schemes are not very accurate, and they can be traps of poverty rather than getting people to work, which is the main cure for poverty and differences. In order to ensure good growth conditions for children, it requires good tripartite cooperation. Here too, the Christian People's Party has helped to reduce the income of ordinary families and the unemployed, while the richest have much more. I ask again: what will the Christian People's Party actually do to ensure that the differences in Norway are reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2055	Need-tested schemes are neither a child's or a leisure card. There are arrangements that shall apply to all. We believe that with the mechanism of these arrangements, it gives exactly all the possibilities that the representative Henriksen needs, namely to be more able to participate in the same activities no matter what kind of family background you might have. It allows for evening out differences and allows for more people to participate. There were several other things mentioned. It is clear that tripartite cooperation is important. It's a pillar of all social and work life. We fully support that below. It is also important to be able to maintain good social arrangements, both for workers and to make cooperation in our society work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2062	I am pleased that the Christian People's Party is now going to ensure full penetration of the Advance Party in terms of restraints in immigration policy, which can ensure that fewer people will have permanent residence in the future. But my question is quite simply: figures from the World Watch List 2020 show that there are 260 million Christians in the world who live under high, very high, or extreme persecution. Only since 2019 has the number increased by 15 million people. Every hour a woman is raped because she is a Christian. Every day, 8 are killed for their Christian faith. Every day 40 Christian homes are burned down or destroyed in another way. Every day, 10 Christians are unjustly imprisoned, and 26 churches and Christian buildings are attacked every day. The Christian People's Party has been strongly opposed to prioritizing Christian quota refugees. How can the representative of Gruvan defend this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2069	Let me first say that I am very pleased that, through the agreement with the Progress Party, we will retain the number of quota refugees that Norway will receive, namely 3,000. It was a very important breakthrough that we were very pleased with. It was an expression that we take responsibility in a situation where very many people are fleeing, where distress has not diminished, where war and unrest still characterize large parts of the world. Then I fully agree with the representative, Mr Listhaug, that it is those who need protection that need it. It also applies to persecuted Christians. This concerns ahmadiyya, Jesuit refugees — people with needs. That is the starting point for the allowance refugee scheme. Therefore, we are pleased that we can include these groups that we got into the agreement, as part of which Norway should give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2077	The economic situation in Norwegian municipalities is dramatic. With an ever tighter financial framework, municipalities must continue to finance new tasks and standards. Nearly half of the municipalities made a deficit in 2019. The redistribution of small and medium-sized municipalities to large municipalities makes the situation particularly dramatic in the smallest municipalities. Reduction in the level of service over the year means that it is now no longer possible to go on. The municipalities have given clear feedback on this. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party, the Government and the Advance Party choose once again to oblige the municipalities to cover an increasing share of resource-intensive services. 300 million. In order to cover this, municipalities have to save mainly the care of the elderly. Staff standards in schools and kindergartens protect these sectors, which is why the elderly are affected. A budget for the weakest, said the representative in the speech, but the elderly and caregivers are clearly not in that group. Is the Christian People’s Party satisfied that the municipalities are once again forced to reduce the staffing of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2084	Over time, the local economy has definitely become better than it was five to ten years ago. We see that fewer municipalities are on the ROBEK list, and we experience that the municipalities have good service arrangements that give the residents good, decent offers. This applies to both the elderly and other groups. So that's the way the representative, Mr. Greni, says, that the last year we've also received input because some municipalities are struggling. At the same time, we see that the offer provided by the municipalities is largely good, and the inhabitants are satisfied. In the case of resource-intensive services, we use approx. 11 B.C.E. For those municipalities that are now struggling with the economy, extra funds have been put in place to compensate them so that they can have the opportunity to get some extra funds to deal with the major challenges that individual municipalities can face because of relatively few users.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2093	The shunkhatten public high school is planned to be established in Valnesfjorden, and there should be a public high school where all people are given the opportunity to feel unique and equivalent, with inviolable human rights. On the Shunkhatten, a day-to-day waits without unnecessary barriers, so that the offer is available to all. The start-up grant to the Sjunkhatten will also be continued in 2021. It was supposed to be just missing, but there's still no grant for the Sjunkhatt to become a completely universally adapted new building. Will the Christian People's Party support SV, so that the Sjunkhat gets the money they need to realize the dream of a public high school with universal design and organization and thus real equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2098	I've been following the plans for the Sjunkhatten public high school for years. I know the concept well, and I think it's amazing that they're working with a school model based on universal design, which, as far as I can see, is the only one in the country who gets that profile and the ability to give an offer to these people, in combination with students without disabilities. I think it's a very good concept. The fact that they receive these funds now the third year in a row is the exception. There's no other public high school that's got it. It's just an expression that we want to get this done. But it's like this system that in order to get operational resources, the school has to be approved. It is not authorised as of today. I hope they can now use 2021 to get that approval in place, and then we in the Christian People's Party will join in and follow up on the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2105	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2110	This is the last financial figure in this four-year period, and the state budget for 2021 is the eighth in the series based on agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Over time, we have worked to solve both the short-term and the long-term challenges facing Norway. And our ambition has clearly been to create a sustainable welfare society for the generations that come after us, a society that is sustainable in both the environment and the climate, in the economic and social fields. With the budget that we're going to adopt tonight, we're also going to take an extra step forward in this. It is based on the government's draft budget, with strong efforts both on environmental measures to make the country more sustainable in the future, on financial measures to ensure that we have economic sustainability in the future, and on social measures, which are about Norway getting better for people living here, but not least to gain employment and activity. There is a budget on which four parties agree. It is a budgetary settlement which, of course, makes changes to the budget that has been advanced and in which the Progress Party has put its clear mark on the consensus that was expressed two days ago. This government budget for the next year is based on both dealing with the coronary apathy we are in the middle of, and following up and implementing the government's main strategy to take Norway out of the crisis, namely that we need to create more and include more. Since the budget was presented in October, infection has increased both in Norway and in other parts of Europe. It has increased uncertainty about economic developments both at home and in the countries with which we are dealing. This development was also the background for the government to make its own additional proposal with financial measures. We reintroduce a broad compensation scheme for business. We provide the municipalities with funding for additional costs, to ensure loss of income and to ensure further action in the health sector. Norwegian health services pass the test in response to an international major pandemic. I want to express my gratitude for and pride in the good work done in the first-line service in the municipalities, with the detection of infection, with the testing and also the job done in the hospital throughout the country to ensure that our healthcare system works as well as possible. Next year, we will strengthen the health system. We compensate health companies for the extra costs to the pandemic. We set off a significant amount of money to buy vaccines, and we put in measures to reduce waiting times, which have increased since March. A good health service and a good vaccine plan are essential to take Norway out of the coronary apathy. Furthermore, the state budget is specifically designed to get people back to work. We have to help companies get back on track all over the country, to get as much back to work as possible. This involves not only short-term management of the crisis, but also the long-term promotion and development of competitiveness. Having a job to do is at the heart of the development of a sustainable welfare society. Too many people of working age are out of work today. There's a waste of society's resources. It is a great loss for those who feel that there is no need for them, that they are not allowed to contribute. The Coronapandemic has made the situation more difficult for a lot of people, but it doesn't change the government's high ambitions that we're going to include much more in our working life in the future. In the future, we need to secure more legs to stand on, and the growth must come in private business. We build the road and the track. We improve the framework conditions for businesses. Therefore, it is also appropriate to reduce the tax on Norwegian ownership. We know that we're going to get speed in all of Norway, and then we need people, we need skills, and we need capital that wants to bet and develop. This has been important to us in all the eight years we have made budgets, but also in the past. And we see that many of the measures we started early on are producing results. We have now raised research efforts over public budgets, and companies have responded by promising their research efforts. We now have more – not least in the key future-oriented areas, in climate and innovation – from the international research funds we are a participant in than we did in the past, and Norwegian enterprises are central to this. So Norway's way out of the crisis is about creating more and including more. Then we need to focus on knowledge and competence. We need to put in place targeted measures to ensure that more people complete high school, and that they are more able to cope with the labour market. That is why we have an even stronger commitment to competence reform in this budget as well, and we are lifting the whole of education through Education 2020. The reform of competences promotes more targeted actions. It's about giving more people who are unemployed and on leave to finish school. It's about giving those who take their first step out of work, the opportunity to get a professional letter in combination with work. It is about further developing the sectoral programmes with the social partners. We have to do everything we can to prevent the crisis from pushing people out of the labour market. We're increasing the corporate allocation to Nav, so they can help and help even more people. They also spend about 7 000 new labour market measures, for having a job to go to is important for the individual. We continue inclusion efforts and increase youth efforts and the follow-up of young people on the AAP. For Norwegian business and knowledge environments, the European Community is very important. This state budget marks the beginning of the next stage of Norwegian participation in EU Framework Programmes. It is important for research cooperation, student exchange, industrial cooperation and several other areas. And by agreeing on the state budget, the enhanced cooperation on the defence industry is also. With the state budget for 2021, the government is strengthening the long-term efforts to strengthen both the sustainability and competitiveness of the Norwegian economy. This is why the next year’s government budget is also designed to address the long-term challenges. It is a milestone that in this budget we provide a green light for the implementation of the industrial and climate project Langskip – the largest climate project in Norwegian history. Long-distance shipping will cut emissions, facilitate new technologies and therefore new jobs. Our goal is that many other countries and projects can use the storage capacity and draw on the skills developed in this project. We provide billions to develop tomorrow's climate solutions and strengthen Norwegian competitiveness. Let's do that, for example. in the programmes Green Platform and Hydrogen Bet and via Enova’s instruments. The budget for next year also includes a number of measures to strengthen maritime industry. Increased opportunities for conversion and combination contribute to both activities on the yards and lower emissions. This has been further reinforced in the agreement reached at Stortinget. This budget also has a clear social profile. Over the years, we have now taken advantage of the experience of being a child in a family of low incomes – by ensuring that you get free core time in kindergarten, by means of income upgrading in kindergartens, by providing more vacation time for everyone, and by providing more leisure activities. We are taking new steps in the development of a national holiday card through the budget, and we are adding more to this budget to projects for free SFOs and to income-grade payment in the SFOs for the 3rd and 4th grades. The State budget for 2021 will be involved in taking Norway out of the crisis, but it will also be involved in addressing the long-term challenges for Norway in the future. So for the eighth time, the Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, have agreed on a budget that will lead the way further to Norway and that will provide a better basis for our sustainable welfare society in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2152	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2157	Let me first say that I think it's nice to be able to say in Stortinget that we're together in the fight against the infection, and we've been doing that since March. It's excitement to follow the advice that the health authorities give, and I also want to give the Prime Minister recognition for having fronted it. What this is a discussion is how we deal with the consequences of these measures for the Norwegian economy. The Prime Minister says several times that it is important to have a job to go to. Since we are also dealing with the crisis package here today, I will ask the Prime Minister the following questions: How could it happen that when it alerted the other wave came – as we knew in April, we saw it in the statistics of the Institute of Public Health – we did not have a compensation system in place that could work from then on? Then the companies were less robust, there was less money in the cash register, and now they have to wait until the end of the new year before they get money. The news comes from Works and others that several of these companies are at risk of going to an end as a result of the fact that the money is not available. How could that happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2164	It has been clear that we would bring a compensation package – from quite early September – to replace the schemes that have been in the past, and follow it up. But there have been questions in the discussion about how wide that package should be, depending on developments in the Norwegian economy. That is why we have had these discussions repeatedly with the social partners, and we have had public arrangements that have not least and especially been aimed at travel and catering, which are still the core companies that are most struggling. Those packages have been clearly coming, but we have gone from the principle of post-control to pre-control. Then we have to have a control system and a system in place for that. That's what's going on right now, and it's because, unfortunately, we didn't all follow the trust-based arrangement in relation to the arrangement that the tax administration had in the past, which shows that there's going to be a lot of postwork to clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2169	The layout of different groups out in the business and working life is a discussion – how much travel life, how do we see the different industries – but that the solution was not there! In May-June, it was said that the tax rate could not handle a new scheme. Well, it might have been if it had been allocated resources. Why not use July, August, September, October both to look at the situation in the economy and the labour market, and to have a system in place that could pay out the money when it happened? We now get concrete examples of companies that go over the top. I recently saw an example from a travel company in Tromsø, where he who runs that company had to sell his equipment in order to have money in advance for him to get this solution out in the New Year. The Minister of Local Affairs said that municipalities would lower the property tax as a handshake. Most of those who run stores are renting their premises. So once again, the question is, why haven't you used the time to have a system that could be there now? That's what happens, that people don't get a job to do because it just doesn't work. Here the government has neglected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2176	We have just spent August, September and October developing this system. Therefore, the first sketch of this scheme was published quite early, in the month change of September/October, on the framework we had for it. But then it was more limited and not quite general for everyone, because then we didn't see that such a wide range of businesses would be hit, then we saw what's still the core, that's the travel and leisure industry. And then this has to do with knowing what the financial situation is, so have approved the auditor's obligation based on the 2020 financial year in order to be able to assess the results against 2019. So that's how we delivered on this. As regards the question of how the situation is, for example: in Oslo, this system is very well adapted to what is the main challenge in Oslo, that is to say, that so much has been addressed to travel and other businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2184	This is simply not good enough. One boasted in April that in three weeks’ time a trust - based system could be set in motion quickly. Then it was so urgent that the companies could get support. Then it's perfectly reasonable to evaluate how the arrangements work. If the trust is broken, you get to go inside and look at it. However, July, August, September, October and November have not been used to repair this. The problem now is that the scheme is there, but there are still lots of details and techniques that make the money not coming. I would then like to ask the follow-up question: those who are now particularly affected by local infectious diseases where the infection is most serious, and where the most interventional measures come, type Oslo and Bergen, but also small municipalities that face challenges of this nature, should have a special follow-up now, because they have become victims of, or affected by, the severity of the disease protection measures. Will the Prime Minister consider that these enterprises, which may be historical and have done a good job, and which have had to shut down due to infection prevention measures, are involved and included in the compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2191	Firstly, I would like to stress that this is a scheme that depends on how much money you lose. The more money you get, the more income you get. The stronger the infection prevention measures there is, the more money companies will get, as losses are greater. In this way, the scheme is fully adapted to the situation. When we had shut down in April and March, 35 pst went. of compensation for those who received for April to companies in Oslo, despite being a much smaller number of enterprises, because the measures were locally stronger in Oslo. So this is typically a dynamic system to help businesses more where they are. So to the question of which arrangements, and that this is late. It is possible that the representative will never be satisfied, but if he looks around a little bit to his neighbouring countries and to his social-democratic colleagues, he will see that we pay faster, that this system is more effective, and that we actually give more in compensation than our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2198	We could just read in our country's newspaper a claim that the Progress Party was unable to secure the millions needed to start the introduction of early ultrasound and NIPT into the public health system, and that it is therefore moving towards a solid delay. State Secretary Maria Jahrmann Bjerke says it's just coughing up the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2203	I don't recognize myself in this description of reality. And since both the Prime Minister and I sat in the same room when we discussed these questions, I was going to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to help clear up this misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2206	It is true that the Health Directorate has now done the first part of the work needed to establish this system, with analyses and how to establish early ultrasound, and what it will cost. In the consensus we have, we have a verbal proposal that is related to this, which says that we should come back with the whole system and the time phase for it in the context of the revised national budget. But our starting point is that this should not lead to any delays, and it has been the whole time. Therefore, it would be that in those areas that I particularly understand are concerned with getting enough competent midwives to early ultrasound, competence measures can already be started. And then we're going to make sure that healthcare companies do that, that during the spring semester, the skills measures that are needed to enable us to implement this at the same pace, in line with what has been the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2215	I'm glad that the Prime Minister is cleaning up the leftover impression, because I don't want it on me that the Progress Party has been committed to maintaining the consensus that came in the Stortinge in connection with the Biotechnology Agreement. That's good. But let me ask the Prime Minister a completely different question. I am very pleased that in the budget negotiations we got the government parties to reverse the negative proposals related to the private kindergartens, but what I don't understand is why it's good right-wing policy to make such proposals, which would help to weaken the diversity of the kindergarten sector, which would help to weaken competition in the kindergarten sector, and which would clearly help to weaken private ownership. Perhaps the Prime Minister can explain why this is good right-wing policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2222	The proposals in the State budget relating to private kindergartens are based on the review of where there are similarities and differences between public and private kindergartens. In particular, in the field of pensions, we have considered that private kindergartens with the rules that have existed are overcompensated for their pension costs. We let that in. There is no doubt that getting less income is perceived as difficult for all kindergartens, but we have been concerned that there should be equal treatment between private and public kindergartens and that private kindergartens should not have more initially. That's what we've been fighting all along, for example. with regard to the introduction of the standard of manning and in relation to the legislation relating to the calculation of these systems by municipalities. So I think what we proposed by the government was equal treatment between public and private kindergartens. When we have agreed not to implement this, it means that private kindergartens have a little better compensation – not necessarily all, but at least many of them – than the municipality has.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2231	The Norwegian public sector and the state make purchases for approx. 550 B.C.E. kr per year. They are the second largest demand for goods, services and investment in the Norwegian Community. It has an enormous amount to say what the state and the public sector are doing. We had a rather strong debate in the Storting in ours about whether we could take the lead, and whether the government was willing to take the lead, which meant that a greater proportion of purchases benefited Norwegian businesses, Norwegian businesses and therefore Norwegian jobs – if you were willing to use the policy actively by adding that kind of leadership: Buy more Norwegian by setting quality requirements and other types of requirements. The right was then absolutely no supporter for it; they were strongly opposed to using the state in that way. Does Prime Minister Erna Solberg now, with the high unemployment rate, wish to distort public procurement so that there will be more Norwegian and more Norwegian jobs when we are going to buy goods and services in the coming year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2238	The government has an explicit strategy that we should contribute to innovation and innovation through our public procurement and that we should contribute to industrial development in Norway through it – not to be a protectionist, but to contribute to the partnership by making demands and cooperating in order to develop new products. We do that, and we look at health issues, where we can buy innovative, new products or contribute to private delivery in some areas. We do that in terms of green requirements, where we set environmental requirements to raise the status. But purely protectionist demands do not seem right, because they would help to hit Norwegian business, which is extremely export-oriented. We need to sell our goods in other countries, we need to be able to stand up and say that we don't like those regulations, because it's protectionism, and it'll help reduce welfare in Norway. But innovative, innovative measures are what we contribute to, and we teach buyers in the country to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2245	The fact that Norwegian politicians in the community and the Norwegian state are thinking about how to raise Norwegian businesses, I don't think of it as protectionism. I think of it as an active policy to bring unemployment down, because unemployment is sky high.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2250	One of the problems now is that there are 60,000 people who are wholly or partly on leave who are now on their way into the Christmas season with a great deal of uncertainty because the 12-month period is soon over. Before the summer, the Prime Minister and the government were very reluctant to commit themselves to going from six to twelve months, but then they were pressured through the summer to agree to have a twelve-month leave. The Korona crisis is still there. Those who have been licensed have been completely innocent in it. Hotels, restaurants and others have had to do so because of the decisions taken by the government because of the protection of infection. Will the Prime Minister now be able to give rest to those who are on leave and say that, as a community, we shall once again secure the income of the 60 000 who are now attending an uncertain Christmas celebration and extend the law of leave by six more months?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2256	Those who were outsourced during the financial crisis were completely innocent in the financial crisis. Those who were licensed during the oil price drop were completely innocent in the oil price drop. There's no difference between it and the pandemic as such – I think we should base that on. At that time, we had worse arrangements, including: at the time the representative himself was in government. Now we have better arrangements. Then I would like to say one thing about being on leave versus going on a day's payroll or getting laid off. In fact, there are many of the investigations that have been made that show that it is a challenge if you go for too long and then get free afterwards. It's a challenge when you've spent a lot of your time on daily living, without being an active job seeker, getting a bigger place before you get into a new job, getting more difficult into the labour market. So it's not always a dream to be permitted. We're going to evaluate this situation continuously, all the time. We will assess it in view of the labour market situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2265	I don't think any of those who are licensed look at it as a dream, which was the word Erna Solberg chose to use. I think it feels more like a nightmare that you have so much uncertainty about your job and your working life. It's also very scary to drive and draw parallels to that there were some perms who had it difficult ten years ago. The point is that people have the life they have here and now, and we are responsible here and now. It's very special that we have the infection situation that we now have, which makes us actually don't want people going back to work. We want them to be home because of the situation, and Erna Solberg as Prime Minister has been the most obvious of all if that is the wish. I also believe that the Prime Minister and the government have an additional responsibility to provide income security, provide predictability, ensure that there are fewer cancellations, where possible. Right Kapur, the chairman of the Finance Committee, was totally reprehensible, but some other speakers today have been a little more open to think about one more time. Will Prime Minister Erna Solberg think again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2272	I understand very well that the representative Vedum does not like to be reminded of his story, because then he also remembers the swing door he is currently going in, in very many political matters. As far as this question is concerned, my starting point is that we are going to try to secure income for everyone, but the most important guarantee of income for people who are unemployed or on a daily basis is actually getting back to work. That's why we have to work with the workplaces opening up and coming back, and then we have to work with people who don't come back to the job they've been in before, getting into a new job. What I think the representative underestimates is that when people go on leave very long and the job doesn't come back, the leave period may have damaged them in the labour market. Then it means that you have not been actively looking for work and found a new job, and you have started getting a hole in your CV that gets quite big. That's why it's not an answer for everyone, and that's why I see many people who actually say it myself: I am looking for a job rather than continuing to go on a permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2281	The Prime Minister lacks answers as to why no support schemes for business are in place in time. That means that she will bear a heavy responsibility if we now get a bankruptcy rate. Being in front of Stefan Löfven doesn't help. The question is whether the Prime Minister is far enough ahead of the situation we have in Norway. But I record that we do not get an answer to that, so let me take tax. For a long time, spider doctors on the Right have succeeded in making the Norwegian tax debate deal with total tax revenue at social level, as if it were the most important thing for each. The most important thing for each one is the distribution. With SV's draft budget, 72 pst. by those who have income in the country received lower taxes than with Erna Solberg’s scheme – lower taxes for most people with SV’s scheme. Why is it so important for the Prime Minister that ordinary workers pay more taxes than they would do with the budgets of the left?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2288	Of course, the most important thing for most people is what they're left with, and then it's nice to say that in the eight years we've made budgetary compromises between the four parties, an average family is left with $14,000 more than what they did at the entrance of this government's reigns. That means you've got a significant relief through it. In addition, the reconciliation we've done here contributes to further relief in spending, which is not so stupid for families with children. For the poorest children's families, we have removed important bills for many, such as: the nursery bill. They don't necessarily pay for kindergarten anymore. It is income upgrading or free kindergarten for many children in the core age. It's a very important effort that we've made focused. That is the opposite of what happened when the maxac was introduced, when many with low incomes experienced that with red-green policies they had to pay more for a nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2293	Now the prime minister forgets to add that for too many families the kindergarten has become more expensive. They get a little cheaper chocolate on Saturday, but it doesn't help that much if the nursery is more expensive every day for the rest of the week. The Prime Minister is not really concerned with what I was asking for, namely the difference in the distribution of tax proposals to the left and the right. The right-hand side has been running away for a very long time from saying that they want lower taxes at the social level, while the truth is that the red-green opposition, and I think that applies to all parties, suggests lower taxes for ordinary workers than what Erna Solberg does. It will mean a rather different tax debate than the Right spin doctors have very often had in Norwegian election campaigns. Why does the Prime Minister think it is right that ordinary workers pay more and the rich less in taxes than the opposition suggests?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2298	The sum of the years we have behind us in tax policy shows that we have given more in tax relief to families and families in general than the left-hand side has done. One of the reasons we have a removal of property taxes is that we think that creating more jobs is one of the most important safeguards for people in the future. We now see who's struggling. Mass family-run businesses around the country receive a tax package from the left in Norway aimed at making it more difficult for them to develop, draining businesses for more of their income by increasing the tax on the owner’s location in the company. There's money in the company from the owner, which is what's the security to be able to be on the green shift, on the new technology operations, to secure the jobs, to do all the other things. They must be milked out to enter the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2303	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2308	The debate is going on in a familiar way, with perhaps one exception, and I think that the representative of Greece stood for that in his change of lines with the representative Gahr Støre, where he tried to ridicule and trivialise the actual reality out there, which is quite gloomy, which is quite serious, and which affects people and businesses directly. When 200,000 are out of work and one in eight companies can go bankrupt, the situation is, of course, serious. And when the representative of Greece tries to ridicule this in a comical way, it tells me something about a representative who doesn't understand the situation and the seriousness, one who may never have known about financial insecurity, and who, in the worst case, doesn't know how ordinary people can now feel economic insecurity. The fact that you have a permit to reduce your income by 20 pst. – one must sit well in this room in order initially not to be able to feel the way it feels. If you go straight out here and talk to the perm, the economic situation is quite demanding. Or one talks to the business owners who might see their life's work disappear because the government lacks a sense of crisis at a time when businesses need money to pay their bills and they say they have to go to the bank and borrow them. It is quite serious, and it bears witness to both representatives and a government that lacks understanding of the reality out there. The Minister of Finance wrote a letter to the Finance Committee of Stortinge in June and explained that the tax rate would have major problems in taking on new tasks, and when we now ask the Prime Minister what they have done in July, August, September and October to put in place a payment scheme that would help the companies that are now on the edge of the dump, we get no answer. They devalue the situation, and it is completely incomprehensible that they did not give a mission to the Brønn Island Health Registers until October. There's a lack of crisis understanding, there's poor crisis management, and there's evidence that the right-wing government doesn't understand what kind of situation very many people out there are actually experiencing in the Norwegian business community. This will mean that businesses are bankrupt, that workers are losing money and income. In addition, they have provided a government budget that does not address the major challenges on the side of the pandemic. One does not have a government budget that raises the opportunities for Norwegian business. One does not have a government budget that addresses the serious challenges we face with export promotion. One does not provide a government budget to maintain maritime competence, which will deliver on sea wind, blue hydrogen, carbon capture and storage, maritime industries and marine industries in the future. No, they don't. Then comes the Progress Party and boasts that they have made a maritime package that is cheered over around the coast, but Siv Jensen lacks an answer as to why they have gone so far under the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, and then they bring tax charges to the Workers' Party – she who has been sitting for six and a half years as a finance minister without removing the wealth tax, which is the Progress Party and the Mantra of the Right. It's completely incomprehensible. But it is therefore a budget that has been put forward that is lacking to address the opportunities there: growth and scaling up of businesses, strengthening export opportunities, a strong commitment to the maritime industry, which is one of our future industries, green shipping, recycling offshore ships that are at berth and never to sail again, a significant investment in hydrogen as a future energy carrier, a lifting of carbon capture and storage. These are important future areas that can be involved and raise Norwegian business. But the common feature of government to the industries and to those areas is that they are overlooked, neglected and not taken care of. It's absolutely amazing that someone doesn't take advantage of the amazing opportunities we have, lifting up the industries and the skills that lie there. Instead, this has become a debate down to a level where someone is trying to present the situation in such an irresponsible and comical way that it is not worthy of this hall, at a time that is very demanding for this country and for very many people and owners of businesses around the country. We have to deal with this, and we should do something about this. One should actually think a little bit about that now, many months after the previous compensation scheme went out, we don't have the opportunity to pay the companies very much needed money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2323	First of all, I would like to say that a tribute to the debates in this Chamber is that, although they may be tough and offensive, they are truthful. In this way, the representative Vedum’s statements in the reply were an exception earlier today. There he said, among other things: That the Right hired people from First House to create spins, and that there appeared a new state secretary from there every four months. I understand that the representative Vedum might have run out of arguments, but it's simply not true, and it probably knows Vedum well. What we thought three and a half years ago would be a relatively short-lived national extreme situation has proved to be a reality we've had to deal with for a long time. I am impressed by the efforts of the health services and the endurance of the Norwegian people. Many individuals and businesses have been under severe pressure and in great uncertainty because of infection, disease, isolation, loneliness, job loss and loss of life's work, and still there is no more. That's very tough for many. Nearly 200,000 people are totally or partially unemployed and miss a job to go to. Even though the number is going down, there are too many, and we're going to do everything we can to prevent that release from snapping, because the virus will still be among us in the future. But fortunately, the vaccine will soon be available to us. The value of Norway’s international cooperation and the EEA Agreement now show its strength. Then it is all the more worrying that we have parties in this room that will captivate Europe and introduce a single-use policy here to land, a risk sport The evening post last Saturday characterized as a policy that will put Norwegian interests at risk and fail Norwegian citizens. Fortunately, we have had predictive politicians before us who have made wise choices, and we have also conducted a responsible policy in good times, so that we had reserves to settle for when the crisis struck us. We have done so by putting in place strong measures in financial and monetary policy, to provide security, to strengthen welfare systems and to provide income protection in the event of unemployment, sickness or child care, and to help minimise the number of possible bankruptcies, through support to private sector enterprises. Infection wave two of the pandemic has made it necessary to reintroduce more stringent measures for the protection of infectious diseases, thereby further strengthening and extension of financial measures since the submission of the State budget and the additional number presented. The overall budgetary unity we have now established through the agreement with the Progress Party shows the way out of the crisis for Norway. The budget is about creating more and including more. The most important thing for us is to fight the infection and then get people back to work. At the same time, we need to ensure the necessary adjustment of the economy and of the jobs, because the reality we encounter on the other side is not what we left. That is why we also need to tackle the more fundamental challenges in the Norwegian economy at the same time. We'll do what's necessary to get there. We will take care of jobs, provide people with the necessary financial security, include and qualify more, increase efforts for green migration, facilitate new growth and not least maintain confidence and security in Norwegian society. In the meantime, we have to endure. We have to keep distance, and -- most importantly -- we have to stick together. Christmas won't be what we've been looking forward to. It's not going to be normal. Now, fortunately, it's a relief on the Corona measures on Christmas weekend, so that we can get a few more together, for example. on Christmas Eve or at New Year's Eve. That's good, because there's something we need now, it's "mytji light and mythic heat" together with those that mean the most to us. The government and Erna Solberg's trademark are safe governance. What we promise is full effort in the future as well. We're going to steer the country safely on a steady course, get through the coronary crisis, and together we're going to take our daily lives back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2344	I am very pleased with the great attention that the Progress Party has received for its impact on tax cuts in the negotiations with the government parties, cut off the levy on chocolate, beer, wine and shower, precisely because we are talking here about important products for the purposes of border trade. These are the baits, and then we have to do something about the level of fees and the level of prices in order to raise the current threshold, so that not so many travel across the border to Sweden and trade goods instead of trading them in Norway, in the Norwegian market, and strengthen Norwegian jobs. So I'm recording that the Workers' Party is now deliberately talking this down, this really doesn't matter. Then I think the Workers' Party should tell those who have now got a job in the daily food industry or in other sales in e.g. Eastfold, to those who have gone unemployed, and who have now got a job because the border is closed and there is no border trade. So it has an immediate effect on Norwegian employment. I think the Labour Party should tell these people, whether they're Ola or Kari, that it really doesn't matter what we do with the fee level, because there are other things that are much more important. This is, in fact, an important contribution to strengthening Norwegian jobs. The Progress Party and the government parties all first agreed on was a good and solid crisis package for Norwegian business. It was very important for the Progress Party to clarify this as early as possible in the negotiations on the state budget for next year. It was important to remove uncertainty, it was important to give Norwegian business the opportunity to plan ahead, it was important to help coronated jobs and not least to create predictability. We had clear priorities when we went into these negotiations, and those priorities were based on contact with reality out there, different industries that stand in the middle of a rough time, employees, all those who do their utmost to make this work in the middle of the pandemic. They live with the economic uncertainty every day. It's about security for most people. Fortunately, our non-socialist partners had an understanding of the message we received. We got an increase in compensation, we got an increase in the ceiling on the maximum payment, we got a better package for aviation – and more will come. We got an advantage for the full removal of the air passenger charge in 2021 and a continuation of the reduced low tax until 1 July. Government parties have been very concerned about the cultural sector. The cultural sector has received extremely favourable arrangements and income protection. The party to the progress is at least equally engaged in other industries, not least the event industry, trade fairs, which also now have almost zero activity due to the measures to protect infection. Many of them are also self-employed, so they now have an extended period of income protection thanks to the Progress Party. We're not exactly on target. There is nothing to suggest that this crisis is over by the turn of the year. That is why it is so important that we follow developments closely, and that we now also have concrete mandates to the government to come back with both a general compensation scheme and other schemes adapted to different industries – and not least to catch up with aviation. And then we have to think about it in the future. The tax system must help Norwegian job creators to avoid competition from foreign investors, whether from Europe, the United States or China. Without local investors, Norwegian business is bad out there. There is no doubt that the property tax discriminates against Norwegian owners who choose to live in Norway and invest in Norway. That is why we must continue to work to eliminate that discrimination. It was the representative Knutsen who snarled a little over the tax rhetoric of the right and showed examples from the United States. I would recommend Knutsen to take a trip across the border, perhaps primarily to Denmark, but also to Sweden, and talk to his social-democratic colleagues. They have a completely different view of what tax means for jobs. Not least, it became clear when the Danes discussed their tax reform before we adopted spring 2016 [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2364	The president stresses that it's important to keep up the speaking time, and that when the club goes, it's just to stop talking.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2369	The right parliamentary leader, Trond Helleland, said earlier in the debate that we in the opposition had to be a little gentler, a little more positive and optimistic. The center party is in a positive position, and we're optimistic. The mission that we have as elected representatives in the nation's national assembly when people and businesses are hit by a big pandemic is to give security to people and ensure that people and businesses can have optimism and confidence in the future through concrete measures that work in the practical everyday life. One of the people I've met in the last few months, one who really has the right to be optimistic, is one of the co-authors of Jahn Tegen's famous song "Optimist", Knut Meiner. He has been a central player in the event industry in Norway. He has been waiting for round after round, heard that there have been fine words describing that the event industry should now be taken care of, now travel lives, which have not been properly cared for, and others are being cared for. Then he went into and looked at the arrangements and was disappointed again and again. After the crisis package agreement that the government parties and their supporting party the Progress Party stand and boast of here, his message in the newspaper – as a Right-Member for 40 years – was that the Right had not given him one good reason to renew membership. It's not just about Knut Meiner as an individual. I'm sure he'll be able to cope with the crisis. In this case, for the event industry, it is about 5 000 employees around the whole of Norway and approx. 30000 freelancers in a very serious situation. Similarly, last week when I talked to a restaurant owner at Storo here in Oslo, he said that in March, when he saw Minister of Finance Jan Tore Sanner on TV, he got freezes when he heard the Minister of Finance say that we have a welfare society in Norway, and that we had to stand up for each other in the crisis. So when it comes to the practical reality, one sees that the compensation schemes that were designed don't make, and that the loan guarantee scheme doesn't make. One does not ensure that businesses are brought through the crisis in a good way. That's why we have to make better arrangements. When the practical reality in which people stand is not consistent with the speech points of the government parties and the supporting party The Progress Party joins the Chamber, it is the speech points that need to be changed and the policy that needs to be changed. We must ensure a crisis policy that contributes to job creation and provides people with security and predictability through the crisis. We must ensure that the compensation schemes are reinforced and extended, that the income insurance system for self-employed workers is increased again, and that it is given a minimum duration until summer, and that all those who have been on leave and who are now in danger of being cancelled after the period of leave expires soon. It's fine when the prime minister stands here and talks about that yes, the best thing would have been if one had gotten into another job. But for them it's about still having a foot within, continuing to have a security in being able to go back to work when the crisis is over. Therefore, it is wise, when we are in the greatest crisis for countries and people since World War II, that we have powerful measures and a plan both to support businesses and workers and to ensure activity and conversion. To what has been said by several speakers here about travel life: I heard, for example. The representative Breivik says we'll have to assess that a little over the year. This is not how we develop tax policies in Norway – that in the case of tax decisions taken in the State budget, we see a little back and forth how things develop. We have to give a long-term predictability, and especially for those who are hardest hit, who want to be optimists, but then we have to give them reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2382	This is the last financial debate with the sitting government. It even said the Prime Minister, I noticed, and I support it. We can look back on seven years, when the differences have increased significantly. There are record children growing up in poverty, and there are record billionaires. The big stakes have gone to the richest in the country, without the government being able to show that this has led to more businesses. Rather, they show their own figures and facts that tax cuts to the richest have nothing to do with industrial policy. It's not enterprise policy; it's different policies they've had in the last seven years. Even in the budget for next year, which is largely about pandemics, the government has managed to scrape together a little extra money from the community – to the richest in the country. It has our seven lost years for the environment and climate. The government is far behind its own targets of cutting emissions, and at this rate Norway will reach the climate measurement several decades too late. And it's too late. Without a green conversion plan, they present the budget year after year. The only thing that follows a certain degree of planning is that the rich will get a little more, and that the number of poor children will get a little higher. Since March we have been in a crisis, a pandemic. We have introduced the most interventional measures in peacetime. Because of this, many people have gotten worse. Children and young people have lost valuable time. Loneliness has become an even greater social problem. And it's as of December 1, 195,800 total or partial unemployment. That's 6.9 pst. by the labour force. Many farms are rams, whether they are cinemas, pubs, dross, or shipyards. Small and medium-sized enterprises are particularly hard frameworks. The government has met the crisis in a customary way. Yes, they introduce crisis measures and support mechanisms, but it's always a little too small, always a little too late. There's always someone out there. The result is unnecessary suffering, unnecessary unemployment, unnecessary bankruptcy. It's unlikely hard to meet people who are directly hard on the crisis response: the travel life actor who has to shoot his bikes because he can't have them anymore, people who have built up businesses from the ground up and had a healthy economy every year, but who, because of the situation we're in now, sees his whole life's work falling together. It's hard to see that situation. And it's completely unnecessary that healthy businesses that have gone with excess years after year don't get the help they need, because the government is going to change order and is not banned at all. The money's getting too late, and many unnecessary bankruptcies are coming. It's completely unnecessary. I notice that in many ways, many people — if they are able to get up again afterwards — have the energy to do so. That's what the government really needs. On the table in front of us now we also have SV's alternative suggestions. There we set out both a plan for green conversion and a plan for a green shift on the people's premises, where we both use the situation we are now, to shape the country green, and take care of the workers and increase the justice of society. We have crisis measures that cover a lot more, which means that those who today fall outside fall, fall inside, that last longer, and where the level is higher, so that one actually prevents people from going down. We have space for this, and we can afford this. Our option isn't multiple for this time. For stock exchange speculators and oil directors, justice and climate change are a threat to their lives. The government is their ally. But for all of us, fair distribution and climate change is the way to a good life. We want to reverse the period of pandemic, billionaire party, unemployment, increasing disparities and climate paralysis with an offensive green transformation on the people's premises. We will use the next few years to build the country green with new industries, industry and infrastructure, where differences will be reduced, climate targets will be reached and centralisation will be reversed. We want to return to a policy of equality and a clean working life and give the country a government without right-wing populists.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2418	Although the Right parliamentary leader thought that the sun would turn soon, it has been a heavy year too many, and that is not over. With other waves of infection came new layoffs and new people who are concerned about whether they can pay their bills, and the news that jobs are disappearing. How a crisis is managed in the start-up phase defines the entire wider crisis management process. Therefore it was absolutely necessary for us in the Workers' Party that we sent a very clear signal from the first moment that no one should stand alone. It should be that the community prepares for you, that your income should be predictable even if your everyday life is not, that your family is safe, and that your health is taken care of when it is heavy. But are the workers sure of what's going to happen in the future, thinking about what happens after April if there's no room for longer lay-offs? Will the new year’s grant be cancelled because the period of leave expires in April? Why doesn't the government already want to say that they're working for the workers anymore? Companies demand predictability and are surprised that the government does not have a system in place to pay out the aid amounts. It's not just surprising, it's actually bad political work that once again you don't have systems in place to secure jobs. After years of cuts for the richest, it must now be the turn of the workers. This is why the Workers' Party went into the labour force when Norway closed down in March. This has meant that many have been hit by permits, but nevertheless have received a decent wage to live for. But many billionaires have got more than what the government thought was enough. It was absolutely necessary that the government didn't get what it proposed, because when we get a budget settlement overtime, it's all about things other than the 200 000 who are out of work. Anyone who has been hit by the closure this year, but who is back to work next year, will have a summer month almost without income. This means that a quarter of a million Nordics will have less purchasing power, less opportunity to spend money on restaurants, hotels and travel activities at a time when these companies are in need of customers. It's also fundamentally unfair. Why can we afford to give the 1,000 richest people in this country a champagne bottle a day in a tax haven, while we can't afford to give those who have been unemployed this year money to bring their family on a little vacation next year? Our proposal to reintroduce the holiday supplement on the day money that the Solberg government has said is crazy is quite fair. It's our proposal that provides justice, and it's not madness. As of 2017, the Workers' Party has proposed to follow what was the intention of the pension reform, that the pension be regulated by the average wage and price. We proposed this last time in the debate on the throne. In the agreement, there's finally a new way of calculating it, but only for 2021. Why won't the government say that they should correct the injustice again even in the years to come? We believe that there is a need for a permanent change, as we have suggested several times, but we have been voted down every single time. We've been through a hard time, and it's not over. A pandemic has been part of the crisis scenarios for which the health care system has planned, and we knew that it would have consequences for the rest of society. People get hit, the inequality will shoot speed if the free will snap. That's why we have to stand up for the workers, always, to secure people's incomes and secure jobs. For the Workers' Party, this will also apply to those who, in July 2021, attend the holiday month almost without income. It's not crazy to give people holiday money. That's justice. Now it's the turn of the workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2437	2020 has been a year that has put our society to the test. In the early days, it was about dealing with the acute consequences of the closure of the country by the government on 12 March. Permitting legislation and suspension of taxes and charges were concerned. During the time that followed, it was about putting in place schemes to ensure business support schemes to ensure that they got over their knees. In the third phase, it was about the way out of the crisis. Now we're back in a new wave of infection, and we have to act again then. But it doesn't have to mean that the thoughts we've made about the way out of the crisis and the conversion of the Norwegian economy, can't be with us at the same time. I would like to thank my colleagues in the Finance Committee, the members of the Government, in particular the Minister of Finance, the ministry of the Departments and our staff here on the Stortingen for the enormous effort that has been made this year. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that it is not for us that it is the worst for in this situation. It's the many tens of thousands of Northmen who now attend a very uncertain Christmas, and it's about those who are affected by the Korona virus. You have it as safest in life when you have a job to go to and a good health. This is also often related. If you have work, you have networks, a reason to get up in the morning, your own money and the freedom to fill your life with more of what you want. That's exactly why creating more and including more is so important to the Right. It's our vision for a society where everyone can contribute their own, and where we have a business that creates values and more jobs. It's finally that I think we see a completely sunny distinction between the four cooperation parties and the left. We understand that it is only through an active and thriving business that we have money to distribute for good purposes. It's only through economic growth that we can facilitate wealth and more jobs. It is only through market access to the outside world that we can assure all export companies along our long-term country customers to sell their goods to. And it's only through predictable and improved framework conditions companies dare to invest more and make room to invest. For all of these points, there are parties on the left hand side that have it as their policy to go the other way. So let me focus on the last -- framework conditions, like taxes and fees. We have SV, which is going to increase the taxes by 18 billion. kr, Green Party, which will be slightly above 30 billion. kr, and red, which is a little less than 30 br. kr. And we have the Workers' Party, which will increase the taxes by 7 billion. kr. Common to all of them is that these increases in taxes, in addition to meeting ordinary citizens, hit Norwegian business hard, and that at the worst possible time. All over the country, Norwegian farm owners are already holding blood - red numbers. And what's the left-hand side mean is the solution? Well, you have to take more money out of the company, a company that's already naked, to pay a tax that the left-hand side wants to sit here in Oslo and distribute it again. Instead of allowing business owners to spend their money, change and invest for the future and hire more, the left-hand side believes that it is a right grip because it is always about the richest. Are the owners of the local yard, the car shop, the clothing store or the kiosk the richest in our society? Or are the creators and value creators who need us politicians on the team now more than ever? Is it good district policy to move earned capital away from the areas of the country where the value creation takes place, and into an office in Oslo, where to decide what to do? I don't mean it. I think good district policy is about leaving money where they serve, so that greater values can be created. We have to create more, not more treasure. It is almost paradoxical that we have a left-hand side of Norwegian policy that will further strengthen all compensation schemes, but only to ensure that the company survives long enough to possibly pay their increased taxes. I have often asked who it is in Norwegian business the left side talks to when they propose to increase taxes targeted at Norwegian ownership, but the answer is missing. Perhaps this debate could be a good time to get an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2454	The draft budget of the Progress Party will take the country in a new and better direction. It's a budget that if it had got a majority, would have moved power and authority away from us politicians and down to people most. This would have meant that Norwegian taxpayers could have retained significantly more of their own income and wealth and disposed of it for what is important to them and their families. It is a budget that guarantees the daily lives of most people: the security of the job, including tomorrow and next year, the security of getting help when you need it, that you must not stand in line because the majority in this Chamber believe that in practice the public should have a monopoly on dealing with people, the security of having a police present at the time of crime, and a defence that is clear and competent, the security of parents to continue to send their child in the nursery they themselves want, regardless of whether it is public or private. Our draft budget builds the whole country, from Agder to Finnmark, road, rail, coast and broadband. This would have led to more searching on Norwegian pedestal, to the joy of the welfare of today’s and future residents of Norway. We don't get all our primary policies when we vote later today, so the Storting isn't compounded. But in the budgetary agreement with the government parties, we are pulling policy firmly to the right. When charges are reduced by over 7 billion next year. kr, it means something to most people. Fees are paid by everyone, regardless of whether you are King Solomon or Jørgen hatmaker. We're not in this room that will notice this most, that's what they'll do at the bottom of the table. With this grip, the total amount of fees will have fallen since 2013. When the Senterparte last ruled the country, the fees increased by almost 5 billion. kr. It means who's got his hand on the wheel. In this case, as in many others, we should be happy that it's not the Center Party. In the Progress Party, we believe that many travel to Sweden to trade snuff, shower, soup and alcohol. In the Center Party, people are believed to travel to Sweden to shop broken bread, caviar and salami. Some people probably do, but in the debate on border trade it must be good to say that it seems like a limitless naive to believe that there is a big deal in the Swedish trade. Whoever you ask, whether it's trade, whether it's the food industry, whether it's the LO, the Work or the NHO, all point to the same thing: the fees on baits are what matters the most. Yesterday the big chains confirmed that the tax cuts will benefit Norwegian consumers, crown for crown. This is good news for the manufacturers of the goods. This is good news for trade in goods. And that's good news for us as consumers. Three, seven billion. kr on lower border trade fees is a very good start, but far from enough to stop the Swedish trade. Before that happens, this has to be repeated every year for the next four years as well. Then it starts to monge, and then our charges are harmonised with the Swedish ones. Our goal is to get there. We should like to see the inclusion in this budget agreement look different. In our alternative budget, there are a number of real political priorities that lead to when someone gets more, others get less. We should have liked to have seen cuts in one-off carpentry, NRK, media support, Cultural Council, Opera, County State, agricultural agreements, Langskip, Directorates, departments, councils, supervision and agencies. Cut in quota refugees and aid could potentially have released billions of dollars that we could have spent on accurate action. Unfortunately, the government parties were very little interested in talking about this. The consequence of this was finally the concussion of the concoction with oil billions. It was not our primary wish, but it was the only thing that was possible to offer from the government parties. It is far from a perfect budget adopted here today, but it is a budget that can mean something to many individuals around the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2473	On Friday I got a real lump in my throat when I saw the Day Revy. A lady from my home municipality, Eli-Anne Zahl, loves the job as a cleaner at the airport at the Gardermoen, but just after the interview she was told that she had lost her job, and her husband had done that right before. It's serious now. There are not so many who laugh and say: Yes, yes, it is good with a little corona break – as some did when Norway shut down in the spring. Then we could go out to the sun and spring and sit out. Now in December it's getting colder and darker, and the strict restrictions on how many we can meet make many older people feel lonely, and many lose their jobs. Now there aren't so many people smiling anymore. For all those who have lost their jobs in aviation, it is a poor consolation that air traffic should rise to 2025. Unemployment always hits those who have the least, most of all, and it's going to take a long time before it gets into the area where I live. Someone will probably get the job back when the vaccines come and we can go to the café and travel again, but for all those who have been available and licensed in parts of 2020, the summer of 2021 can be quite tough. While all those who have a job receive holiday pay as usual, those who are on leave or on leave do not receive holiday pay for the time they have spent outside the labour market. In general, it represents NOK 12000 on average per person who has been out of work in parts of 2020. And then Trond Helleland can say here on the Grottinget pulpit that we should smile more. But the kids of those who have been without a job in 2020 may not get on vacation next summer. There's nothing to smile about. It's actually to laugh at. So it is not money that can be given priority in this budget. There are a few questions that remain after the budget agreement yesterday that I would like the Right to answer. One is about an area that is important to me in the aid policy, and it is about women's right to decide over their own bodies, the right to prevention and abortion. There is hardly any more effective form of assistance than the one that can make women self-employed, which allows them to participate in professional life, and that they can decide for themselves how many kids they want. But in a late night hour, although the government says it will in the long run increase the contribution to prevention and abortion, this is the area you cut to – 86 million. kr – of all things. Not because the aid budget as such is being reduced – no, it has to be as high, but it is thus the contribution to prevention and abortion. I believe that the Right must answer as to why they put their priorities that way. I think it's a crazy priority. So to the other question I have to ask the Right clarify: Now there is a full mouthpiece outside, in the studio in the VG, going to the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party and the way in which they interpret the provisions that they should prioritize Christian asylum seekers. The Christian People's Party Council Ulstein told me here in the Questionnaire yesterday that there was no difference. We heard the same thing at New Year's Eve 18 yesterday – it was the same thing. The Progress Party's Siv Jensen and Sylvi Listhaug say that no, the Christian People's Party is wrong, they have made major changes. Then almost right, if they don't just want to let these other parties argue – we'll let the other ones argue, and then we can kind of appear to be calm behind – come up here and clear up for the Storting today. A budget settlement has been made a late night. Two of the lots that have signed the agreement are totally in disagreement with what it involves. The question is quite specific: are there to be new governance signals in asylum policy in the light of the provisions of the agreement concluded between the government parties and the Progress Party? We almost have to get an answer to that in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2488	Unlike the previous speakers, I think I should rather talk about the state budget – not about asylum policy. A typical Norwegian budget debate is often about spending more money for new purposes. The competition between the opposition parties involves spending more money than the others. So fast it's been this year that the parties haven't even had time to write the new numbers into their alternate budgets. We have also made a traditional distinction in the debate today. It is based on the attitude of the bourgeois majority and on the attitude of the opposition towards the welfare society. I'm thinking about the attitude of the private sector, private enterprise, individual enterprise, and the awareness that society's support is actually not the municipalities, but the people, the families, the businesses. When government reduces taxes and taxes, civil society is strengthened. But we also see here today, on the left, the ongoing lack of confidence that ordinary families, individuals and businesses make reasonable choices, and understanding that profitable jobs are not something we can buy, but that those who have new ideas offer new products or services that others want in a market. These start-ups create jobs – either by increasing productivity in known industries or by establishing completely new ones. These include risk capital, new and more efficient working methods, new patents, new products, marketing and the market. It was necessary to adopt the major stimulation packages to recover healthy businesses that were profitable before the Corona, and to ensure that these were not lost. However, transfers cannot over time replace the cancellation of customers and the market. And it's going to be a constant pressure also against granting authorities to maintain the transfers because you're friends with them. What Norway does not need on the other side of the pandemic is an oversized public sector or a semi-public business. I noticed that the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, said that the municipalities should be used as counter-cyclical measures. It was a very interesting statement. The idea behind such counter-cyclical measures is that they are being built down and completely removed when the economic cycle reoccurs. Is it true, then, that the Centre Party will reduce the local government sector to previous levels when the rise occurs? I have no faith in that. Other speakers have pointed out that the Workers’ Party leader in the NRK this morning would not explain whether the Workers’ Party will retain the tax reliefs introduced to prevent trade leakage in border crossings. What is certain, on the other hand, is that the Workers' Party is going to continue where they left off in 2013, spending more and more of other people's money if they get into government position. What should be the main concern of business and taxpayers is precisely this government position. If the government looks close to what the measurements suggest, it will be with an Workers' Party that will end up as a minority in a new majority. In that case, the Government will consist of a majority which will terminate the EEA Agreement. And until that can happen, they'll counteract it and put areas out of control by applying the right of reservation. It is a question of whether the Workers' Party has the power to fight through in the areas that matter most to the business community and therefore to the workplace. Will they choose the Oslo model, where we have a city council that has largely left traffic regulation to the Green Party and the school to SV? Will the Workers' Party stand up against the SV and the Centre Party to prevent them from destroying the EEA Agreement? I doubt it, because the Workers' Party has already shown quacking unity in the opposition in the matter of standing strongly on the EEA Agreement. We know that belonging to the internal market requires acceptance of the four freedoms. There's no middle ground there – no one getting an exception from it. That means that if you cheat on the EEA Agreement, we're also out of the internal market. It might not be those who are most concerned about business, who want us on such a gale. 70 pst. Norwegian exports are made to the EEA territory. Including oil and gas about 80 pst. of all Norwegian exports to the EEA region. It is understood what values are involved, the significant number of jobs and therefore the financing of the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2513	This year's government budget has been particularly demanding. The reason is, as everyone knows, that there are huge expenses, there are huge crisis packages – we're going to be struggling for a long time. It is in those times that we should save where we can, but it is a weakness of this house that there is a lack of ability and willingness to give priority. The Progress Party has put forward proposals for savings in a number of areas mentioned by previous speakers, but there is no willingness to give priority. Individuals and businesses have sacrificed and lost everything. Almost no one has been shielded in the current crisis, except for asylum seekers and refugees, who have not been wanted to touch. Asylum seekers have had free access across borders throughout, and it has not been possible for government parties to reduce the number of quota refugees in the midst of a crisis. As you know, accepting quota refugees is very costly. The reason why the Progress Party wants to reduce the number of quota refugees is not that we don't want to help, but it's actually that bringing quota refugees to what's the world's most expensive country to live in is the most expensive and the worst way to help. If we have a sum of money that we want to help people with, we are guaranteed to reach out to help as little as possible by bringing those people here. We also know that today's policy helps to lure people into a dangerous journey, which too many end up in suffering and death. Many end up in cruel camps. We've seen other parts of the world, for example. Australia, solved the problem of boat migrants drowned in hopes of reaching asylum. By saying no to boat migrants who came to seek asylum, it was possible to reduce the number of drownings to zero overnight. We're actually in a situation where we can choose. We can choose to help a lot more of those who need it, much more, while saving money in a crisis in Norway – while at the same time preventing people from dying on a dangerous journey. At the same time, we could have avoided money disappearing and the asylum industry being controlled by cynical traffickers and criminal gangs. But there's no willingness to choose the solutions that we know could have worked. Today, the Progress Party is presenting a budget involving zero quota refugees, but it is going to be downgraded. It is not the budget of the Progress Party that is going to be adopted today, but we have helped to improve it – we have moved it in the right direction. We are tightening up the maintenance requirement for family immigration. Now you can no longer use the introduction benefit as a basis for the maintenance requirement. It will mean something – it will mean more real livelihood for those who are coming. We are also increasing the requirement for living from three to five years, which means that we will have more opportunity to expose fraud, we will have more opportunity to send people back home to be with and build up the home country when it's safe, and it will also help to reject asylum seekers for worse reasons. Asylum seekers with worse reasons will choose other countries if they know that they will be returned when they are safe. We have also had the advantage – when we do not now have a reduction in the number of quota refugees – of prioritizing the collection of Christian minorities. I think it's very strange that it seems to be for the Christian People's Party it's most difficult to agree to prioritize Christian refugees. The debate after the conciliation seems to me to have been very special. A fear has been raised that if we choose to bring Christian refugees to Norway, we can help create illusions about connections between the West and Christians. I find it strange that there should be some problem if there should be links between the West and Christian refugees, but I think we should appreciate the good work of bringing Christian refugees to Norway. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2532	Then you're out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2538	I hate Korona, there was a 13-year-old girl who wrote. It's not hard to join it. 2020 has been a demanding year for very many. Unfortunately, we have experienced that 350 people have lost their lives because of the Korona until now. There are almost 200,000 people who are unemployed or on leave. Because of the corona, we've had to change our habits and the way we act. We're flying less. We'll take smaller trains. We're using the bus less. We're going to drive smaller taxis. There are fewer overnight stays or courses at the hotels, fewer at the restaurants, etc., etc. There are just a lot of people in a difficult situation, and a lot of companies in a difficult situation. I hate Korona. I just want to hug Grandma – this is what the 13-year-old wrote on. I think there's a lot of people who want to recognize themselves in it as well. It's been a long time since we've hugged people -- the great thing about meeting each other and hugging each other. We read about more situations that we see are demanding and touching: people who are lonely. Young people who experience that the rush time has been cancelled. Student life will be completely different. There are fewer activities for young people. Children exposed to violence may have to spend more time with a violent person. People who had it hard before may have gotten worse. This is the back cover of the budget we have created, which is being adopted today. Our goal is to take Norway out of the crisis. We're going to be able to include more people, we're going to be able to take care of the vulnerable, and we're going to create more businesses and more jobs. That is why we are raising the number of action places in this budget by 7 000 to help those who have fallen out of work. We get more places to study, so that many of those who have been rejected before, or who may now have lost their job – or not have a job – can continue to study and build skills. We have extended the leavement mechanism to 52 weeks by June 2021, so that those with sustainable businesses, who will recover when the crisis is over, will be able to regain their skills and the important workers. When I hear the debate, I would also like to remind you that we have ensured important social arrangements, such as: increasing the level of compensation for those who are unemployed or on leave. We have improved the arrangements for sick pay, and we have provided for several days of care. It is a budget focused on helping vulnerable groups. For example, there is an older agreement of 400 million. In order to ensure measures against solitude, to create more activities where possible, to facilitate visits, to community measures around meals – or for vulnerable young people to carry out more activities, to ensure that there is a chance of being at school, and to allow those who have lost their progress to take up some of it. We have all seen that there is also concern about mental health, and that is why there is a strong upswing in the child-young people's escalation plan in this budget. It is said that the Chinese sign of crisis means both crisis and opportunity. I'm a little bit unsure if that's true, but it's at least a good picture. In the middle of the crisis, the budget is adapted to compensation schemes, with measures for those enterprises that, for different reasons, cannot accept the same number of restaurant guests and hotel accommodation or which have other challenges. But there are also measures to create new businesses. The challenges we had before the Corona came, are there today too. Maybe they're even reinforced. That's why it's also a long-term perspective to use the crisis to build the society we're going to have in the future. Therefore, Longships, carbon capture and storage are an important measure that is also located there. That's why all the efforts to create new businesses are so important. We are going to build the sustainable welfare society that ensures our children a good life in the future. That is why we are strengthening our families. We've increased the child's pension by $8,200 in the last two years. The leisure card to safeguard children and young people is continued and strengthened — and not least the cooperation strategy for children in low-income families. It is a budget that promises the international perspective. Today, the news came that the United Nations fears that one billion people could go into poverty because of corona. There's a long decline that's now reversed with a decline. That's why I'm proud. I'm proud to give you 1 pst. assistance. We're still going to fight for the world's poorest. At that time, I am also proud that we are going to receive 3,000 quota refugees and stand up for people who are on the run.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2566	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2571	I noticed that the Council of State ended with the government building the sustainable welfare society, and then I think the minister must have forgotten a word, because it should say "down" after "building," because that's what we see. We see that the queues in front of food distributions are growing, the queues in order to give children leisure are growing, the queues in order to get free gifts for families, so that the children can go on birthday, grow. We have 102 000 poor children in Norway today. It's more than ever. We have children in child protection, screaming for more jobs, but there's no money for that, and we have character-based admissions and a commercialization of all welfare services, which divides people. The Christian People's Party is struggling, and several prominent members have signed up – last today or yesterday a former head of state downstairs with us, we have had many who have signed up. Does the Minister see that there is a link between policy and output?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2580	When I have listened to the Labour Party today, it is almost so one should think that it is the government's fault that we have a pandemic in the country. It's like I said in my post, that I join this 13-year-old: I hate corona. It's a terrible situation for many people. Yes, more people have lost their jobs. I am concerned about the families who go Christmas and next year in meeting with uncertainty about the job will pass. That is why this budget is so focused, whether it is to create new jobs to include more or to take care of the vulnerable groups. We have also presented the new aging process, where we, for example, are concerned. do what we can in dialogue with non-governmental organisations to do more to help those who are struggling. I visited the Salvation Army, which distributed food packages, and they told me the same thing: there are more people who need food. We have to be there to help them. But what they also said, which was at least equally important, was that people felt that there was someone who cared when the Salvation Army came. It's a big challenge, and that's why we have to stick together to stop the infection, get less infection in society. That's what enables us to open up and get the job back and secure and secure for these families.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2591	I'm very happy that the Salvation Army stands up when the state doesn't. That's very good, but what we see is a huge reduction in the common welfare systems we have. We see a shift in policy from investing in public welfare through public hospitals, public schools, public kindergartens and public child protection to commercialisation. That means that there are some people who can afford to use the commercialised services, while others don't. It's dividing people. It's not gathering. What we see in government's policy is that there's going to be more poor. Differences are increasing and increasing and have done so in recent years. The measures identified in the Notice of Initiation are not measures that will respond to those developments. My question was: does Ropstad think that there is any connection with the policy that so many people report out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2600	I haven't been involved in the policy that the Christian People's Party should make an amazingly good choice, and that is the most important thing. I've been involved in politics to mean a difference in people's lives in a positive sense. When I hear that description from the Workers' Party, I am completely – yes, I do not know exactly what term I am going to use. I am in favour of a strong welfare state that will be there with a strong social security network for those who fall outside. That is why we have strengthened many of those arrangements. But there's a fundamental difference between me and the Workers' Party in that I'm talking about a welfare society. For the state there is to help the Salvation Army with some extra means that generate an enormous amount of volunteering and volunteering. That it's called that the Salvation Army is doing a job on behalf of the state and the people is a description of reality that I just can't understand. To build a warmer society, we need to strengthen the small communities, we need to strengthen the families, we need to strengthen the communities, and then volunteering is enormously important. That is why I am also proud that we have such a clear commitment to, for example. The Salvation Army and other organizations doing a great job.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2609	Both Robstad and the Prime Minister were in their speeches on the social aspect of the budget. The Robstad even pulled out the bet on the lonely elderly, but dropped elegantly to mention that it was the Advance Party that got into the budget agreement. He also forgot to mention the other non-social measures contained in the government's draft budget. There was nothing left for pensioners, not least pensioners, nor the others, in view of increased purchasing power development, there was a targeted cut into the private kindergartens – otherwise the Christian People's Party often talks warmly about freedom of choice for families – nor did he mention the proposal to make health care more expensive for about one million Norwegians. My question is simply: is Ropstad satisfied that the Progress Party has made this budget more social?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2616	I am very pleased with many of the proposals negotiated by the Progress Party, and then there are others that I am less satisfied with. But it's quite right, as the representative says, there's a lot of things that I was happy to find out about, for example. in the case of measures to combat loneliness among the elderly. There we have a fantastic project – speaking of the previous line as well – under the direction of non-governmental organisations, because we see that in many of these cases the state is not the one that is able to get the best out. There's a lot of creativity and innovation among the volunteers. But when it comes to the prob lems, I have to say that there I think we're taking an important step in bringing together the different roofs, roofs 1 and 2. We had a targeted system that made many chroniclers, some of the most sick, get lower self-esteem, while some of us got higher. Then we found a solution together with the Progress Party where we joined forces and also lowered it further. I think that was a good solution, and I was satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2623	The centre party has been a driver in Stortinget to secure children's health care in the same way as others. In addition to a strong commitment to the BUP and mental health work in the municipalities in the budget for next year, the Centre Party shall give priority to earmarking resources for health monitoring by taking care of them. The National Audit Office’s report on state child protection institutions, which came in the fall, contained strong criticism, and he showed that the needs of the children are not adequately addressed in the selection of child protection institutions. Lack of information on the needs of children prior to admission to an institution could be explained by Bufetat himself, with waiting time for information about the child from mental health services. So when the budget agreement contains cuts to public hospitals, that's why there's cause for concern. My question to the Council of State is: Can he guarantee that children in child-care care in 2021 will not wait for help from child-care and youth psychiatry, and that children in child-care will receive health care in line with other children in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2630	Thank you very much for a very important question. I have noticed that there is also a great commitment in the committee to this issue, and I am very pleased about that. In the next year's budget, I, together with the Minister for Health, have developed a proposal for just health monitoring to better understand the challenges children face in terms of taking care. As the representative describes, and with which I am well acquainted, we are unfortunately in a situation where very many children, especially those who end up in an institution, have major mental health challenges. That's why it's between 25 and 30 million. kr to these proposals, and we are developing that health monitoring. I have great faith that it will improve the situation for them, so that we get a better picture of it, and that it can not least give them a better location and better health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2637	Thanks for the answer. It is very good that there is a project when it comes to health monitoring – we also had a representative proposal on it – and that it is now underway. But that part of my question that the Council of State did not answer, and that is my concern, is the capacity, at least now when it's a cut also in the budget agreement for public hospitals – to public hospitals it's cut, and it's increased to private. My question is, can the Council of State guarantee that children in child protection will not wait for help in childhood and youth psychiatry? For health monitoring does not help if they are not given help. Today, there is a major problem that there are too long waiting times for help in childhood and youth psychiatry. I can show you the Barneombode's report, he's actually quite crushing. If this happens to children in child protection, it's extra bad, because someone has to come first in this queue, I think it's at least these kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2645	I'm not going to be too persuasive, but I have to admit that I see the Minister of Health shaking his head when talking about cuts in public hospitals, so I guess that means no. It could be that it's about the ABE cut, which is protected in the case of hospitals. We were very concerned about that when we discussed the matter. Especially in the situation we are in, with demanding capacity in hospitals, we have been concerned that this budget should both be able to ensure that one gets the help you need, given the corona, and also get back up the activity with respect to them such as the one you need. had not had operations carried out. But to the question, of course, I can't stand here and guarantee that there will be zero waiting time, but we are very concerned about this issue, and I have close dialogue with the Minister of Health about how we can provide better health care. We have a commitment to mental health specifically related to children and young people in the next year's budget, and this is a question that addresses us in particular. Children in child protection shall not have a B-treatment or they shall not be treated in the same way as other children; they shall have the same assistance. This is an area that we've been focusing heavily on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2652	Many families go against Christmas with an even bigger lump in their stomach than usual. Not only are they hit by unsocial cuts over several years, in the spectacle support of children, to mention one example, now many in addition are hit hard by the consequences of the coronary crisis. Then the government has granted $25 million. NOK for various help services in the voluntary direction now towards Christmas. It's fine, honey. But what people need now is not just alms. What people need is income security, financial security to give their kids the Christmas all the other kids get. It's not a warm society, as the Council of State said, when people have to depend on the Salvation Army at Christmas. Then it is extra provocative that the Council of State chooses to allow municipalities to withdraw the child’s rights from social assistance – for those who really need the child’s rights the most. Why shouldn't families who receive social assistance, who are now struggling against Christmas, get the whole child's fear, like other families?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2657	The simple answer to that is that the representative Upper Court and I do not have a majority in the Chamber. Had we had a majority, the proposals had gone through, and it had been like that. But what we have secured is a historical increase in child welfare. For the first time in over 20 years, we increased child-restraint last year, and for next year, we're going to increase child-rescue by $8,200 for the youngest kids. In addition, one has made sure that the increase is protected, so that it also benefits those who benefit from social assistance. It is that social assistance is a temporary benefit, so the average time a person goes on it, is hopefully the lowest possible because one comes over to other schemes – and preferably back to work. I would also say that in what is adopted today, there is also a special safeguard for those with low incomes. Up to 3G, it's 80 pst. compensation for those who go on a day-to-day basis. It's historically loud. It's never been like that -- it wasn't like that in the financial crisis, it wasn't like that in other crises. So I really want to stress that we're doing a lot to set up a safety net for those who need it, and then all of these other volunteer organizations are there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2666	Time's up. Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2673	In these corona times, all should be grateful that the community in Norway is so strong that it is the Community thought that is the basic plan in Norway. I hope there are many of the parties that reconsider their positions and think through: Where would we be if we had got a full impact? Would people have stayed at home if they got sick, if the Left had got a pass to cut the sick pay? Where would Norway have been if the Progress Party had been able to tap into the use of the oil fund in good times? Where would we have been working on crisis packages if the government had been able to make full use of its support for the unorganised world of work? Where would we have been and had people felt health care security if health services had been privatized and reserved for them with the largest wallets? That's because Norway is the country that it is, that we've managed to meet the pandemic the way we have. But it's a skinny comfort to all those who struggle, that we've come through this better than many other countries. The Korona crisis is a magnifying glass of society. Differences between people are increasing. Those who are having a hard time are getting worse. For this reason, it has never been more important to have policies that are actively redistributors. But that's unfortunately the opposite that happens. For what is the summation after eight years with Erna Solberg? Well, it's a targeted policy to increase the differences between people. There have been petty cuts to those who have the least in society. School students have lost their school fruit. These dements have lost the cultural offer. The disabled have removed the children's supplement. Those with fire damage have been removed from rehabilitation. It has been cut in support of children with glasses and for regulation, and the unemployed have lost their holiday money. This list of non-social cuts could be much longer. It is so fundamentally unfair that you hardly believe what you hear. Who really came up with that? It's at least unsocial and unfair. Worst of all, there is no lack of money. At the same time as Erna Solberg, Right, the Progress Party and the Left have brought small cuts, they have given billions in tax cuts to the richest of the country. For this government, tax cut is the answer, regardless of the question. Cut the property tax, was the first thing we heard from the Right and Advance Party when the Korona epidemic came to Norway. We got to see it again last week when the outdoors prayed on their knees because they fear bankruptcy. Then the answer from Nikolai Astrup was that you should remove the property tax. If Olav Thon gets tax relief, it'll do little good for the bartender, the waitress and all the 17,000 workers in the nightlife business in Oslo. Right pursues a systematic policy to increase the differences between people. There is a paradox that it is hardly possible to believe that by 2020 we have both a record in the number of poor children and a record in the number of millionaires. It says something about how we distribute resources in Norway. That's why there's a need for a new course and a new majority, for a government that reduces the differences between people, that makes sure to get a job, that creates security in the job, and that cuts emissions at a completely different rate than what we see today. The Labour Party has today presented two alternative state budgets, one in dollars and cents, showing how we invest in the community and well-being, and one climate budget, which shows how Norway will aim to halve our emissions by 2030. For the Workers' Party, this budget is equally important, or in many ways, it is even more important, because an error priority in crowns and ears can be a change of year after, but an error priority in the emissions budgets has been made forever. If the Workers' Party comes into government, the government will present its own climate budget. In spring, the head of the Right Programme Committee and the District Minister said that the lesson we had to learn from the Korona was that we had to take less account of the climate and the environment. She thought that talking about the green shift was from another time. She said that in Norway we have the luxury that we can say no to tens of thousands of jobs. I think that when we have record high unemployment, it would be interesting to know what tens of thousands of jobs right in the government have said no. When challenged, it is as usual empty from the Chair of the Right Programme Committee and the Minister of the District. In the Labour Party, we think the opposite. We believe that we need to cut emissions and create jobs at the same time. There's no contradiction. On the contrary, it's a prerequisite for both. Then a completely different policy pressure is needed. We want a hydrogen policy that really sets, and that's not a factsheet that hydrogen is fine. We need an industrial policy with new instruments that create jobs across the country. What is the government's climate policy is still a little unclear. We don't know what Norway's national target is. We don't know what kind of measures to take, because after eight years it's only now, after the last budget has been presented, that climate change communication comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2692	This is the eighth state budget of these four parties, and the seven in the past have laid a good foundation for which we can be very pleased today. Lower taxes provide more investment and basis for new jobs. A doubling of nutrient research will lead to the development of tomorrow's products while we talk. Simplification of red tape and forms makes it easier to start and run a business. Increased transport investment to an historically high level has created activity and secures jobs in times of crisis. All these things are measures that need to be taken before the crisis in order to have an impact in the crisis. It is the 2019 tax rate that determines the tax payable in 2020. Therefore, it was important that it was put down before the crisis. Research takes time, so this must have started before. The introduction of new procedures and forms takes time, so it was better to start before. Getting transport investments from paper ideas to shovels takes time, so it is important that they had started before the crisis. Nevertheless, emergency measures are necessary and important. There is a broad consensus also in this room, though there is some disagreement about the arrangement of individual measures. One of the more curious corona crisis package measures is contained in the proposal of the Centre Party. As a crisis response, they propose an action aimed at the non-crisis industry, namely the reduction of food tax. It would probably be better to focus crisis measures on industries in crisis, not on industries without crisis. Maybe some people think that business has a not too long time perspective on what they do or is too short-sighted. That's wrong. Where I come from, many businesses have started and run by families for generations. Each generation has built a little, so the fisherman has become a farmer, the workshop has become a supplier industry and the guest house has become a hotel. Now they're looking at their challenges and thinking that now it's a crisis, what can we do in the short term? But at the same time they ask themselves, as always, how are the framework conditions for 2022 and forward? They briefly ask themselves what they're going to live on. And maybe they're looking back a little bit, for example. to the last year. If they are a hotel or a tourism business, they see that proposals have been made for tourist taxes and restrictions on tourism. The industry is down today, and it will take time to build it up. Can they trust that a red-green majority will let them do so, or will tax increases and regulations come as soon as the crisis is over? Are they a supplier of oil and gas, e.g. a family company: Will they meet good framework conditions, or will they meet a resolution plan for their customers, as more than one party wants? Do you drive a farm: Do you want a stable growth regime, or will you get an even greater increase in special tax and regulation, which makes today's operation impossible and makes Norwegian salmon priced out of the market? It may seem that parts of the Storting have used the last few years before the crisis to hunt for industries we're not going to live on. If we take away what the parties themselves have called the crisis package, that is, measures that are due to the crisis and are to be removed afterwards, it becomes clear that the basic proposals of the Workers' Party as usual are the same as in previous years. Businesses, and their owners in particular, have to pay more. Once again, almost three times as much in increased gross tax for Norwegian business owners, not non-residents, as is to be returned in the form of non-crisis packages business-oriented measures. It is the long-term policy – an expectation that business will be tapped, and a hope that they will create more jobs with less money. It's like removing the oasis in the desert and hoping that it'll be easier to find water. This is also the picture from the Center Party, that you should remove what is categorized as crisis measures. Now it's about creating confidence in the future, making sure companies believe and will hire people, making sure that banks believe, so that they give loans, make sure the creditors believe, so that they don't fail too early. The budget will then have to point to a future that provides good and secure framework conditions for business in the long term. Otherwise, this becomes like Mao's thousand flowering flowers: a short spring and a long, hard winter. The choice here today is really between a shocking price and an alternative with higher taxes, more regulation and greater political risk to business and jobs, in short between getting out of the crisis and going deeper into the crisis after the crisis. We have also seen today that the Labour Party is obviously not sure what to do with border trade and border trade charges, for which there has been a good result in the budget. I see from the list of speakers that one of those who comes later has said about this, and is from the Workers' Party, so I might ask if it is Jonas Gahr Støre's confusion this morning that we're going to start, or if it's Stein Erik Lauvås' clear contributions from this summer, to cut the fees and create jobs – I couldn't have written it better myself – that applies today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2713	It's been talked about that we have to go out and talk to people, and I very much agree with that. Government council Ropstad talks about hating Korona – I very much agree with that too. But I rather want to take the opposite of hate, namely love: out and meet people and out and talk to people around the country. It's some of what I think is the very best thing to do by being a magnificent representative. Then it's a little special to meet people who work at the tax-free at the Gardermo, who feel that a party that says they're busy taking care of and securing the employees is the same as taking from people some of the tax-free allowance, making sure that sales go down, that sales go down, and that people don't have the job they should have. Or as one of the employees said to me, it's like when I wake up every morning, I open my eyes and hope that it goes over, that it's wrong, all of it. And I get that very well. So it's like, when you're going to talk to people, you also have to listen to what people say. Here I believe that Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum should take a walk and talk to the county rapporteur in Telemark, because yesterday the Center Party, together with the Workers' Party and SV, who are in position there, decided to lay down the secondary school in Seljord, and it is in the thickest, fantastic, glorious Telemark – in the middle of the districts. So there's a school that the Center Party is laying down, just like the red-green parts also put down schools a lot when they were in government. So there's obviously a long way between life and learning. There was a proposal for a government budget on transportation that was good in some areas, but it was a full brake from the government on what is going on on road construction. There was a bit of a stop in the matter of further betting. There's something the Progress Party is concerned about. It is clear that when the Advance Party put in government, there was full gas, there was full stall speed to bet on building more road. But after Hareide became the State Council and the Advance Party was out of government, there was a full emergency brake, and there was also a full emergency brake, or an increase, in terms of car charges. That is why I am very pleased that the Progress Party, with what we have now come up with with the government, is making sure that fees increases are stopped and are back to reduce the fees, and that it will be over 1.6 billion. extra kr for transportation. It means something to people, and people will notice it. That means there's going to be half a billion dollars to asphalt. That means it has to smell really asphalt around the country, all over the country. The progress party would like to see it even more, and have suggested even more, but we are on a very good path. That means that we can send people out to work, the excavators can still dig around, you can build roads and let cows and couriers roam around everywhere – I guess that's what a former party trap said in his speech at a national meeting. It's about the roads, it's going to be built in buckets and buckets, and people are going out to do the job. We think that's great. I'm glad we get something on the FOT routes, it's Stokmarknes-Bodø-Tromsø, it's Florø-Oslo, it's Florø-Bergen and Ørsta/Volda-Oslo. It is important for business and for people living in the districts. As far as Torp is concerned, the Progress Party has agreed that we should allocate 35 million. kr for the first quarter, and the government has agreed that we will come back and take a closer look at aviation in January. That's good. The funny thing is, the Central Party with 30 billion dollars. Extra can be found at 25 million kroner. kr for the whole next year. That's all they could find for Torp. So we got 35 million. NOK for the first quarter, and I assume that it will probably have to come more in January when we are going to get back to aviation. Then there will be a rescue car to Rennfast in Rogaland. It's great – an important case for many people who have been concerned about safety when driving in tunnels. And there are a number of other important road projects for which the Progress Party has now received a majority. There are even some bridges that you're a little bit uncertain about where really is in the country, but that might be the case. But this is going to be good. There will be ways, and there will be bridges, and there will be things that will be very good. Then I want to get a little bit into the fast lane at the end, too, because tomorrow we'll discuss the quick route further in this room. Some people think that the fast route goes on air and love, and that employees can work for air and love, while most of us know that it actually takes money to get it done. I am therefore pleased that we have also received money to ensure that there are five boats between Bergen and Kirkenes. But it has to be money, and the Workers' Party and the Center Party don't have a penny for it, they want someone to drive on air and love.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2728	We are in a difficult time, and it has undoubtedly marked the budgetary negotiations. It's been a special year. A number of negotiations here in the United Kingdom have been of great importance to people and businesses this year. Action packages have been put in place and have been of great help through the ongoing coronary apathy. Negotiations between the government parties and the Progress Party have been constructive, and they show that we are capable of finding together the great grips needed to equip Norway for the future. For the Left, it has been important to reach an agreement that takes us through the crisis, while at the same time holding on to the main efforts of the draft budget in October. With this budget agreement, we continue to bet on the school, we continue to cut our emissions, and we continue to help business through the corona pandemic. Knowledge gives freedom. Education ensures that everyone can live a good life and have a job to go to. Therefore, the Left is very pleased that the budgetary unit is continuing the solid commitment to the Education Plan, from kindergarten to kindergarten, secondary school, secondary school, post-secondary school and higher education. As Minister of Knowledge, I would also like to highlight our agreement with the Progress Party on investing in top-ranking sports and professional equipment and a solid strengthening of the economy of private kindergartens. Through the negotiations, we have come to a good starting point to look at the pension scheme for private kindergartens together with the actors involved. For the Left, it is essential that we resolve the climate and nature crisis, and fortunately, we are on the right track with this government. Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions were at the lowest level in 2019 since 1993. The State budget for 2021 contains powerful measures that continue to cut emissions. We're getting speed on the CO 2 capture and storage project, we're strengthening our collective offer, and we're continuing the electric car benefits. By 2020, we are most likely to achieve Norway's climate targets for the first time in history. Our policy shows that it is possible to cut emissions while equipping the business for green conversion. We're going to keep transforming society and cutting emissions, but not cutting the activity. We're going to make it easier for business to change with a black bottom line, not a red one. We need to create new green jobs across the country. We take seriously the current business situation, with a number of measures and arrangements. There are probably many, both people and business, who will appreciate that we are now lowering charges in a border-trade package. Norway has all the prerequisites for getting stronger through the crisis we are now experiencing, and to continue to be a leading country in resolving the climate crisis while creating a better society for all, continuing the Education promise and giving people more power over their own everyday lives. At the same time, we don't have the total overview of what the pandemic will bring in 2021. We've soon been through a year where we've become familiar with one and two meters, antibac and mouthbands. Many of us can handle this perfectly, but there are also a lot of people who know about solitude, fear, vulnerability, and not least the distance that a pandemic creates. For this reason, some minor things in the budget also mean something extra for young people, such as that we now have more leisure card attempts, that it doubles in 2021, that we give priority to a number of job measures that will give more access to the labour market, and that we strengthen voluntary organisations that see people like nobody else. Through the negotiations, we have agreed on a number of small and large issues. One of the things that doesn't make the biggest headlines, but I'm very happy about, and that the Progress Party and the Left have been fighting together for many years, is to secure animal police in all the country's police districts. It means something extra to liberal animal friends. Another matter left-wing people have fought for over a very long time, is the realization of the City Tunnel, which with this budget finally comes a step further. It is an important project for the West and maritime industry. I am also very pleased that the aid effort is maintained with this State budget, and that the target of 3 000 quota refugees is fixed for 2021. We have now had a historically high level of quota refugees over several years. I believe that this is a good device for the Norwegian refugee and asylum policy, and I am very proud that we will continue to do so in 2021. With agreement on the state budget for 2021, we have once again agreed on a course for the country that will give more freedom to people and greater opportunities for business to grow and transform into more environmentally friendly value creation. We in the Left are pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2759	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2764	I want to challenge the Minister of Knowledge first and foremost – not the Left Leader. Last night, Elin Måge, Norwegian teacher from Bærum, wrote on her Facebook page that after New Year's she left the teaching profession after 15 years. She writes that she loves her job, but she cannot continue because she does not feel safe at work because of poor infection protection, that the teachers are not recognised for the job they do, and have a huge and growing amount of work. The message from Elin is not a single case. The enormous shipper's roof from this spring has been replaced by an endless work pressure for teachers all over the country. I mean the only medicine against this is more money, more people and better infection protection. What teachers and students want now before Christmas are more people, enough resources and clearer signals from their council. You could say that what teachers want – ‘All I want for Christmas’ – is clearer signals and a state council that shows the way. Can the Council of State calm Elin and other worn - out teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2771	What I can say is that I have a very deep understanding of the experience that Elin and certainly a lot of other teachers have had. I think there are experienced teachers, who have been in school for years, who now experience that they have had to carry out more school development in a few months than they have done in their entire teaching career. I think it's fresh teachers who feel they've been left to themselves. I think there are other employees in school and kindergarten who have to work long days, and who feel unsafe in their own workplace because they are relatively unprotected in meeting children and young people. They're doing an incredibly important job, and we're doing what we can to ensure good framework conditions. We've transferred billions to the municipalities and county councils. I find it a challenge that the country's rapporteurs and advisers do not ensure that this money comes out to kindergartens and schools. When the large majority of principals say they haven't had an increased room for action, it's a problem. Then we have not been able to get the money out. It is very important that priority should now be given to actually deploying temporary workers, providing the resources needed, so that teachers such as Elin are not worn out — and not least that children and young people receive the services they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2779	I find it an even greater challenge that the Council of State, sitting on the money bag, shifts responsibility to the rapporteurs – not doing its job and giving the necessary money – and is more concerned with arguing about the bill. We know that the bill is not yet settled for 2020. It hasn't come yet. It is too late for the job to be done in the municipalities. I would also like to ask the Minister of Knowledge a question about the failure of the government in the financing system for private kindergartens. I have to say I'm glad it wasn't the retirement cut that the government had proposed. It was a bad solution. The Labour Party is promoting our solution today, but I am now very excited about what is the government's solution after the agreement with the Advance Party. Can she today give any answers on the road further? Are we back at the start of the funding system? Is it going to be a thorough review, or is it just a retirement? How fast will the sample now to be cut down, and can it be expected that employees too will be heard – and not just PBL and KS?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2786	We have granted over 30 billion so far in this crisis. extra kr to Kommune-Norway. We have brought new funds into ever-new packages. We've said that for the next, first, six months it'll be 7.7 billion. extra kr to Kommune-Norway. There's been money coming from the state. The challenge is that they have not come out to the country’s schools and kindergartens. The challenge is also that municipalities have had very different challenges. While some people report that they have not had increased expenditure, others have had large increases in expenditure. It is important that those closest to the challenges are, in fact, those who find the practical solutions to the challenges. We had a broad meeting this morning, including the following: to look at how we can use both teacher students and pensioners as temporary workers in both school and kindergarten to hopefully remedy something. I record that the representative from the Workers' Party is criticising the cut in retirement without even correcting it in their alternative budget. That's interesting. Now we're going to look at how we can design a good funding system for the future private kindergartens that are both sustainable and secure for us good kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2793	I must say that the Council of State has the gift of rudeness when she stands and boasts of the appropriations for the private kindergartens, which the government itself proposed to cut sharply. It is rare that I have experienced so many e-mails with worried messages from employees in kindergartens, managers in kindergartens, owners of kindergartens and families around Norway who are simply afraid that the whole offer to their children will disappear. I also have to say something about the feedback that is coming. Prestelva Kindergarten feels unfairly treated and says: Is there an attempt to remove certain private kindergartens now? Or what about PBL, which says this is bad political craftsmanship, and that the result of the government's proposed cut could be poorer quality and bankruptcy? Will the government now secure the private kindergartens instead of trying to lay them down?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2802	The civil parties have been united over several years to ensure good funding for private kindergartens. Where we've seen that the red-green parties have had a general cut for private kindergartens, we've always avoided it. A few years ago, an investigation was carried out into the financing system for private kindergartens, which showed that most parameters met quite well, but that they were overcompensated for retirement. There was also a proposal to consult on the adjustment of that pension effort, and that is what we carried out in our proposal for a government budget. I still believe that there was a proper proposal considering the actual pension costs in the private kindergartens, because that is how private kindergartens have received more money than they have actually had in pension expenditure. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that the money that is now granted through the agreement we have entered into with the Progress Party will be very useful, and I am absolutely sure that the private kindergartens will manage this in a very good way and ensure that it benefits the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2809	I'm a little confused that you're bragging about giving more, but you think it's right to give less. It's hard to understand. But then I also have to say that I am very happy that there is now a new party leader in the left. The Progress Party has been fighting for years to further tighten up immigration policy, and not least to increase the number of years required for permanent residence in Norway, from three to five years. The maintenance requirement has also been a fight. Now we got a proper throughput to increase the amount you have to earn, but now we've been tightened up further, so that the introduction benefit cannot be used as a basis. Does this mean a new course in the Left's policy, where we have finally got a leader who is more positively prepared to make cuts in immigration policy? And is there anything we can enjoy going to be the situation even further?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2816	For very many years, the Left has had some clear priorities in immigration policy, and it has actually been for various reasons. Firstly, we have also thought that there have been some tightenings that have been both correct and necessary, especially during a period when we had very strong inflow. It has also been because we see that in a lot of things we have a large majority in this room against us, and that we have therefore had to give priority to our struggles with care. What we have done then is that we have had a very clear priority of children, especially of long-term and vulnerable children, and we have also had a very clear priority of refugees with protection needs. Therefore, in recent years our priority has been that if there have been restrictions on asylum and immigration, we have also ensured that Norway takes part in international responsibility by accepting quota refugees. I am very pleased that we have then raised the level of quota refugees from around 1,000, until we have now reached a level of around 3,000, and I hope that we also manage to have an effective withdrawal next year that will allow us to take back what we have received in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2823	In the budgetary unity between the government parties and the Progress Party, there will be, among other things: cut to digital education, cut to lost study progress and cut to improve teaching and research facilities. At the same time, students and students struggle to complete, teachers and kindergarten staff are exhausted after months of coronary intervention, and in the municipalities and counties they sit in these days and strive to get school budgets to jump because the government does not provide enough money. The quality of school doesn't get better just by talking about it, we have to make sure the money gets there. The government says that the pandemic creates a distance, but the Central Party feels that the government does too. When the agreement between the government and the Advance Party prioritises cheaper alcohol and tobacco, funded among others. by cuts in the Ministry of Knowledge and zero more to the municipalities, can the Council of State see that teachers and students feel neglected and disappointed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2830	I have not actually calculated this together, but I am quite sure that in sum we are left with more money for both kindergartens and schools through this budget than what we did before we started the negotiations with the Progress Party. And then there are some small adjustments, including: on digital bets, which means that we get a less addition than the government originally put up with. We added a strong increase in the funding for digital resources in municipalities both in the revised national budget and in our proposal for the 2021 state budget. Now that investment has fallen slightly, but there is still a significant investment, which means that municipalities across the country now have a greater opportunity to both purchase equipment, purchase software and contribute to the lifting of the competence of their employees. It's a bet that I'm very proud of and very pleased with. There is no doubt that this is a budget that bears the mark that our main effort to take Norway through the crisis is a commitment to education. There are a historically high number of study places. There has never been such a strong commitment in high schools and colleges. I'm very proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2837	Once again, a Left leader takes on the ideological skyscrapers and proposes a forced free school choice in all states. A free choice of school is only a free choice for those students who have the very best grades and the best starting point. The last time a left-wing leader proposed this, there was a massive resistance from students, teachers and county councils, and rather than then rejecting this proposal, the Council of State is reversing. This is anti- student and district government policy. In a state such as Trendelag, which the Council of State should know quite well, will, for example, the scheme incurs significant costs because it is necessary to set up additional classes and build schools in Trondheim. Such a upheaval is not covered in the budgets of Trondelag County. What does the Council of State think it will cost, and how does the Council of State think this should be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2848	When the proposal on free choice of schools was put to the hearing, there were a lot of people who objected to the models presented. Now, what we've done is we've said that we're going to go on working on a freer school choice, but we want to work with the county councils and KS to make good criteria for how this is going to be done. There are very many counties around — the vast majority of counties, in fact — that until now have had different versions of free school choice. Many have solved this by having different types of inputs, and also by having different schemes to ensure that some of the students with the greatest challenges go to their primary schools. Now we're going to look at how we can incorporate these criteria into a national system, and also give the states room for action to find good solutions. It's interesting that the representative mentioned Trøndelag, because today there was actually a reading in the address paper from a young girl, I think she was 16 years old, who told about her fight to get away from going to her secondary school in Stjørdal and rather go to a school in Trondheim. She has been subjected to systematic bullying throughout her schooling and had a great need to change the environment. The system we are creating now guarantees fundamental rights for the students, and that's the most important thing for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2857	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2863	The corona pandemic has affected the health, safety, workplaces and economy of people all over the globe. The most important task of the policy in the future will be to contribute to greater security for people in Norway, both those directly affected by the crisis and those who feel insecure about their work and close family members affected. Councillors and municipal politicians now have to budget with considerable uncertainty for the expenditure they have received and which they incur far into 2021. The pandemic affects ordinary people, then the state budget must also give priority to ordinary households. But the government and the Progress Party have their priorities. With the Right and Advance Party in government, the fees have increased by over 6 billion. kr. In 2019, the SSB demonstrated that the charges specifically affect households, and in particular those with low income. It's a nice logic that you have to drink beer and start with snuffs to get tax breaks from the bourgeois majority. The government is well acquainted with Bible words and expressions, and I would like to remind you that after seven fat years, seven leaner. Because that's what the government has to think about when they give priority to those who already have the most, and in their draft budget, a bill and parts of a final settlement for their oil money usage sends to patients in the country. The billion bill is going to go to one million patients. Nordics who experience disease must take the noise of government's fat years. This year, right tops it all by making it more expensive to be sick and cheaper to be rich. The Workers' Party has always proposed a more social solution, with the ceiling on abstinences for illness set at NOK 2460. In the budget agreement, it seems that the Progress Party was the one who got the government's cold heart to beat, and that they are now behind the Workers' Party's original proposal. It is amazing that the budget agreement does not protect the hospital budget, but cuts with so-called ABE cuts. It is also incredible that the budgetary agreement reinforces the fixed crisis by cutting the ALIS mechanism, which ensures the recruitment of badly needed new fixed teams in the middle of a pandemic. This year the government presented an action plan for the fixed medical scheme, but at the very first crossroads they fail. With the Progress Party and the government cut, municipalities will have even greater problems with retaining and recruiting permanent workers. It is the opposite of what patients, the fixed medical system and the municipalities need – a complete failure of a government that has committed itself to saving the fixed medical system. We have been aware for a long time that a new outbreak of infection was likely, especially due to the recent imports of the virus, and the government has put in place strict measures to reduce the virus to Christmas holidays. The first wave in March came on surprisingly. Understandably, it took enough time to stick both arms and legs and get the systems in place. This time we have no excuse for not seeing it coming. Unfortunately, the action packages that have been launched are not strong enough, and we cannot allow the coronary crisis to create new health crises or new employment crises, which are hard to deal with in the community they are facing. In the previous round, we failed the elderly, those who struggle with mental health and intoxication, and vulnerable children and young people. There is no excuse in this round. In Trøndelag, the County of Fylkeshan reports 1 500 new concerns from Child Protection. We need to make sure that the victims are better off. A crisis will always reinforce the differences that are already in society, and it will affect the most vulnerable. Now it must be the turn of ordinary people. That should be reflected by the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2882	In the required times, the Progress Party takes responsibility. We did so in 2014 and 2015, when oil prices fell, we did so later when the migration crisis hit Norway, and we do so when we are in a very special situation this year. And it has been decided that we take responsibility, for workplaces around the coast have been at risk. When someone replaces ‘renew’, ‘simplified’ and ‘improve’, as has always been the case in the speech points of Jan Tore Sanner, with ‘dead’, ‘disadvantage’ and ‘deterioration’ of the conditions for Norwegian seafarers, the Progress Party must take responsibility – simply because cutting into the net pay arrangements in the situation in which Norwegian industry has been in and which Norwegian seafarers have been in with the ship partly lying to land prevents us from getting people back to work. When the yard industry falters, which he has not done since the early 2000s, it is about a whole chain of values linked to the maritime industry being about to end. Then a grip had to be done, and the Progress Party took responsibility. This means that the yard will meet brighter times, because we use the tool to facilitate their liquidity situation, which actually allows Norwegian shipyards to compete for the market's assignments, with a much greater possibility of actually winning new offers. And when we expand the ship's air conditioning system to also apply to offshore vessels, it helps that the many boats that are on display along the whole coast can leave the market, and we can get a faster return in an important part of our fleet industry. It's one of the longest value chains we have in the country, much of what we run in the maritime sector. For this reason, I believe that the agreement with the government party was reached, among other things. on that, it is incredibly important — absolutely crucial that we have an agreement, but also unprobably good for all those who depend on safe jobs around the coast. That's the seventh and last thing that's going on in the year 2020, to be able to bite some camels in when we have to. – Of course, it helps to reduce the alcohol charge, so they are a little easier to rinse down! But we have to do it at a time when the country needs safe jobs. It is imperative to take responsibility, but it is necessary that we do so. The big thing is to help steer us safely through the greatest crisis we've ever had in peacetime. We need to do this in a way that allows Norwegian business to come out of this with the possibility of getting people back to work as quickly as possible, securing the jobs we have, and laying the foundation for creating new ones. We have done this in the maritime industry, in the yard industry – laid the foundation for the rail industry with the agreement that is on the table. But it's not just that. The efforts we are also making to increase the activity in the construction sector, to reduce Norwegian-level work to keep the entrepreneurs working, with access to contracts at a time when many others are afraid to invest, are crucial for a comprehensive Norwegian business. And what we're doing in total tax cuts, is suggesting that not only the grocery trade can create new jobs, but that large, long value chains in Norway, in the food industry, in production going to the grocery trade, can actually create value in the future. We actively urge to stand in demanding debates that Norwegian ownership must pay off if we are to have Norwegian owners who invest in jobs on the other side of the corona, instead of tightening taxes, regulate heavier and contribute to the insecurity of Norwegian jobs. Therefore, I am proud that the Progress Party will again take responsibility in demanding times, because it is necessary to secure people's work, homes, homes and jobs. That is what the State budget for 2021 is all about. Then I'm completely overconfident that later we'll have plenty of opportunity to put in place additional new policies that will boost growth and value creation in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2895	It's serious out in Norwegian schools and kindergartens. They took the corona dough in the spring on a tight arm, they have had a tough and almost impossible harvest. The task is over, the right-hand government didn't meet up. Or to say that with the words of Professor Johann Falkenberg of Bergen: «I am going mad.» He works around the clock to give the students the opportunity they need, with a risk to their own health and a high risk of infection. Yes, he said he is considering celebrating Christmas alone. I am getting more and more serious reports of coronary fatigue in schools and kindergartens all over the country. Employees report high labour pressure, increasing sick leave, lack of temporary budgets and insecurity in the field of infectious diseases. The budgets of the schools and kindergartens are already hungry. Expenditure on extrawashing, temporary work and overtime and other corona-related matters will have to be fixed by schools themselves. Billions have been set aside for business, but kindergartens and schools have been forgotten. What I'm now most concerned about is the consequences of this. As a message from Elin Måge, Norwegian teacher from Bærum, who wrote on Facebook yesterday that after New Year she left the teaching profession after 15 years. She wrote that she loves her job, but can't continue, because she doesn't feel safe because of the infection situation, that as a teacher she is not recognised for the job she does, and that she has a huge and growing amount of work. I think the message from Elin is not a single case. The enormous shiptop one had from in the spring, has been replaced by an endless work pressure. We now see that the coronary crisis is going to last a long time, and there is a need to give already worn-out employees better answers on how to stay in schools and kindergartens in the future. There is an answer the government does not have the power to give, a government that rather pushes the responsibility down to the municipalities, like the councillor Melby up here, who points to everyone else and does not see that it is she and the government who have the greatest responsibility. In kindergarten, it's the same skinny show. Sick leave among kindergarten employees has increased dramatically since the summer. Many kindergartens do not have money left for temporary workers, showing studies from Response's Analysis. We now see that this has consequences for the students. I am, like the head of the Education Federation, Steffen Handal, seriously concerned that the vulnerable students will again be hit. VG could reveal a few weeks ago that 14,000 children in primary school have had their special education reduced in the autumn. We already saw in the spring that it was the most vulnerable students who were hit hardest when the schools had to close down. It repeats unfortunately. I think the only medicine against coronary fatigue in school and kindergarten is better infection protection, more money and more people. That's why I'm glad that in the Workers' Party we put the money needed for schools and kindergartens in our community scheme, where we budget both with money and more people. But I'm not really so surprised by the government's lack of response. For almost eight years, we've had a right-wing government that doesn't have the power to give priority to school and kindergarten. The budgets of the right-hand parties continue at the same rate as before. There is more to those who have the most from before, to the privatisation of well-being and a more unsafe working life. This is a policy that weakens the Norwegian model of society and trust between people if it keeps going and we don't assume that we're solving the most important problems together. That is why I am pleased that the budget of the Labour Party shows a completely different direction. The Labour Party will not give more tax cuts to the richest, but will use the money to get people to work, to invest in skills and to give priority to schools and kindergartens. It's the end of the gifts for those who have the most of them. Now is the turn of ordinary workers. That's why we prioritise the big money for better and cheaper kindergartens, and we start introducing free SFO to all first-rates. These are things that will be noticed in the wallet of ordinary people and common families around the country. The Labour Party will also have a more active, practical and forward-looking school, where students will learn better, and where they will have a qualified teacher regardless of where they live in the country. During the right-hand rule, we have seen a growing shortage of teachers, falling recruitment, lower numbers of applicants for teacher training, and a record number of unqualified teachers who teach at school. We can't accept that. Therefore, the Workers' Party will employ, recruit and train several qualified teachers and have municipalities employ 1000 more teachers next year. The increasing unemployment of this crisis also shows that we need to invest in skills. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party is also putting money into several places of study, several college places and increased investment in research and development. That's how we get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2918	There's a lot a day now. It's social exclusion, it's permits, it's dismissals, it's approaching 200,000 unemployed, the differences between people are only increasing – and the right-wing government has spent time making sure it survives itself. It costs – it costs a lot of money to keep the right government in power. It also seems that the power over the decisions is no longer with the government. The government power is now outside the government. It is a danger signal for the country, it is a danger signal for the workplaces and businesses, and it is a danger signal for the community of Norway. I see a jojo policy where the long lines to strengthen the community are missing. First, then, the right-wing government spends seven years cutting taxes on those who have the most from the past – they have cut billions of dollars to Norway’s richest in the last seven years – and it has done under the cover of cuts in wealth taxes that provide more jobs. But when we have asked the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance whether this is actually true, we get the answer that no, cut in the wealth tax won't be what creates more jobs, that won't be what puts more people in work. Cuts in the wealth tax to the richest of Norway have one obvious consequence: the richest in the country only get even richer. The right-wing government has for seven years made sure that the fees to ordinary people have increased by over 6 billion. kr – while providing for increased taxes on commuting, tax on labour and lodging, curtailment of daily allowances, curtailment of disability benefits, curtailment of termination benefits, tax on service fees, substantial increase in electricity charges, increased charges on public transport and record collection of tolls. In addition, they have weakened the trade-union deduction, weakened the working environment law, cut the child supplement for disabled persons, increased the maximum price in kindergarten, removed the school fruit and increased the characteristics of medical visits. And there's even more examples. But the right-wing government is making sure that there is a comfort for all those who have become unemployed and permitted, for all those who have been given increased prostrations and increased fees and who have experienced that everyday life has been made more expensive for ordinary people with normal wages: they have been given a dart. The right-hand command turns off approx. One dollar and 48 cents on a pint of dart. I'm sure they'll be happy, all those who've had increased excesses, and all those who've lost their jobs. In all the negotiating noises that the government and the Progress Party have had in the last few weeks, there was no one – none – in the Right, in the Christian People's Party, in the Left or in the Advance Party who lifted a finger to strengthen one of our most important economies, namely the municipal economy. Now there are less budgets for municipalities, there are cuts in school provision, cuts in elderly care and cuts in health care and leisure services for young people. Not even the increased cost of $300 million. kr for resource-intensive services in the municipalities, some of the high gentlemen and ladies in the government were able to remember to reverse when the millions were set as the solution. Last year's municipal economy was the worst in 15 years. The economic prospects of municipalities for 2021 with the right-hand government can be even worse. It means cutbacks in our common welfare services in the midst of a crisis where we need the community most, where we need municipalities to ensure a good offer of important welfare services to their inhabitants. So they're told by the government to conduct cut policies. Where people got a little cheaper skirt to comfort, the municipalities didn't even get it. Rather, the municipalities are involved and pay for the skirt. So I guess we'll round by saying, Cheers!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2937	The Korona situation is demanding and could be even more serious for many if the Labour Party and the Stortinget had not taken the initiative of an even wider package of better measures for ordinary people, safer jobs and greater security. It was right and important. The belief that the market could cope with this crisis is not particularly faithful. The crisis required communities and, with all crises, hit the most vulnerable. The debate — and budgets — show that there are clear differences between people in Norway. It shows clear differences in the very basis of well-being and security, and it also shows that this difference has not come about by chance, no, it has come with a background in wild policy. When many people stand here and talk nice about the budget being so good, I wonder, for whom? Are they talking about the 102 000 children who grow up in poverty, the 200 000 unemployed, the 364 000 unemployed? Those who need long-term healthcare care – are they talking about? Are they talking about the parents who are in line for food? Are they talking about the children in child protection who don't get enough help because they lack people? Are they talking about the families who don't get vacation money from the day money? The families that now have to apply for tried-and-tested child care support – are these the ones they're talking about? These are quite ordinary people who are affected by government policy. We are witness to a government that talks with and to itself and to the richest among us. Once again, they get the most of the taxpayers' money. This has to end. Norway needs a new government that takes ordinary people seriously. The right-hand rule devalues and eliminates these realities and calls it black paint. Talk to someone who has a permit, if it is black paint to be without holiday money this summer. Talk to a family who has to apply for a test of need in order to send their daughter to the nursery, if it is to be black painted. Talk to a family where all the children wear glasses, and ask if they experience the cut in the spectacle stand as a black paint. The government's policy is building up the welfare state, breaking it up, selling it out. In this way, the foundations are torn out of the wall that workers have spent nearly 100 years building up. Under this government, this is left to commercial actors in schools, hospitals, child protection and kindergarten. It is creating insecurity – job, economic and health insecurity. Differences in Norway are increasing. So when we go into December and Christmastime, we're witnessing that the queues of people in need of emergency help are growing. It shows that the basic welfare system is on the move, and the government cannot blame the Korona, the government can only blame the policy. The Labour Party believes that the community must set itself up for vulnerable children, ordinary people. That is why we want welfare services that can take care of everyone. We want to build them up and not down. We want a fair climate and tax policy. We'll give holiday money to those who go on day care, we'll have cheaper kindergarten and SFO and introduce a school meal. There are measures that take everyone in society and that are not earmarked for any special groups. We want a great opportunity for volunteering, more money for the bow that lends free sports and leisure equipment, more money to the volunteer centres, making a formidable effort to engage volunteers across the country, and we need to ensure full VAT compensation. We're also going to get 160 million. for leisure activities, which enable children and young people to participate in activities in their community. If we pursue a fundamental social-democratic policy, we do not have to go on the after-school tour, as the Minister for Children and Family Affairs has done in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2954	Getting ready in Norway is too bad. The emergency response in Norway must be strengthened. It's one of the main priorities of the Center Party's alternative budget. I think that the government has a rather dangerous approach to food security when, based on the situation during the coronary eruption, they conclude that food supply is robust and flexible. The centre party of one has to build a readiness for much more serious crises, because the next crisis is not going to be like this. But what is certain is that during a crisis you will always need access to food. The centre party will strengthen food preparedness, and we propose to establish the emergency storage of food grain. I cannot understand the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party's opposition to this. The centre part will also increase the emergency storage of food. During the crisis it has been revealed how small emergency stores of food we have in Norway. Convert to energy content measured in chocolate we talk about half a route of milk chocolate to each of the North. It is not ready. It's Saturday sex on a diet. The most important measure is ongoing food production. The centre has many measures in its alternative budget to strengthen Norwegian food production, to use Norwegian resources and to secure small and large uses throughout the country. The proposal for a veterinary watch and an increase in the propensity to renew poultry are important initiatives. Fishing industry is an important part of food preparedness. The centre party will have a fisheries policy that ensures the growth and development of fishing communities along the whole coast. We then need a lack of fishing fleet, and we need a modern, developing country industry. The centre will be involved and supported with support for the modernisation of both fishing fleets and the fishing industry and with a special focus on Nord-Troms and Finnmark. The Government and the Advance Party have turned the fishing industry and the fish into a dairy for tax collection – 42 million. kr to the treasury of the inspection fee, a quarter of a billion extra CO 2 fee and notice that a so-called 100 million fish tax will be introduced in the revised budget. kr. The centre party will not make the fishing industry a dairy for the state treasury. There was a great deal of joy in this room today because there will be no cuts in the net pay arrangements for seafarers. In isolation, this is good, but the reality is that the seafarers and maritime industry have been used in a cynical game by the government. In the middle of a pandemic, the government suggests a strong cut in the net pay system, knowing that both the opposition and the supporting party will react to this, and that it will be one thing for the Progress Party to clean up. But it is a harmful and unworthy game the government has used the seafarers and maritime nourishment for this cottage. So one might ask, are these conspiratory thoughts? The book for Trine Skei Grande gives real support to the fact that this is the way solar parliamentarianism works. In this book, it was found that the familial cessation of fur nutrition was only a test from the Left’s side – a test with a frame of 200 families. Three years after the ban on nutrition came into force, no good compensation system has yet been established. The State budget does not answer this question either. I would like to use the end of the article to send a clear message to Minister of Agriculture, Olug Bollestad, about fur bags: that's enough. It's probably an empty promise. I'm sure it's training. I'm sure there's some excuses. That's enough avoidance. It has to be done now. One must provide for a system that completely replaces the fur farmers. They're real people. It's real family that's a frame. That's who it's about. It's not about the well-being of the government or the Minister of Agriculture. So give the fur farmers full compensation, and end with all the game around them. I hope there's a call for the Minister of Agriculture to take along, and that we can quickly end this unworthy case that the government has used in a power game to secure positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e2978	At last year's financial debate, no one could imagine what we had in store for 2020. The Korona virus has been embossing the whole year and the whole world. Thanks to a very special effort by the Norwegian population, we have managed to keep the infection quite low and society quite open through large parts of the pandemic. But we're not on target. In recent times, the level of infection has fallen slightly, but it is still too high. That's why we can't lower our shoulders. The main objective of the government with the state budget for 2021 is to take Norway out of the corona crisis. We need to ensure good infectious disease protection and good health care treatment, while responding to the long-term challenges we face. The budget proposal enables hospitals to manage the coronary apathy, while facilitating the strengthening of both quality and capacity. The operating appropriations for hospitals are proposed to be increased by 6.5 billion. kr next year. The draft budget covers exceptional costs arising from covid-19, and it provides room for increasing patient treatment by about 2.5 pst. For comparison, the demography costs are 1.3 pst. 200 million. kr shall be granted an incentive scheme to stimulate health establishments to implement improvement measures aimed at reducing the increased waiting times due to the pandemic. As a result of the budgetary agreement, 250 million will be allocated. NOK to bring down the waiting times in the hospitals by purchasing from the private sector. We're also proposing 2 billion. kr for the construction of stand-by warehouses for infectious equipment and medicinal products. We propose to simplify and improve the free card system for health expenditure by making today's two self-interest rates one. This is an important social reform which means that patients who currently have the highest health costs save a lot of money and receive faster free healthcare. In the budget agreement, the social profile has been further improved in this area. The 188 000 patients in Norway with the highest health costs save more than NOK 2 170 each year on this change. In total, 590,000 users will benefit from this scheme and receive on average approximately $1,300 each in lower costs. After eight budgets, the government has set up about 8 percentage points of budgeted growth in hospitals than after eight budgets with the red-green government. Municipalities across the country have done – and do – a great deal to manage the infection, while delivering the usual services to their citizens. Throughout the pandemic, the government has been very clear that we are going to set up for the municipalities. We have done so through several packages of measures, and so far the KS and the State agree that the compensation is in line with the additional expenditure and minor income incurred by the municipal sector. I'm glad, and we're going to continue to set up in 2021 as well. The government is helping to improve the quality and capacity of care services. As a result of the budgetary agreement between the four civil parties, a grant is proposed for 2000 lucky day care places. Many older people have been socially isolated as a result of the covid-19-related infectious diseases. As part of the budget agreement, 400 million will be allocated. to combat solitude among the elderly. It is also proposed that there should be 450 million. to the action plan for the general medical service. Actions shall contribute to the achievement of the objectives of an attractive and safe career path for the permanent staff, good quality for all and a future team-based general medical service. Noise and mental health have always been a high priority in this government. The action plan for children and young people’s mental health is followed up by 170 million. kr. The government is proposing 93 million. SEK for the work of the joint municipal journal solution, Akson, for the municipalities other than the health region of Central Norway, and SEK 189 million. kr to eHealth interaction measures. Fortunately, the pandemic will not last forever. Through cooperation with the EU, Norway has access to the vaccine and it is set at 2.47 billion. NOK to this in 2021. The signals about about 90 pst. the vaccine effect is very good news. There's light in the tunnel. Hang on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3003	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3008	Two out of three work part-time in municipal health and care services. This was already a problem for the elderly, who still met new faces and for health professionals without financial security. But during the pandemic, we also see many examples of how harmful it is to the protection of infectious diseases with a lot of time and temporary workers instead of enough people at work in all fixed positions. We could help solve this in this year's budget. Many municipalities, such as the Arbeiderparti-steered Arendal, have already made efforts to increase the proportion of full-time jobs in the sector. In a decade when they got up the full-time share by 5 pst. At the same time, the State should be an active driver of this work. We could, as the Workers' Party suggests, use less on temporary workers and consultants and instead strengthen staffing and full-time in both the hospital and municipal sectors. Why does the Right do not have a greater willingness to prioritize full time in its budget – not just because it is good for the user and the employee, but simply because it is also good for the protection of infection?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3017	It really has the Right and the Government, so in this state budget we have presented Competence Grant 2025, where the work to reduce the use of part-time and temporary workers has been raised as a very clear goal. In Competencelift 2025, there's 2.2 billion set up. in earmarked funds to improve and improve the quality of municipal health and care services, such as: shall be used for this purpose. It has been important for me all the way to contribute to a full-time culture, both in the specialist health service and in the community health service. The fact that we are now raising this work for the first time as a central objective of the lifting of skills in a five-year plan, where we will also invite the parties to discuss how we develop and improve this, I believe that I represent a shift of pace in work towards part-time, a full-time culture and a reduction in the use of temporary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3024	It is probably the case that in the Workers' Party we have a different perception of the government's work in this field. I want to go into another area where we're deeply concerned about the corona, and that's people's mental health. We have included in our budget a significant strengthening of both school health services, low-threshold mental health services and mental health protection in hospitals. In a written question to the State Council, the Workers' Party has challenged him on how and what the government has estimated the mental costs of the population to be at the limits and restrictions we are now experiencing. The answer is that you don't know that, but it's shown, among other things. to a study conducted by the FHI in June which did not show much more solitude or mental distress. I wish it were true, but fear that it is not true. We'll get, for example. feedback that auxiliary telephones are experiencing explosive growth in serious incidents. Is it so that the government assumes that the corona measures do not lead to an increase in mental distress when introducing the individual new measures? When can we possibly expect the mental costs of the population to be included as part of the decision-making basis before new measures are introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3036	This is included each time, both in the assessment of the measures and the weightings there. All this has been done, not least taking into account all the different measures that have been put in place. At each crossroad where we have come with different packages of measures, there have also been actions in this area: significant efforts to build up mental health services, significant efforts in support of voluntary teams and organisations involved in this, and strengthening the number of helplines. There are a number of other measures to compensate for the negative aspects. But despite that, we're not going to be able to compensate for everything. Action against a pandemic has negative sides that we are unfortunately going to have to live with for many years to come. Unfortunately, we also know very well that it is the most vulnerable who are also hit hardest if we lose control of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3041	NIPT and early ultrasound have definitely been part of the negotiations. Even I have had three children and know very well the feelings and concerns you have as a pregnant woman. It is important for many women to feel safe in pregnancy and to detect disease early. The focus of the Progress Party is on ending the need for Norwegian women to be NIPT refugees to neighbouring countries. The government suffered a great defeat in the matter, and we are waiting for the follow-up. Now there were claims in our country that we had not followed up this in the negotiations and stood by to get the money. Luckily, the prime minister cleared it off the track. But there seems to be resistance in the government to implementing this. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister of Health: can the Council of State guarantee that it will now launch an introduction of NIPT and early ultrasound, and that this will be started in 2021?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3046	The simple answer to that is yes. The government is following up the decisions taken by the Stortinget in this area – the consensus we have with the Progress Party in the budget negotiations. In line with that agreement, an authorisation system will be established for private individuals to offer NIPT, and we will come back in the revised budget with the follow-up to offer additional NIPT to a larger group of pregnant women. It is worth noting, however, that I was the Health Minister, with the Advance Party in government, who approved the use of NIPT in Norway for the first time. It's been years. It's not about using NIPT in Norway, we've been using it for years. It's about an expansion in the use of NIPT, and we're following up the consensus that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3053	It's good to hear that you have a plan for it, and that it's being implemented. We also have some other health refugees, people who have MS. We have recently seen a document that shows that many people spend hundreds of thousands of dollars travelling abroad — Mexico and Russia — using stem cell therapy. This is a kind of treatment that we find in our neighboring country, which has a completely different approach to this. We also have a pilot project in Haukeland. I am very pleased that the Progress Party has been able to make more money and give more opportunities to have this type of operation in Norway – including those who have not tried all other instruments. It's simply because these people are in a very difficult situation. It's a terrible disease. So I wonder, how quickly will the Minister of Health take the initiative that more people can get into this scheme, and that hopefully more people will be able to recover using this method?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3062	I fully agree, and I am very pleased that the Progress Party has been able to get through the negotiations to expand the study we have on MS patients. This could now involve significantly more patients than it was on the basis of. Many patients will appreciate that. What's also extra great about doing it this way is that this will not only be a joy for the individual patient – by doing it through a study, the knowledge we get through the study will not only benefit Norwegian patients, but benefit patients around the world. One of the challenges in this area is that very many have offered such treatment without having completed good studies in advance. This does not recognise it as a treatment. If the Norwegian studies show that this is a good treatment, and better than the current treatment, it will have a very positive impact on many other patients. This is going to be followed up by me quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3069	In a situation where the majority in the middle of a pandemic is finding it necessary to cut down on the fixed medical system and increase the efficiency requirement for hospitals, the funds for the joint journal solution Akson in the Health Directorate screen. Akson is strongly criticised by both trade unions, the research community and a comprehensive Norwegian IT environment. Akson has not been listening – it is also criticised. The National Audit Service has started investigating both the journal project and the consulting services in the Directorate, and there are not several cases in the Stortinget. But the Minister of Health has clearly threatened this through budgetary negotiations. My question is, does the Minister of Health not think it is unfortunate to proceed with such a project, which will cost 22 billion? Finally, when it does not even have a real plurality in the population selected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3076	I have heard several times the representative Toppe claimed that it is cut in the public hospitals in this budget agreement. It's definitely wrong. There is a historic commitment to the public hospitals in this budgetary agreement. It is also wrong that there is a cut in the fixed medical system. There is a historic commitment to the permanent arrangement in this budget. I hope the representative can not repeat these incorrect claims. The history of Akson: Akson is a project that is strongly longed for by those who work in municipal health and care services. The nurses' union, which organizes most of them, is a strong driver for this. It's strongly longed for by the patients. Therefore, the Joint Organisation of Disabilities is a strong driver of this project. It is strongly longed for by the municipalities. Therefore, KS and Kommune-Norge are strong drivers of this project. When I presented this to the municipalities, it was very enthusiastic that we had been able to get a chance to finally allocate money to get on with this project, which is incredibly important for us in Norway to get a coherent healthcare service, also digitally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3085	In the community health service and in hospitals, employees are now very tired. They need more colleagues to share responsibility with. At Hamar it was so wrong that the municipal doctor stopped not to lose a whole sail. In a chronicle at Nok.no, Oda, 26, a nurse at St. Olav's hospital, writes that there are so tight tournaments that she can't sleep between shift shifts. They lack health professionals, and we risk a flight from these professions because there is too tight a framework to have enough employees. Then I looked in amazement at the budgetary conciliation, and then I have to ask the Minister of Health: how is it going to be Minister of Health and accept to spend billions on cheap cannabis and alcohol rather than money for more necessary jobs in the health and care sectors and in hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3092	I can assure Andersen, the representative, that there is a significant increase in the amount spent on strengthening both the municipality's economy and the hospitals' economy. It is a very important priority in this budget. History will show – if the representative goes into the figures and looks at the annual development of the municipalities under this government – that there is a strong annual development in the municipalities in the care and care sector. What's extra nice is that this growth is especially great in those groups that have higher education, i.e. the nurses. It's a very positive development that helps to improve the quality of healthcare. I fully agree with the representative's description of the work situation for those working in healthcare now. Working under a pandemic for so long is extremely demanding. It is demanding to live with the uncertainty, it is demanding to live with the infectious measures that are, and when it lasts for so long, it is a heavy burden. I am incredibly grateful for the efforts that are being put down. But one can be sure that this budget will enable them to have more colleagues and more colleagues who also have the opportunity to gain higher competence through the Competence Plan 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3099	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3104	I know a child who doesn't have room for the SFO. He falls between two chairs — the parents do not have enough income to get into the local child poverty project, but they do not make enough money to give priority to SFO space to all their kids. That's why it's my little brother's turn to go in the door at the SFO, and it's big brother's turn to stand outside and look in. I also know someone who is unemployed. He is one of the 250,000 Nordics without a job that has to do without holiday money for the summer. And I know a jailer who is afraid to go to work because security is weakened in the workplace. There is a great need to put security scanners in prison, so that drugs and harmful objects do not enter prison – it is her job. But money for scanners had to give up for tax cuts and border trade. I read in the Free Trade Movement that the government is increasing the cuts in the state by 365 million. kr. The headline is: Prioritize snuffing in front of better well-being. The budgetary agreement between the Government and the Advance Party involves cuts in the State. One of the saving measures is to increase cheese conditions. They're increasing the cuts from around 1.8 billion. kr to over SEK 2,1 billion. NOK 2021. This may not seem like the large sums when the government with the Advance Party sat around the table and negotiated, but for her who today again is on the evening watch and had hoped that the negotiations would lead to her job getting a scanner in place, it seems further cut to 5 million. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know, I don't know. We who listen to the employees know that they cannot run faster in the public sector. At work in prison, there are no more bureaucrats to cut; it is no longer more to streamline. Then it may not be so strange that LO and the employees shake their heads over one of the proposals we are going to discuss here today: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to Stortingen with an efficiency strategy for the public sector.’ It's not so strange that we can read that the leader of LO Stat says: ‘I will again warn against the consequences of such cuts. Many of the businesses have already cut down to the bone over many years with these flat, unprioritised cuts. The alarm clocks have been ticking for a long time, and now we're in the middle of a pandemic, where the state and the employees are put on big tests. 0,1 % does not sound much, but will have consequences for the delivery of services.» This is a bit of a thank you to government employees who have worked around the clock to deal with the pandemic and its consequences. NTl score: «So far, this government has only cut 600 annual works in Nav, which means that the government seems to be quite fine with longer processing times in Nav. We are in a situation where criminal sanctions have to be imposed because of cows in the courts, and we have been getting worse preparedness all over the country over the years because the budgetary situation is so harsh in the establishments." In the current crisis, we really see the value of our community. We clearly see the value of the organized working life. High trust, strong solidarity with each other — Norway is at its best. But we in the Labour Party are concerned that both trust and solidarity are now under pressure. After weeks of negotiations between the government parties and the Progress Party, the parties will end up agreeing to cut taxes on alcohol and tobacco instead of measures for those who have been laid off, permitted and firms that are struggling and on the brink of bankruptcy. We see more of the same thing as we have seen in the last seven years: the weakening and privatisation of our well-being and a more unsafe working life. This weakens the Norwegian model of society. It weakens the trust between people. The working party wants to solve the most important problems together. Now the social democratic model of society needs more than it needs for a long time. We need a community that takes greater responsibility and safeguards our common welfare state. There are hundreds of thousands of Norwegians going back to work. We're going to make our common welfare state stronger. The welfare state should embrace everyone — a safe upbringing, a good school and a raw care for the elderly, no matter what you serve or where you live. For it is as the head of the LO State says to the Free Trade Movement: ‘With Frp as the negotiator, it is probably not to be expected that H, KrF and V will do anything but continue to cut and prioritize better well-being. Therefore, next year’s major choice will be very critical...’» Now it's the turn of the workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3149	Traffic has been a priority area for the Right and the Government since we took over in 2013. A good infrastructure is important for us to have value creation and housing across the country. Great commitment to transportation also creates activity. The Korona crisis has reminded us how important it is that the transport supply is there when we need it. It has therefore been important for public transport, freight and air transport to function at a time when people travel less. Needed and societal critical functions have been maintained. Airports have been open throughout the country, and significant funds have been used to purchase routes and for public transport. It will continue in the State budget for 2021 and in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. We build road and track in a long-term perspective. This is what we do to link the country together and to facilitate the safe and efficient development of people and goods, and to build strong housing and labour market regions that can contribute to growth and value creation across the country. Since 2013, it has opened 800 km of modern and traffic-safe roads, and we are building more. The continuous development of E6 in Helgeland is important for accessibility and road safety and for building a part of the country with an active business. We're building the E6 in a continuous way in the Trendelag. Together with the Trunder Railway, it will link large and small cities and agglomerations to a coherent housing and labour market. It will mean a lot to growth and value creation in that region. For freight transport, an hour and a half saved travel time between Trondheim and Oslo means a lot. And maybe closer to two hours saved travel time from Ålesund is important for the export industry at More. We build coherent E6 through the Inland, as well as important cross-links. It will link the Mjøs region with the railway, shorten travel time to the Oslo region and increase attractiveness throughout the region. These are just a few examples showing the importance of the cultural effort for growth and value creation across the country and perhaps the strongest regional policy instrument we have. The transport budget that the government submitted for 2021 is over 80 billion. kr. Following the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, this has been further strengthened and a doubling has been achieved since 2013. It gives more way and way, and it creates great activity across the country. At the same time, we must take care of what we have. On the national road network, the maturity has turned to renewal and the maintenance run has been reduced every year since 2015. In 2021 it is reduced by over 1.5 billion. kr. It's noticed when we drive along Norwegian roads. It has also been important and necessary to increase appropriations for transport, but that alone is not enough. That is why we have implemented important reforms. The establishment of New Roads has shown that it is possible to build roads faster and at a lower cost, and that the social benefits of projects are increasing. It is estimated that the savings in the portfolio are of 59 billion. kr, of which 25 bn. kr is pure cost reductions. That simply means that we're going to get more weight for each of these heads. In the railway sector, too, we are working on major reforms. The new organisational model and the implementation of competitive tendering in passenger train transport are important steps. After completing three packages of traffic, we have achieved a total savings of 1.2 billion. kr per year during the tendering period, compared with 2019. This is possible at the same time as the offer to customers is improved. All reforms in the transport sector have been opposed by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. They voted against the establishment of New Roads and opposed the competitive launching of the railway. But they like to keep the gain. When I hear the representative Battle Violence Vedum and the Center Party, it may seem that they are more concerned with reverse than reforming. I've read the alternative budget of the Center Party and I see that all the talk about reversal is just words. When the budget is to be balanced, it is very convenient to use the benefits of reforms they have voted against. The representative Battle Violence Vedum called the gain from the outsourcing notional in the line change earlier today. I guess that's a description that might be more appropriate to the central party's budget. We're in a hard time. Then it is important and right to spend money on compensation schemes and measures to get us through the crisis. At the same time, we need to facilitate conversion and value creation and create new jobs. A good infrastructure across the country is important for us to do it. Transport policy is perhaps our most important territorial policy tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3174	A few days ago, I received an e-mail from a taxi owner in Oslo Taxi – a 61-year-old man who writes to me that he is very concerned about the future, so worried that it goes beyond the quality of life. He further writes that it only goes a few months longer before he is bankrupt, and with single company the house also goes away. He signs “hidden driver of taxis”. Yeah, there's a lot of people who have a hard time right now. So Trond Helleland and others can say that it's the Workers' Party that is black-painting the situation, but these are examples of reality. The market economy and many other industries are struggling and having difficulties due to the measures introduced in the exceptional situation. But as if not enough: in the middle of the difficult situation, the government wants to force it through the liberalisation of the taxi industry. On 1 November the industry was fully liberalised. In reality, anyone can now start driving taxis – to the great dismay of those who are involved in the industry today. Why does the government treat workers like that? In the Question Time last week, I asked the Minister of Transport about the situation of the train keepers, i.e. those who wash the trains. I referred to a conversation I had had with Wenche Bye, who is trusted by the train operators in Trondheim. In fact, as a result of the government’s railway reform, the cleaners have fallen in wages – despite the fact that the government and the majority of the population who adopted the so-called railway reform promised the opposite. The Minister of Transport did not want to discuss the question with me, but I have subsequently received documentation from Wenche Bye showing that the cleaners have actually lost their wages. The cleaners wash the same trains as before in the same place, but in a new company, for a significantly lower payment. Why is the government doing this? Why does the government treat workers in this way? Now there's the free ticket for employees and pensioners in public transport the government is after. It is now to be taxed. This is a good thing that public transport employees have had for all years: bus drivers, hauliers, drivers, conductors and other employees in public transport. Now it has to be taxed. Why does the government do that? Well, of course, they have to finance the tax bill for the storks, and then it's very easy to take away workers. Then I have noticed the Progress Party in the debate today. Several speakers have said that in a normal situation this draft budget had not been adopted. Well, so very eye-catching it wasn't that there was a budgetary settlement. It is the same four parties that have adopted the seven previous budgets and held together in all political matters in the Grand Duchy over the last seven years. So it was really the most show and play for those who thought there wasn't going to be a budget deal. The budget will be adopted, and if the budget mates are so dissatisfied with the content of the budget, one would probably think that it was the difficult situation that is now for people and businesses out there, who had marked the budgetary negotiations. But is it? Is that the situation of the out-of-work and the unemployed? No, no, no. Is there a situation for enterprises that are struggling due to a loss in turnover? No, no, no. Is that the situation for cleaners and taxi drivers? No, that's not it. Is there a situation for aviation employees, in the hotel and restaurant industries or in the travel industry? Are there measures for those who have marked the budgetary negotiations? No, that's not it. In my area, the Gardermo region and Ullensaker, there is now the highest unemployment rate in the country. People are waiting for measures and proposals from the government, and at least for us to have a government that has dialogue with the industry, dialogue with the social partners and find solutions to the difficult situation. That should have shaped the debate today. I have looked for points of light in the budget agreement, and then I was a little happy when I heard Ola Elvestuen today, because he talked about the budgetary agreement leading to increased funding for Nysnø. Then I thought, "That was something." Could we still get some snow that lit up in our lives? But in the course of the day I realized that that certainly didn't mean that, that was enough a disappointment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3193	On 1 December, Nav reported that 195 800 people in Norway were completely unemployed, partially unemployed or looking for work on measures – 6.9 p.m. by the labour force. In addition, 120 163 persons were on redundancy pay, AAP, at the end of the third quarter. This constitutes 3,5 pst. of the population aged 18–66 years. So it's going to be a total of more than 315,000 people and over 10 pst. Now it's serious. It is this state budget for 2021 to provide answers to, in order to create greater security and hope for the future for people. The manager of the centre party said in his statement that this record-breaking vacancy is being taken too lightly. The Labour Party leader, Gahr Støre, said that work for everyone is job number one. Minister of Finance Sanner said that it is uncertain whether the value creation does not fall in the fall of 2021 – that is, new problems seen by the Ministry of Finance. The Council of State further said that we have to prevent unemployment from breaking down at an too high level – please note: too high a level. The general slogan of the centre party is full employment and the fight against unemployment, to put it bluntly. A crisis plan, remedial measures must be put in place for businesses and workers and short-term seafarers, and new industrial activities must be facilitated with productive measures, as was said in the 1930s, in order for businesses to see opportunities in new products for the future. Then we can look at the Saugbruksföreningen in Halden as an example. They have now stopped one of their paper machines. They want the wood mass that went to that paper machine to go to a new factory that costs billions, that can produce composites, semi-finished composites, which is a green product, to replace a black product, which today comes from oil. But action is needed. Then it is not useful to have – as we have today – an intra-company training scheme that is such that a ceiling for the Saugbruksföreningen is set at 2 million. kr per holding in the course of two years. Strong measures are needed to convert the workforce and ownership of the enterprise is required to ensure that it has capital to implement it. We must have full employment with Norwegian wage and work conditions, and uncontrolled labour migration is not possible. It is in direct conflict with the overall goal that work for everyone is job number one, as Gahr Støre said. Spoken young people from countries with high unemployment rates and poor pay and working conditions are today willing to work for conditions that make the Norwegian unemployment worse. That is why we must have a system-critical debate on controlled versus uncontrolled labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries. The size must become more important. It is the Stortinget that must guide the broad lines of labour market policy. Everyone must be able to live from his or her hard-to-income work when he or she has full or partial ability to work. Today, people with low levels of employment are losing in the competition for jobs. So we have to do something in the short term. The main measures of the Centre Party are wage subsidies in a range that finance 10,000 new jobs, where enterprises employ people with partial working capacity, provide them with full pay, and the difference between the people and the people must have is covered by the wage subsidy – a fantastic scheme. We're betting there, and it seems that the Central Party is the only party that is strongly committed to this necessary and important instrument. That it's expensive — yes, it's expensive over the state budget, but it's socio-economic cheap because people provide according to their ability and thus have income to function well in society. It is also necessary to ensure that there is a demand for the many people who are cleared with redundancy payments, those who have over 50 pst. ability to work. Those people today are far too little in demand for it. That measure will increase demand. It will make it easier for Nav to work according to his purpose, namely to get people to work. Here we need to have a debate on the broad lines of the labour market in order to ensure full employment. The centre party is responsible for controlled labour migration, and we are responsible for a business policy that violates business neutrality, which enables us to create profitability for the Saugbruksföreningen, so that it can happen by using both the state's own capital and its state budget to convert the companies to new jobs. A contingency plan is required.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3216	There is not much enthusiasm to track from the government party or from the Progress Party today. There are no words about good projects that have been better, no pleasant tone and real smiles. It's obvious that Erna's dream of a four-party government is now definitely shattered. One example is the Progress Party representative Dale, who said that the government had a demeaning, distorting and worsening policy. This reminds me most of a divorce settlement with a dirty laundry in full public -- hurting, bitter, where everyone sees there's no way back. The pandemic has a great deal of 2020. A lot of people have a hard time. Nearly 200,000 are out of work, the differences are increasing, and the climate problem is hanging over us. Nevertheless, the government chooses to prioritise the stock exchange people with large stock assets and also proposes to make it more expensive to be ill – and that in the middle of a pandemic. It's completely impossible for me to understand. No, now is the turn of ordinary workers. Over seven years, the Right Party has given big gifts to the richest and funded it by increasing the fees for ordinary people. Now the Progress Party has got cold feet, so now the fees are going to be turned down again – but the Reichingfesten is coming forward. The Labour Party will have greater justice and more jobs. We also show that with our simple tax regime – lower taxes on income below DKK 750,000, higher on high incomes and wealth, unchanged taxes on businesses. And no charges should be levied without other taxes or income taxes being reduced accordingly. Eight out of ten will pay less income tax with the Workers' Party. Nine out of ten pensioners will come out better. We also make it more reasonable to commute to work, be professionally organized and have children in kindergarten or SFO. People see this as a fair thing, which frustrates the Right both here today and in many newspapers where one to the contrary repeats the false claim that the wealth tax is a tax on business. Let me take it with a teaspoon: the property tax is a personal tax. In addition, it is the only personal tax that ensures that even the richest contributions to the community. The right government has given million gifts to the richest, concentrated in Oslo west and Bærum. Cuts in taxes on wealth are not good district policies. Kutta hasn't created a single demonstrable job either. It has only increased the difference between people, gave bad cuts to weak groups, and weakened the hospital economy, the municipal economy and the musculoskeletal system to drive targeted business development. Now the social-democratic model needs more than ever. We need to bet on public hospitals and more firmers – not increase state support to privatise the health care system. We need a fair climate policy that creates green jobs, that the whole country can participate in the elbiculture. Then we have to stop the state's funding of luxury cars and instead put in place charging stations in all municipalities across the country. What's not fair is to cut the tax for the richest and at the same time increase the taxes for everyone. The Right Party and the Advance Party do not realize that what has happened in the years of Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party in the plurality of this Chamber is just that. In addition, the government has overpriced the fees and, among other things, frame those who take driver cards and those who have fallen into debt and want to settle separately. The working party will cut this fee. That's not correct. The Labour Party shows with its alternative budget that we are the party of ordinary people – most people. Right again, it's probably the party for the most people in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3237	In the draft State budget for 2021, the government continues to play a strong role in the field of justice and preparedness. Ever since the government joined in 2013, we have been committed to strengthening police and preparedness in Norway. It's been absolutely necessary. We now have record policemen, and we are growing in all police districts. Next year, the government is proposing a historic lift with the employment of 400 policemen. This means that in 2021 we go past the target of two per thousand and have the strongest police crew in modern times. Both in total and in posts, the government proposes a significant strengthening of all stages of the criminal proceedings chain. The objectives are better prevention and faster clarification and correction. We have therefore proposed strengthening the police with both more police officers and new prosecutors. We have also proposed strengthening the higher prosecution authority with new state lawyers. Then it is that when police and prosecution work is strengthened, the courts must also be strengthened. The Court of Auditors has, among other things: criticised that too many courts have too long legal proceedings. Therefore, the government proposes measures in the form of both financial resources, new employment, digitisation and structural changes. There are also proposals for funds for a necessary pre-project for a new town hall in Bergen. The government also proposes to continue the efforts on new buildings and rehabilitation in the field of criminal law. Oslo Prison is important, including: due to the maintenance capacity of the East. The prison is worn down and not functional. The government is therefore proposing funds for a pre-project for a new prison. The Ila detention centre also needs substantial rehabilitation, and the government therefore grants 157 million. kr in the 2021 budget. In addition, the government proposes to strengthen efforts to combat isolation in prison and specific measures for female prisoners. The Government continues its important efforts to strengthen overall preparedness. The police emergency centre was completed this autumn. This is a big boost for our national preparedness. The government has also proposed additional funds in the budget for 2021 to allow 500 response personnel from all police districts to train at the new emergency centre each year. It will strengthen preparedness throughout the country. The government will also strengthen fire and rescue training. We propose to establish a new technical school for fire and rescue personnel in Tjeldsund. Construction starts in 2021, and from 2023, 160 students can start their education every year. It will strengthen civil protection throughout the country. Let me also mention that the government is proposing to increase the allocation to the Rescue Company to strengthen the preparedness along the coast of the north with a new lifeguard. Through the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, we have agreed on further strengthening the justice and preparedness field. We will receive further reinforcement of the police in the districts, which will increase the presence and more patrols. We are getting a significant boost in our efforts to combat juvenile and gang crime across the country. We agree that separate animal police units should be set up in all the police districts that do not already have them. We agree on further strengthening of the courts, both with several posts and with the means of sound and video recording equipment in the courts. We agree to allocate funds for a pre-project for the construction of a joint Norwegian-Swedish border police station at Magnormoen. We agree to strengthen the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, with funds both for material matters and for empowerment actions in civil defence. We are in a special time, and we all hope that by 2021 we will have a more normalized situation. The government's draft budget makes good sense so that we can get through the pandemic and also meet every day afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3270	We now have a situation where victims of crime are in long queues before their case comes before the courts. There are thousands of things waiting for treatment. We see that criminals get criminal discounts because it just takes too long to deal with matters. Employees have sent alerts about this situation, and it is a notified crisis. In addition to the fact that the appropriations have been too low, it has been difficult to see where the money is actually going. This is why last year the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights called for a very simple approach which could improve the situation, namely that the funds for the prosecutors were prioritised in a separate line of government budget. It doesn't cost a penny, but it could make the situation better. The question is simply: why does the Minister of Justice not follow up on the request of an overall Judicial Committee – a clear message to get the police lawyers to their own posts in the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3277	I am very happy to be part of a government that has focused on police, prosecutors, courts this year after year in all our years of government. There are now 30 psts employed. more police lawyers than it was in 2013. It's significant. And to use Oslo as an example: Oslo had 127 prosecution lawyers before 2013 if you take Bærum and Asker, with which you were joined. Now you have 180. That's a plus of approx. 50 prosecutors in Oslo police district alone. So it's like we're betting on both police lawyers and a historic strengthening of the court. That is what the Chief Executive of the Court of Justice said: a historic initiative. So the attack on the lack of priority is more than strange, and I invite the representative to read the budget one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3282	I thank you for the answer, but that is not what I asked for. I can also inform the Minister of Justice that both I and the rest of the Workers' Party have read the budget. It has also been done by the prosecutors, and the staff who are very critical not only that this is not properly visible in the budget, so that you can get to the bottom of how the appropriations are actually made available, but also that the appropriations are too low. What we know is that if you had given 100 million. kr completely directly for prosecution, one would be able to remove the queue of victims waiting for treatment. It's a stressful situation for people who are subjected to assault or other crime, to stand for a long time waiting for the case to be dealt with in court, and I don't understand why it's so difficult to make the simple arrest of the Justice Committee last year. I can ask if the government will come back and do this from the revised national budget and actually follow up on it also the prosecutors in the police have asked for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3289	I am a little surprised at the question, since I answered it on Wednesday in the Questionnaire, but I would like to repeat the answer. So first of all, it's 30 pst. more police lawyers now than in 2013. Secondly, the queues have gone down considerably. The queue is now – and we are not finished 2020 – 20 pst. shorter than at the end of October last year. So there's been a significant decrease. That's good. It's good for the victim, and it's good that we get several cases corrected, so that people are judged for their criminal acts. Then it is quite right that there is a request decision from the committee to make the bet visible to the police. That's what I'm going to follow up, but it's not something you just kind of do with a desktop technique. It actually requires thorough work by the Directorate of Police and the Ministry of Justice. We haven't been able to prioritize that work this year. We've prioritised dealing with a coronary crisis and a number of things that we've had to do, but we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3297	It may be wondered whether the State Council and the Government take the security of prisons seriously, both for employees and for prisoners. I wonder: how does the Council of State see that criminal services should put in place these security scanners that must come as a natural consequence of the recent Gulating judgment that has led to a change in body vision and the introduction of new rules? We in the Workers' Party are promoting a proposal here today, a proposal to the government that the government should put in place security scanners in prisons – we believe it is a government's responsibility and task to ensure that the institutions can comply with the law – and then they can come back to the RNB's Stortingen with it. Will the Council of State follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3304	I can assure you that I take the safety of employees, including in criminal matters, seriously. We have also invested heavily in new buildings, rehabilitation and investment in new technology. It's important. But I'm probably a little surprised by the debate, because both the representative and some others now seem to be of the opinion that you can no longer visit visitors and prisoners. Of course you can, but you can't do it unwarranted, and you can't do it arbitrarily. But you can still search the good, old, manual way if you have a legitimate suspicion. So there's nothing that's now gone out of criminal care: you can still do that, even if we're going to put scanners in place at the same time and we're going to get more screening equipment in place. The combination is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3309	Efforts to combat juvenile and nightlife crime are extremely important. That's why the Progress Party is very happy that we've brought the government parties with us to prioritize 60 million. extra in the state budget to press on further to combat this type of crime, which is very important if we are not to evolve towards our neighbouring country Sweden. My question to the Council of State is this: It is registered that some police officers have concerns because one chooses to focus on prevention measures to replace concrete, clear measures relating to police presence in the street, by establishing respect and clarity from the police about who is actually in charge. The question to the Council of State is this: Does she think that the hard tools are being given sufficient priority, or is it too much based on the soft ones? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3316	We're very lucky to live in a country with little juvenile delinquency and little repeat crime, but we have some problems, especially here in Oslo. That is why I am very pleased with the efforts the government has made with the Advance Party in government and with the Advance Party outside government. The fact that we have a clear commitment to combating recriminalism is important. These are the elements we don't have space for in our society. It's not safe. It's a recruitment arena, and we have to fight it. I feel that work is being targeted, based on local knowledge, with local means of tackling this, especially here in Oslo, as I said. I think the effect it has is very crucial. There is no contradiction to driving the prevention of crime. Any crime we can prevent and avert is very important, and therefore it is good that all the new police districts have common units that prevent and have this as their primary strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3323	When I take it up, it is well aware that we have had similar problems in the past, especially in the capital. Then it has been possible to reverse it through clear tools, by being present, using the tools you have, not only through prevention, but also by combating it in the street. Once again, my question is: Of course, you have to have a combination of prevention and presence, but when employees in the Oslo Police report back to us that you see with concern that the prevention is at the expense of the presence, that there is a lot of this work going on in the police offices, and not in the street, I get very worried. Experience in the past has shown that it is the tough, tough measures that have worked. Is the Council of State willing to take a closer look at the Oslo police force, whether they are actually using the possibilities they have? [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3328	It's not that long since I've been with the Oslo Police Department. I feel that they have a lot of knowledge and good methods, and they are working very hard on this. They don't do it from inside their offices. They do it with presence in the environments, with intelligence, with analysis, and I experience that they have many good projects that are just going to make sure to detect and fight this type of crime. We have to do that with money. We have to do it with tougher rules related to recruiting for recrime, with being able to make gains on this type of crime. We have to do it with a review, and we are doing it, of the juvenile punishment that gives greater flexibility and clarity to the follow-up of young people, especially recruited into this. So my impression is that it's doing a lot of good work. I haven't heard the opposite, but if that's the case, we can of course go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3333	Then we're going to go to the next replicator, but before we do that, the president will stress that when it's 00:00 p.m. on the platform, the time is up. Then you shouldn't try to draw a question. Then you can hand over the reasoning to the Council of State. There's no point in starting to talk beyond that, because then speaking time is over. The speaking time we have in Stortinget is not indicative. It's absolute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3338	The bottom plank in the state of law is equal to the law, and we like to think that that's the way, but I think both I and the council know that that's not true. Have a bad advice, have a much less chance of getting a right, because you simply can't afford to deal with it, whether it's against the public, or it's private or other matters. The rates of free legal aid in Norway have remained still since 2009, and now it is that if one is unsatisfied, one is too much to be able to obtain free legal aid. We have the Nav scandal in mind, and we know that here it's not just in private terms, but also to the public we can have a great need for legal help. There's a lot of money being spent by this government. Can the Council of State explain why she has not had anything to set aside for what is the bottom plan in the state of law, namely free legal aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3345	I totally disagree with the description of the representative. If you call 600 million. NOK for no money, I will deeply disagree with that. 600 million. kr is a significant amount, which is used for free legal aid every year. So it's true that there's been a lot of debate about the device on legal aid, the use of it, the scope, and who it hits, and who it doesn't hit. That's why the government put down a public sample that handed over its report to me in June, at least just before the holiday. It is now out for consultation, and pending it, we have not made any changes. It's natural to get hold of hearings, propose changes and then promote the cause of the Storting. We're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3352	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3357	The Labour Party's speakers before me have presented in a good way our budgetary option, which addresses the main challenges facing the country: getting the 200 000 unemployed back to work, combating the growing differences, strengthening well-being and cutting climate emissions in a socially equitable way. I would therefore like to say a little bit about the political image we have after the four right-wing parties came together – or were forced together by the corona pandemic, we believe the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen – about an eighth state budget. The presentation of the budget changes we were witnessed to on Tuesday night, reminded more of a divorce than a reunion. And as in some divorces, it seems as important to plague the other party as to find solutions they could agree on. We have also seen and heard that in this debate. There weren't many smiles to see during the presentation, no mood to let the Christian People's Party Jon Lilletun express in 2003, that a good budget had improved. But in 2003 it was the Workers' Party with which they made a budget agreement. It was obviously easier for the center sections. That picture was also confirmed in the Political Quarter the next day, when Siv Jensen said that the Progress Party had thoroughly completed working with the Christian People's Party, which has also been repeated in the debate today. The Prime Minister's political project, to gather the four parties on the right into a governing government, was quite thoroughly shattered Tuesday night. So it had to be a pandemic in order not also to end this bourgeois period of government with the fall of the government, as we saw in the 1960s, 1980s and 1990s. But the government basis resolved this Tuesday night. If anyone longer remembers until the fall of 2013 – then the four parties agreed on a goal of making the Norwegian economy less oil dependent. The result has been the opposite. Year after year, the Norwegian economy is becoming more and more dependent on oil revenues. More money from the oil fund is used to lubricate any compromise with the parties that have stood outside the government. Grandsister Right has been completely incapable of holding back. This time, too, the oil fund was the solution, not only to help Norwegian businesses and industries through the corona pandemic, but also to fill the income holes as the tax cuts and now the tax cuts form the revenue side of the government budget. Perhaps the most serious thing that remains after this government is that year after year it has reduced the government’s revenues – without getting people to work or being able to reduce its expenditure in a good way through conversion and renewal. For the targeted tax cuts of the country's richest, there has been no investment for more jobs in the private sector. Together with a rather violent increase in the many charges up to now, there has been a targeted policy for increasing disparities in society. There's almost something biblical about this. It is described in the Gospel of Matthew: «For him who has, and for him who has, shall have it in abundance. But he that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath. Weak groups have experienced being deprived of the support they need. There will be another legacy after this government, which is increasing differences, which is a threat to some of the most important things we should take care of in this society: the trust that is between us, in working life and in society. Increasing the differences gives a stretch in the layer. So, while the recognition of the harmfulness of growing differences is growing in more and more countries, it's got footholds in our right parties. The sad thing is that the right has got the center parts on this thinking, the parts that in their thinking really stand for something else. The striking thing about budgetary unity is that it does not at all address the key challenges we face – the 200,000 unemployed that we have to get back to work, the development of welfare services, and more to municipalities and counties. And there is little that could contribute to the cut in climate emissions, because that is not, of course, a particular concern of the Progress Party. What will remain as the legacy of this government after these years is increasing differences between people, lost opportunities to address the major challenges we are facing, a political void of fire – and a regional reform no one understands the meaning of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3382	Cut, sheep, parts. These are the three chords that must be controlling for the decade we're in now. We're going to cut greenhouse gas emissions, create new jobs, and we're going to distribute burdens and benefits in a fair way. SV has provided a budget that contributes to large emissions cuts, unlike the government. The government's forecasts show that we are in a very bad position to achieve our climate goals in 2030. The SV climate budget, on the other hand, shows how we can cut emissions in Norway by over 60 pst. By 2030, compared to what we released in 1990. Our climate budget shows how to vacuum Norway for emissions, while creating new business. However, if we are to cope with such large emissions cuts, there is a need for major changes in climate policy. We have to turn our intrusion away from the strong commitment to pumping up fossil energy that we see from today's government to bet on the zero-emission solutions. In the autumn, I have traveled around the country looking at the many opportunities that lie there for a strong commitment to an ambitious climate policy – such as cutting emissions, creating jobs, and providing the country with revenues we can use to finance the welfare state with a view to the future. One of the companies I visited was the shipyard Brothers Aa in Hyen. They are world leaders in the production of fast boats. They sell fast boats all over the world. What kind of speedboats, based on the halls of the Brothers Aa, are of great importance, not just for emissions here at home in Norway, but for emissions in many places in the world. When I asked those who work at the shipyard, what was the most important thing we could do at Stortinget to support them, was to set environmental requirements. Set environmental requirements – that was the message I got. For the Brothers Aa, zero-emission speedboats may be produced, but this will not happen if no one wants to buy these zero-emission boats. Here, the public can secure a market by making demands and by setting up money so that the states that are to renew their speedboat routes will ensure that they do so with zero-emission solutions. It will ensure that the counties can afford, in their alternative budget. Unfortunately, the commitment to zero-emission solutions in the budget unit of the Progress Party is not only too weak, it is also significantly weakened. The weak efforts of the government and the Progress Party have in their budgets in municipalities and in counties may go beyond the environmental effort to, among other things. Brothers Aa in Hyen. Instead of the fact that the zero emission of the future speedboats are produced in Hyen, they can be produced entirely elsewhere in the world. It is an incredible pity for Norwegian workplaces and Norwegian value creation. It may offer lost opportunities for Norway. And here we have an important reason why environmental requirements should be imposed, for us to cut emissions in Norway. Of course, we need to take our moral responsibility, but we also need to ensure that we have an industry and a business that the rest of the world will deal with when the world frees itself from fossil energy. If we leave to others to develop the technology, develop the zero-emission boats, the batteries, we're going to be outlawed. We're going to lose, lose jobs, and it's going to go beyond our well-being. Fortunately, the climate crisis is man-made. That means it can be solved. We have to give people hope, give people the faith that it's useful. Apathy is our greatest enemy. The Aa brothers and many others in this country are paving the way and showing that it is possible to cut emissions. For emissions to decrease, the differences must decrease, and then the government must remove.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3403	In the year we're about to leave behind, the budget we now have for treatment is very strongly influenced by the coronary situation that the country is in. And I would like to say that I think it is good that there has been a great deal of agreement – and based on professionally good advice – on the measures taken to ensure the health of the nation and the people. There's been much agreement there. I would like to point out that the Storting has also done a very important job in Koronatida. It started with the Korona Act in its time, where it was Jonas Gahr Støre who took responsibility for a draft law, I would say, which had been sent from the government, was significantly changed when it came to working time, when it applied to which laws the government could change regulations, and not least that the Storting could stop regulations. It was good political craftsmanship. Then we started getting the action packages. And the fact that the first one came a little in the hurry and the shower, after the country was quickly shut down, it is possible to have an understanding of. The package was significantly changed in Stortinget. We took care of those who go on the AAP, we made sure to improve the situation of those who are outsourced, and we made sure to strengthen the opportunities for in-house training, so that you can use a period of leave for something reasonable and get new knowledge until the day the company starts up again. There have been several packages, and it has been increasingly surprising how little and bad political craftsmanship the government has delivered. Because in the case of the packages, that part of the Corona situation, it's the Storting that's been running. And it is good that the Stortinget has managed – that we have strengthened the situation of the self-employed, strengthened the measures for travel and culture, strengthened the measures for both workers and business in a way that could have been better prepared by the government if they had been related to the social partners. Because what we've done has been very much in cooperation with them. When the government's decisions deprive people of the income base, we have to take responsibility for compensating. A very concrete example for us in Westfold is Torp Airport. There it was Sverre Myrli who made sure that the government was required to get up with funds also to the private airports in Norway. It looked away from the government and offered only to use the usual compensation schemes. Then the Stortinget ran the government one more time, and it was the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party that made sure that it was done, and that the first allocation came. Then we experienced something that's been a bit typical of this period, and that's when the majority of the population overrun the government, right-wing representatives in the locals may look like they were driving. The government travels around and takes credit for the decisions taken by the Storting despite the government's lack of proposals. I am pleased that the budget now provides additional funds for Torp, also in line with the Workers' Party's proposal for funding. We have to take responsibility for providing people with the greatest possible level of security in the unsafe situation we are in now. Then it is frightening that the government refuses to extend the period of leave. It seems that the government does not understand Norwegian working life. By this week at the latest, I had a conversation with people working for Color Line, who tell me they have three months' notice, i.e. that at Christmas they may be told that their company does not see that they can keep them as employees when the period of leave in March is over. This is what gives a hopeless planning situation for the business community and for the employees of the business community. The last thing that's amazing is that you're going to cut the economy of those who've already reduced the economy because they're going for a day's pay, by refusing them to get so-called holiday money. After all, it's a clean cut, a crown for a penny, in the employee's benefit, and we should, for shame's sake, help those who are the most vulnerable, more when we've made decisions on extra billions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3420	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3425	When the government, together with the Progress Party, now presents the state budget for 2021, it is about so much more than how much money we should spend. It's also about what kind of communities we want. Behind budget lines is an expectation and a hope of contributing to a better everyday life for people, either a cage along the coast or inland. The goal of the policy of the Right is to help each and every one of us live a good life, knowing that the most important responsibility is always with ourselves, with the inhabitants who make up these small and large communities we daily have our daily work in. Right now, it is most important to contribute to more people coming to work. Having a job is about so much more than pay. It's about opinion, well-being and community, about respect, self-confidence and faith in the future, about being able to lie down in the evening and know that tomorrow offers opportunities and not just concerns, about being able to sit around the dinner table and tell what one experienced at work today. When large parts of the budget are about more people coming to work, we also make sure that more people get a better everyday life and a better life. We facilitate the creation of jobs in several industries throughout the country. Growth must come in the private sector, because this is where the jobs have disappeared under the pandemic, and we are making it possible for business to create more green jobs that contribute to a more viable future. We who are politicians are not the best people to create jobs. It should be left to creative entrepreneurs and business people, but we can be the good organizers. We contribute to creating development, raising communities and freeing creativity. I believe in the creative power that lies in the business of the whole of Norway. I have faith that we will close, and that with this budget we have given them the wind on the road. For this reason, I was once again surprised by the blackness of the budget that is being set up for the day here today, the lack of confidence that people in all of our long country will not be able to rise again. It's not like that. On the contrary, there is a desire for action and a desire to contribute when we are now facilitating this relationship. Many rural businesses are now lacking skilled labour because they have a potential shift towards a greener and resilient industry and can sell technology into the world. Maybe we need to get a little bit more mobile, but with the expansion rate we're now on the road and the track, we're going to do it. And with the pressure we have on digitisation and broadband development, people become more flexible when it comes to where they live, where they work, and how they use the public services. With our budget, we give people back the belief that individuals can be allowed to be involved in a difference where they live, while we have a necessary safety net for those who need us the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3440	In a health crisis facing that country, health services and health authorities are being tested. The consequences are great for both people and business. Many vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, have been particularly hard hit. Six out of ten covid-19 deaths have occurred in hospitals. The average age of those who have died of covid-19 is 82 years. Nothing should be more important for the Storting, in the midst of a health crisis like this, than to prioritise resources to strengthen the public health system and provide vulnerable groups like the elderly with a good, safe and dignified supply. Sick homes need people, they need full-time settings, they need skills, they need infection protection equipment, they need structural adaptations in the infection situation – and they need to pay attention to Storting. That's not what they're getting at right now. But in our alternative budget, we're giving 3 billion priority. kr more for the municipalities and a separate order of 200 million. In particular, with a view to providing older people with better support and strengthening health care and care for the elderly during the coronary apathy. This is actually important. In a health crisis like the pandemic, it's also time to build the foundation wall in our health care system. In our budget, we propose 1.1 billion. to strengthen specialist and public hospitals. Our main priorities are emergency preparedness in local hospitals, food supply, follow-up services and ambulances, a major effort in the field of drugs and mental health both in municipalities and in hospitals, and a lift for care and medical services. There is currently no time for the privatisation of the healthcare system. Now there is no time to cut the hospital budget by increasing the requirements for efficiency, and now there is no time to cut down on the system, as the Government Party and the Progress Party have done in their budget agreement. The Central Party believes that there is now time to invest in public health, to build up national preparedness and to strengthen patient care throughout the country. The most important thing in health policy is public health policy. In Norway, there are major social health differences. They can be prevented, but then a clear public health policy is needed. The Centre Party will strengthen this policy in the budget by introducing a free fruit and green scheme for children and young people in the under-sole, schooling and physical activity. I have been told that in the budget agreement the taxes on alcohol and tobacco are reduced. But what someone has to say is that the excise duty on alcohol and tobacco that we have in Norway is part of our public health policy that other countries have envied us because he is successful. We have excise duties on alcohol and tobacco because it has to contribute to reduced use, and it can bring significant public health benefits in Norway. I'm proud that the Center Party has a responsible public health policy, and that we don't prioritise billions for cheaper alcohol and tobacco.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3455	There is no doubt that we are in a difficult time too many. I wish it had been a subject to a greater extent from more people, including from the government parties. And what do I mean when I say that? Of course, we all understand that there is a crisis, but what measures are we talking about? There is a lot of talk today about games, about what Norway is going to look like with a new government next autumn, black paint of a new government that has not yet come into place. But I realize you think that, because one thing we're obviously in agreement with in this room is that there's going to be a new government. That's got to be it. It's pretty dark for a lot of people. Although it has been announced that one must smile more, because the sun will soon rise, there is a dark time. In the part of the country I live, it's dark time. It's very dark when it's dark, but this year it's extra dark for very many. It's hard. In Tromsø it's 50 pst. more bankruptcies than last year. It's dramatic, we have to talk about that. Businesses like Brim Explorer, who makes emission-free boats, are not taken by government crisis arrangements – and he Magne in Tromsø Outdoor is extremely concerned, for all his employees are permitted, and he says that without money, without liquidity, he doesn't understand how to go about it. And soon it's Christmas. So is it nice that we talk about what's dark? It's not black paint. It's telling you what the situation actually is. Because what this is all about is people, people's lives, people who are on leave, and people who don't know what kind of summer they get, because you don't want to spend money on holiday money on those who already earn the least. The people who have a permit may have an annual income of about 300,000 kroner, and today they get less than 70 pst. of it. They go home, they don't go around and have vacations and kisses with piña colada and what's better. If you think it's a party to be home as a permit, it's not. It's bloody serious. I'm very concerned about the long-term effects of the situation of the permit holders. They cannot even be given security to ensure that they have a system of permitting. Instead, the right side spends time crying crocodile tears over property taxes and the poor people who are hit by a little extra in property taxes, but a little extra money to make sure that the summer is for children of parents who are on leave, you won't spend the time on. I would like this government to spend more time in crisis management and ensure that the crisis measures – the crisis packages – were followed as a matter of course. It had secured jobs, it had secured people's lives. But we need a new government, we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3470	I am so glad that we have now landed a budget in a period of crisis, with capacity in health services, job security and a budget that takes care of vulnerable and vulnerable people both in Norway and internationally. In addition, the Christian People's Party has had many important fanatical influences in the budget. It has been totally inappropriate for the Christian People's Party to weaken the efforts of the world's poorest. Aid is not weakened by a single crown, but is, on the contrary, secured as 1 pst. And it should just be missing in a pandemic. Assistance is to support people in their neighbourhoods, so that they can develop their own society and their own everyday lives. This week the department came with a new portal – aid results.no – which gives us detailed insight into the aid jungle. The Christian People's Party believes that assistance should be given on a targeted and specific basis to deliver the desired result. Now everyone can follow each project, so that claims can be verified and facts verified. The budget unit has several solid changes for the elderly. The Christian People's Party has added $12,000 to the previous budget. Now it's going to increase again, by $5,000. Child welfare is increased, cash support continues, one-off benefits are significantly increased – a good family budget. In addition, the leisure card scheme for children over six years of age is extended without stigmatisation of families with a weak economy. In a year when some people have cheaper drugs and drugs as policy objectives, prevention measures in the fight against drugs are unfortunately more necessary than before. The level of harm to society is high, in addition to costs, and needs to be reduced. I remember that in 2021 we also retained one of Europe's highest alcohol taxes, advertising bans and restrictive gift regulations. Now the Christian People's Party is happy with that 172 million. Dr is given for drug action under centres of excellence, 45 million. D to voluntary drug-prevention and gambling-preventive measures and in addition to 23 million. for the operation of voluntary drug policy organisations. In addition, it's 20 million. SEK to the campaign organisation Av-and-To and 18 million. kr to Akan, in order to reduce sick leave and increase efficiency and quality of life. It's also proposed 16 million. to Actis, a cooperation body in the field of drug policy. For my own part, I have to add that I am satisfied with the net pay system, the confederation of offshore ships and the agreement to have an additional proposition for the yards. A rescue car to Rennfast and the means to investigate the bridge in Egersund are important for us in Rogaland, to which the Progress Party has contributed. The Christian People's Party hopes and looks forward to a normalization of society after the Corona era. Now we are in the midst of a demanding phase to assist municipalities and communities, but we in the Christian People's Party look forward to ensuring a sustainable welfare society after the corona.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3487	The Korona situation causes many families, individuals and businesses to face an uncertain future. We see closed restaurants, a decline for the commercial industry, a travel and cultural life that is raging, and there is increased unemployment. The Government and the Progress Party shall provide a budget and compensation mechanism to meet this crisis. We're going to create more and include more. The working party chooses to send a tax bill to companies of 7 billion. kr. It is surgically designed to affect Norwegian owners of Norwegian workplaces. We're in the middle of the greatest state of economic exception our generation will experience, and so it's business that creates values that are punished. The parties spend more oil money in their government budget proposals. This is expected when Norway is in an entirely exceptional situation. We have the biggest health and job crisis we've ever experienced. What is not expected is that the Workers' Party should send a gigantic tax bill to Norwegian jobs, and those who create jobs. There won't be any more jobs. We need income to the state to increase child welfare, as we do in the budget. We need income to the state, so that we can have income-balancing measures, such as housing support, as free core time in kindergartens, as free core time in the school leisure system. We need revenues to build more roads in our long-range country. We actually have to create more, not more treasure. We've shown, and we'll continue to show that it's possible with new ideas and better solutions without giving businesses and people more tax. It is actually possible to cut health cows, contribute to more jobs in the private sector, strengthen police and defence, and almost double the use of money on the road and track across the country without burdening business with more taxes. Well, that's what it's all about. As we understand this tax arrangement, the Workers' Party, in the midst of the biggest economic crisis, will send a large bill to those who create jobs in Norway. We don't want to be in on that. Increased taxes are not Norway’s way out of the crisis — no matter who gets the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3500	The last three quarters of the year has been a long state of emergency for the world and Norway. Tens of thousands have been affected by leave, unemployment, missing order entry, missing guests, non-showing passengers, concerts cancelled – and that is how I could continue to feed by industry. Many have been in constant uncertainty since the country closed down in March, an uncertainty that could have been reduced if the government had concentrated on a more comprehensive plan ahead of the package solution – a package solution that has been driven as crises and fires have arisen. There are packages that have been late, have been too small, have been closed too early, and have not been predictable. In this way, businesses, municipalities and individuals are faced with very difficult situations, and nothing indicates that the crisis is over. The downpour will last for a long time. That's why we still need a long-term plan, even though Christmas is the time for packages. We need a plan to prevent the pandemic from spreading, we need a plan to vaccinate, and we need a plan to make sure that people, communities and businesses get the least harmful out on the other side. The Centre Party has tried to take into account in its alternative budget measures that extend far into 2021 and beyond. The criticism from the government and, in particular, the Right to the use of oil money and EEA funds has been great, and it is interesting to note that the government is now resorting to the same means of making the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party go up. So once again, Erna Solberg and the government set a different standard for themselves than for others, and at least it's starting to be more the rule than the exception. As I said, we need plans ahead of packages. We need plans to take care of travel and service activities. We need a plan to take care of the transport industry, so that we get through with at least as good infrastructure after the crisis as we had before the crisis. We need a plan to take care of the broad cultural life and, not least, the voluntary life, which today has its own day – congratulations on it, otherwise! We need a plan that gives municipalities predictability to deliver good services in school and health and in all other services that provide good communities through and after the crisis. And we all know in this room people elected around the country who are today trying to get the municipal budgets to go together. We also need a plan for fossil-green conversion, a plan that takes us from an oil- and gas-based economy to the renewable. I am pleased that the Centre Party is proposing a strong commitment to the renewable industry, including: 340 million. kr for forestry, which will strengthen industry and contribute to climate change. I am also very proud that the Central Party reiterates the proposal for a new green investment company that could have contributed to the conversion of Norwegian Forest Saugbruks from paper to composite production. Unfortunately, the Central Party is saddened by that proposal alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3521	The Coronapandemic affects society in ways and to an extent that no one had foreseen. The pandemic puts the welfare state to the test, but it also puts politicians to the test. Fear of sickness, infection and unemployment characterizes many people’s everyday lives. The human health community is making an enormous effort to prevent further spread and to treat those who have become ill. As a consequence of the pandemic and its response, many businesses and offers have partially or completely stopped. The size has adopted economic crisis packages and arrangements for businesses, so that they can cope with the crisis as best they can. The arrangements have been amended and new arrangements have been put in place as necessary. Nevertheless, the Labour Party believes that not all arrangements are as good as they are, and that the arrangements do not take care of the individual in a good enough way. Bankruptcy and temporary closures lead to increased unemployment and a large number of outsourceds. People just lose their jobs. In most cases, more than 250,000 have been without a job to go to. The pandemic affects society and the everyday life of many families, with a lack of predictability, concern for the health of themselves and others, concerns about their own work, and for the personal economy and the future. Many people are affected by this. In addition, those who are unemployed or on leave have reduced their income, which is particularly demanding for many with financial liabilities. Uncertainty is increasing, and we see that the differences in society are increasing. In the past, there has been a distinction between those who are at work and those who, for different reasons, are outside the ordinary working life. Now we see that more and more people who are working, but who, for different reasons, are on leave, are struggling financially. The economic challenges will be reinforced next year when holiday pay is not paid to the unemployed and on leave. The working party has therefore added 3.4 billion. kr in its alternative state budget for the purpose of paying holiday pay to this group. This is not about unemployed people taking leave from work; it is about the Workers' Party that all unemployed people should be able to have a safety net and a certain amount of financial predictability and income in June, so that they can have something to live off and meet their financial obligations. Norway is in an exceptional situation requiring exceptional solutions. If we're going to succeed, we still need a lot of people to do a national job. That's what those who are free do. They're out of work waiting for the pandemic to go down and society to normalize. In order for those on leave to return to work, new jobs need to be created for those who are unemployed. The Labour Party believes that it is unsocial and unreasonable that those who are unemployed due to the closure of society should take as much financial responsibility as the government and the Progress Party assume by refusing this group holiday money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3537	The budget agreement certainly has a good budget for our pensions. Lone minimum pensioners will get NOK 5000 more in retirement from New Year's. That's the fourth time this group has had an extra increase under the Solberg government. In the past, single minimum pensioners have been credited with $4,000 in three rounds. It is a priority task for the Christian People's Party to strengthen this group, also with the background that the pension is lower than the poverty line in Norway. Minimum pensioners are mainly women – eight out of nine are women – so this initiative is also a women's political boost. It is therefore gratifying to see that individual minimum pensioners have increased the pension by a total of NOK 17 000 since 2016. All old-age pensioners, as a result of the budget agreement, will have a new regulation from 2021. The social security scheme shall be calculated on the basis of the average wage and price growth. This shall ensure that old-age pension schemes do not lose purchasing power compared to wage earners. The Christian People's Party is busy that older people should have a worthy old age with a sedentary financial framework. Next year's government budget is committed to ensuring that those with the least promise the greatest. There is a great deal of joy out there in private kindergartens that the budget agreement has resulted in a $215 million pledge. SEK to cover pension costs and SEK 135 million. kr to capital increase. We need private kindergartens to get full babysitting. In addition to capacity considerations, we also see the need for shortages. On measurements of general satisfaction, private kindergartens are cutting high. The budget agreement means that private kindergartens are secure operations in the future. Together with parental, capital and pension contributions, they'll be all right. The Christian People's Party will support the important job done by the private kindergartens, and will encourage more than 92 pst. of the children of Norway go to kindergarten. Half of these go to private kindergartens, so we are pleased that the budget agreement gives the private kindergartens security and good governance in the coming year. Joyful feedback flows from kindergartens around the country. From Løveparken Kindergarten in Øygarden municipality, this message came on Tuesday, after the state budget was presented: Hurra – this was very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3550	At times of alarm and storm, Norway is a safe haven. We have little differences and trust between people, a solid oil fund that keeps our country indebted, and a steady government that relieves us safely through the crisis. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left have 16 budget units in addition to the crisis packages. Civil cooperation is solid. We have steered Norway safely through an oil price drop. Now we're going to take Norway safely out of the coronary crisis. The government has always been clear that we're going to stand up for people and business. For this reason, we have put in place strong measures, and since April, the unemployment rate has been more than halved. That's good. At the same time, it is still demanding for many. That's why, in the future, we also need to give priority to the most important thing: getting people to work. That's why we're proposing more than $9.8 billion in the state budget. kr for industrial research and innovation. This is why we prioritise the instruments through Innovation Norway and Enova, and that is why we ensure a competitive tax level, so that businesses can invest, create new products and change. The government's historical commitment to transport is also important in keeping people in work now and strengthening the competitiveness of the future. The road maintenance process is going down, and in the budget unit we are strengthening the effort further. Let me do two examples of that. Eigerøy bru is the only access route for thousands of residents and jobs on Eigerøy in the municipality of Eigersund. Unfortunately, the bridge is narrow and weak, dangerous to traffic and a bottleneck, preventing important national industry and the yard of Aker Solutions. We can't have it like that, so we're now securing planning resources for the project. The inhabitants of Finnøy and Rennesøy also have reason to rejoice after the budget agreement. Repeatedly they have experienced that the tunnel they depend on has been closed for a long time because of different events. Now they get a rescue car right by and can look forward to a road that is more open. Tomatoes and salmon need to get to the market more quickly and jobs need to be secured. In the Right, we prioritise the most important thing first: getting people to work. The government has led Norway through crises before, and now we're going to do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3567	We're in a crisis. An outbreak of infection has paralyzed us in both the work and the way we live. This results in a large impact, for example: in kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, post schools, colleges, universities, universities and other places where you work with people and skills. To avoid infection, we all have to contribute. In the dark and murky, as we approach the darkest day of the year, many do all they can to ensure that the consequences of infection protection are not too serious. Teaching is demanding for students, teachers, professors and students alike. I believe many people feel that they are more alone about those tough problems than they should have done. All the way, we've been promised by the government that any additional consumption in connection with the coronary apathy will be compensated. I think we'll never get compensated for the price that people pay. Students and students who will go to the exam even if the teaching has not been optimal, or teachers and teachers who go to work even if they feel that it is unsafe can sign it. The centre party wants to bet on all the professionals standing on the first line. There have been too many reporting and filling requirements. Trust must go back, whether it's for health care professionals, teachers or others. We have to trust that people want to do a good job. We need less bureaucracy. The centre party will further invest a lot more in municipalities and county municipalities than the government. This ensures that we get more hands and heads in the first line – more professionals who can do the great job that is needed to carry out statutory tasks and to follow up students and others in a good way. The budgets of the municipalities are tight despite the fact that the state budget has never been bigger. Large words in Stortinget help little locally when temporary workers, assistant teachers and social workers lose their jobs. The previous speaker from the Right mentioned the cooperation on the right as a bottom-solid and boasted of reduced unemployment. None of the claims keep water when we have seen how the cooperation and preparation of the budgetary agreement has progressed and how the corona pandemic has affected the labour market. The mood out there is sad, and I am happy that we have finally lit our first advent light and are approaching Christmas. The budget and the reconciliation of the government parties and the supporting party The Progress Party is presenting in the Stortinget, do not respond to the needs out there. The central party will have a corona plan, which will increase predictability, and bet on the municipal sector and higher education throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3583	There are many that are affected in different ways by the times of crisis we are now facing. Some of what I know most about myself is all the thousands of workers who work outdoors and cultural life, and who are now in the middle of a «lockdown» similar as it was in March, but who do not get the emergency aid they received during the spring «lockdown». Bars and club scenes go bankrupt because they have to stay closed, or because their guests stay at home, while the government's crisis aid is waiting. This affects young people in particular. On Tuesday 195 800 people were registered in full or in part unemployed and jobseekers at Nav. There are people under the age of 30 who now account for the deciduous majority of the unemployed. What makes me so frustrated is how these companies' and these employees' crisis situations are not treated with the same gravity as if they had been industrial jobs or other industries. When thousands of jobs are at risk in a yard, politicians are constantly – rightly – but when tens of thousands of jobs in cultural and outdoor life are at risk, the government parties are taking their time to do so. But these are also important businesses for the country. Here are tens of thousands of jobs, here are people who have their life works, here are companies that create diversity and life in cities and our cities, serious actors that can be replaced by the big foreign-owned French people very quickly. It's not just about the big cities. I'm going to meet crisis-capped businesses at home in Eastfold tomorrow, companies like the Glenghuset in Sarpsborg and Magenta in Old Town in Fredrikstad. These are good examples of who is struggling now and not getting the help they need — companies that provide important jobs, which contribute to both the outdoors and cultural life of their communities. There are small-stage serve points, which provide more diversity and breadth to the local cultural offer. They have a very clear message: they need compensation now. Compensation must be based on lost turnover, they need predictability of an extended leave scheme and they must be included in the crisis aid for cultural life. If it is Blue in Oslo or Glenghuset in Sarpsborg, they can quickly be replaced by Starbucks or O’Learys if it continues as it is now, and then diversity disappears.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3593	The government turns the deaf ear to, but SV listens. We are proposing the reinforced crisis aid they are asking for, because we believe that there are also important jobs for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3596	In the days following the presentation of the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party, it has been interesting to follow the media coverage. Conflict-hungry journalists chose to focus on the question of who is most disappointed and frustrated after the settlement. The few are surprised that the press once again chooses to focus on the content of the conflict in a budgetary settlement between a minority government and an opposition party. Nevertheless, it is a pity that media coverage so unilaterally follows that trail. The truth is that the budgetary agreement that was reached on Tuesday also contains good political craftsmanship, where the negotiators of the respective parties have agreed on important industrial policy initiatives. I am very pleased that the Government Parties and the Advance Party have agreed on a budgetary agreement which means a strong commitment for the maritime industry, the main point of which is an increase in the allocation of 611 million to the net pay system for seafarers. kr. This avoids cuts in the 2021 scheme. In addition, there is agreement to remove the maximum level in the premium model for petroleum ships in the north, NIS structural ships and NIS in general for the first, second and third semesters of 2021. It is also very good news for short sea shipping and for the municipalities of Vanylven and Stadt that there is 75 million in the budget agreement. kr for starting work with the City Tunnel. Furthermore, the Government Parties and the Advance Party have agreed to extend the Innovation Norway Scheme for the Condensation of Ships in Short Sea Shipping to Offshore Ships. At the same time, the scheme will be strengthened by 150 million. kr. There is also agreement to extend the building loan guarantee scheme in GIEK to cover advance guarantees, so that GIEK can provide advance guarantees of up to 50 pst. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I am pleased with the consensus reached on these points. Start-up work on the realization of City Ship Tunnel is also important for increasing maritime safety in the part of the country I represent, as well as providing positive ring-effects and significantly improved maritime communication for the district municipalities of the City. I would like to pay tribute to the Progress Party for putting all of these matters high on the agenda when the budget negotiations started. It has been very important to have a budgetary agreement now in place with a strong boost for maritime industry. So it's always like there's two sides to negotiation. As the only representative of the Maritime County of More and Romesdal in the Business Committee, I have seen it as my task to use the internal channels against the Christian People's Party's government apparatus and negotiators, to help bring the negotiating climate around these important issues onto a good track. The result now available is very good news for the maritime industry, not least in my home country. The government has also proposed a compensation scheme of 480 million. kr for quarantine costs of enterprises that are dependent on contracted non-resident labour force, such as: is very important for a crisis-affected paint industry. Overall, these measures are a strong signal that the four parties are taking the challenges of the maritime industry most seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3615	Municipalities are also in the midst of a crisis. I do not think I have heard one word from any of the government parties or from the Progress Party today about this. It's miles from the secure government offices to the worn-out employees, the worn-out relatives and people in crisis who need help. That is why SV has given priority to the municipalities before, and we are now giving priority to them in the crisis. If it's ever important that the municipalities have good finances, it's now, because it's the municipalities that are the basic plan of security in everyday life. That's where they turn when something's difficult. It is those who are to take care of the children who are to have both home and school education. They are the ones who must take care of those who are sick and those who have difficulties. Weeks and months have gone by where both relatives and patients have now had to wait because their infection protection requires their own. Why don't you think that you should put more money on the table for the municipalities quickly, so that they could at least hire where it was possible to take these important jobs? All the way, from the beginning of the crisis in Norway, Stortinget has had to push forward increased appropriations for the municipal sector. The government has come limping after, and it is noticed in the municipalities now. Now one sits in local government and cuts in mental health interventions for the most disadvantaged, and they do because they have the ROBEK ghost hanging over them. The cuts are forced forward, and I cannot hear from anyone here that this has been on the table in the negotiations that have been. Even for particularly resource-intensive services, the government has found it right to cut off this year too: not one penny of user-driven personal assistance, for which we know there are alarming differences and great needs, nor to start a universal design roadmap in schools. What has been envisaged after the presentation of this budget? There are no measures to take any steps to make this society equal for people with disabilities? I'm disappointed. SV chooses to spend the large amount of money in our budget in the community, to secure the school, to secure those in need of care, to secure child protection and also to ensure that municipalities have some money in the register, so that they can operate maintenance and keep jobs going in the private sector as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3628	A long time ago, we finally got a deal. What's certain about this agreement is that this year, too, there will be more to those who have a lot of time already. There will be privatisation of well-being and an even more unsafe working life. The world is in the middle of a pandemic. People are afraid, they're lonely and worried about their future. Others are tired, many are unemployed or ill. The statements made after this budgetary agreement are not at all concerned about their concerns. Dry drivers, cleaners and workers in the transport industry are all exposed to social dumping and have suffered poorer pay and working conditions. When a state-owned company aims to increase its competitiveness by employing Eastern Europeans to $30 an hour, when defence or railway cleaners have to pay less and lose pension rights because the service is to be privatised, when the taxi industry is liberalised, so that, after a 16-hour increase, taxi drivers do not have a full daily wage, the consequence of government policies is a more unsafe working life. This government has now cut our welfare by 14.3 billion. kr and calls it red tape. I call it less well-being and more privatisation. More directors and high management salaries are not building this country. It's the workers who do. The Labour Party believes it is now the turn of the workers. We want to cut off the purchase of consultants and replace it with regular employment. We want services near people. We don't want a layman's society. We want to secure workers and give them the dignity back. The Labour Party believes that we should now build on the crisis that has shown us – the value of our community, a strong public well-being for everyone and strong trust and solidarity for each other. We will give workers decency, equivalency and community. They're the ones who build our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3639	Over the last nine months, government parties and the Progress Party have done their best to unload Norway through the crisis. Unfortunately, the pandemic is not over, and the effort to ensure that businesses survive, so that as many as possible have a job to go to by 2021, and to provide security for all citizens of the country continues with great strength. The right, together with the Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, will, through this budget, facilitate a sustainable and forward-looking business throughout the country. Throughout the pandemic, the government has been very clear that we are going to set up for the municipalities. We have done so through several financial action packages. So far, the municipal sector has been transferred 17.4 billion. to compensate for increased costs and reduced revenues and to help relaunch the wheels. In addition, economic estimates show that wage and price growth is likely to be lower in 2020 than estimated in the State budget. It will provide the local government with an increased space for action of about 9.1 billion. kr. The government is suggesting that the municipal sector retains the entire increased space for action. In the middle of this pandemic, the Centre Party chooses to present a draft budget as a kutter in the regional centre grant to many municipalities. With the draft budget of the Central Party, the Central Party's own rapporteur in Inner Eastfold will receive approx. 6.4 million. a reduction in the use of good welfare services for their inhabitants. For my own municipality, Nordre Follo, it means a cut of approx. 7.5 million. kr. In Aurskog-Høland they will have a cut at the top of 4.5 million. kr. And there's not only municipal budgets here in the Eastern Central Party want to cut in, they will also cut in 5.5 million. SEK in Molde, 7.8 million. SEK in Sandefjord, SEK 4.9 million. NOK 5 million in Lindesnes. SEK in Steinkjer, 4.8 million. SEK in Narvik, SEK 4.3 million. kr at Senja – just to mention someone. Oslo's budget, on the other hand, wants to increase the centre party. With the proposal of the Centre Party, Oslo will increase its population grant by more than 26 million. kr. This is a signal from the Central Party that the municipalities across the country should notice. And, yes – as the representative Myrvold from the Center Party said: we know all the municipal politicians who are struggling to get the budgets to go together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3650	I registered that the Workers' Party's representatives Myrseth and Aasland tried wholeheartedly to criticise the maritime package in the budget agreement. I cannot, with my best will, see what they are criticising, especially after I have checked the Workers' Party's alternative budget. It is proposed to remove the ceiling of the net pay scheme for offshore ships for the 1st and 2nd semester 2021. We remove the 3rd term roof as well, and we also remove the NIS roof. So we deliver better than the Working Party on the net pay scheme. We'll secure 150 million. kr to off-shore ship wreckage arrangement. That's 50 million. kr more than the Working Party proposes. We also got by extending the building loan guarantee in GIEK. It did not even include the Workers' Party in its proposal. The representative Myrseth quoted from an article in E24 three weeks ago to criticise the maritime package that came two days ago. It's got to be pretty fluffy. The representative should have updated the media image after the presentation of the maritime package. Recent headlines leave no doubt. Here we can read: ‘The Maritime Forum commends FrP unreservedly for the budgetary conciliation.’ From Sunnmørsposten: ‘Frp deserves to boast about this.’ From FreeProfessional Movement: ‘Now the seafarers praise Frp.’ So the superlatives have been hailing the impact of the Advance Party on maritime nutrition. The media image following the presentation of the budgetary agreement is largely positive and the Progress Party is hailed for the results. As mentioned, the sailors are cheering. In addition, the Entrepreneur’s Association – Construction and Construction Jubilee. MEF is cheering. NHO cheers. Real cheers. Private kindergartens cheer. The pensioners are cheering. The business associations are cheering. Travel life cheers. Visit Svalbard cheers. The Naprapats are cheering. Osteopate cheers. The snowmobile and MC people are cheering. Car charges were cut instead of being increased. Substantial cuts are made in taxes and charges. The transport budget is increasing considerably, so we're going to know the smell of asphalt all over the country, which most people know as a clear Progress Party stamp. ‘A historical approach to contributing to more jobs in Norway’ — there is a comment that goes back to most media after the conciliation. The list is inexhaustible, but because I only have 3 minutes available, I choose to stop here to draw out a moment that I think is very enjoyable. The Finnland race is a well-established brand and has developed a unique position as one of the world's most demanding and popular dog races. There is a high potential for further profiling and nutrient development with the Finnland cycle as a catalyst, especially in the tourism industry. As a finnmarking, I am very pleased and pleased that the Progress Party got a pass to grant 2.5 million. kr to this project. Finally, the budget agreement is a very good budget to help secure and create new Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3678	The corona pandemic has caused a serious setback for the Norwegian economy and has led to many becoming unemployed or out of work. Nearly 200,000 are now on leave queue at Nav. Our most important task, according to life and health, is to make sure that people get to work and that leisure doesn't get stuck. A company that has experienced the economic consequences of the pandemic is the corner stone company Figjo AS, a traditional porcelain factory in almost 80 years. When the country was shut down on 12 March, orders from both the home and the rest of the world came to an abrupt end, and almost 90 pst. by the staff were permitted. A crisis group of approx. 10 employees have kept the wheels running. The rest has been largely licensed and licensed in the last nine months. One of these is Egil. For the first time in his 30 years of working life, he has been on leave. In addition, the spouse is also on leave. As he says himself, now the whole life has stopped, and I just feel it's getting worse. It's hard on the psyche. It is heartwarming to hear how demanding everyday life has become for Egil and the many thousands around the country who have been permised or terminated. If the period of leave is not extended, the consequence for those on leave at Figjo AS will be that they will be without a job until spring. On top of this, they will not get paid holiday money either. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is essential that workers and businesses be given the security of the safety net for the duration of the pandemic. The Labour Party listens to and prioritises ordinary workers. That is why, in our alternative state budget, we are proposing the extension of important schemes for businesses and employees, including the period of leave, and we are reintroducing the holiday supplement into the daily allowance. While the Labour Party prioritises ordinary workers, with the support of the Progress Party, the right-wing government continues to give priority to tax cuts for the richest. Even in times of crisis, great tax cuts are for those with the greatest wealth, more important to the Right and the Advance Party than giving ordinary workers security and predictability in everyday life. After seven years of budgetary cooperation between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, this priority may not be very surprising. What surprises me, on the other hand, is that the depositor from Right, Heidi Nordby Lunde, mentions our proposal to give holiday money to the unemployed and to leave as co-co-ko. If the Right considers this expression to be appropriate to proposals that provide the safety and financial predictability of ordinary workers, and that ensure that they can afford to take their kids on vacation next year, I live well with being a little co-ko.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3695	In the Progress Party, we were shocked by the government's proposal for a government budget. I am thinking in particular about private kindergartens. I sat in the hall, I saw that it was Finance Minister Jan Tore Sanner who put it out, I heard that it was Jan Tore Sanner who put it out, but the message that came out might as well have been said by President Moxnes from Red. In the autumn, the government has pushed several poison arrows into the private kindergartens, with proposals for cutting pension subsidies, cutting capital subsidies and proposals to amend the legislation on loans in the House Bank. After two heavy years of tight economy for private kindergartens, they have done their job to meet the staffing standard, but the consequence has been that four out of ten kindergartens have gone through a deficit. Even more so this year, because of the coronary situation. The private kindergartens looked forward to lowering their shoulders and getting a rest year in 2021, where instead of having to turn on each crown, they could spend more of their time on what they like best to do, which is to be with the children and take care of them. Towards 2021 they saw the light at the end of the tunnel, but it turned out to be an opposite train. The government's cut proposals generate an commitment that I haven't experienced from parents and employees. A few weeks ago, there were 1,000 kindergartens that had morning action and protested against the cuts. They fear the quality, that this would lead to a poorer supply for the young: fewer purchases of toys and food, less maintenance, fewer temporary workers, new and worse pensions for employees and, in the worst case, that kindergartens would have to shut down, and that tens of thousands of children would stand without a kindergarten. Without the involvement of parents and employees, I think 2021 had been the beginning of the end of the sector and the work that was started in 2003. The progress party is very proud of the kindergarten agreement 17 years ago, which was a collaboration between SV and the Progress Party that ensured that private and public kindergartens should be treated in the same way, and that we got a massive expansion of private kindergartens, which provided full childcare. Our party leader, Siv Jensen, was the pediatric concordant's mother in 2003. Fortunately, she was going to negotiate with the government by 2020. She has won on behalf of the Advance Party with full success. We are now going to reverse the cuts in pension and capital subsidies, we are not going to change the law on loans in the House Bank, and a sample is going to look at the financing of private kindergartens in a whole. Now the parents can breathe. Employees can spend less time in 2021 worrying about everyday life and more time on what they like and can best, which is giving kids a meaningful everyday life and spending their time on them. Then we get to hope that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right do not spend their time in 2021 planning new attempts to exacerbate the daily life of private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3709	The government is constantly pointing out that they are engaged in building their policies on an effective use of Community resources. Although the government is paying for transport in the 2021 budget with an increase of 20 p.m., the government's priorities have a clear impact. The U.S. Council of Hareide points out that this increase largely covers past exceedances of several tens of billions. The Director of Bane NOR says that there is no money in this year's budget for maintenance measures outside the Central East region, although we have measures that can be implemented quickly. Transport challenges in districts are simply not being taken seriously. The Central Party specifies that NTP is a plan for Norway as a whole and that this must be reflected in the annual budgets. There needs to be a strong commitment to racial protection, road network bottlenecks removal, rail crossings, freight terminals, ports and fairways, ferry services, the development of district broadband coverage and mobile networks along transport years. We see very little of that in this year's budget. Trucks with drivers who can barely afford the rest of their lives continue to drive on worn-out highways and highways. The electrification of the railway is at stake. Parts of the fast route are carried away with a pen stroke, and the airlines are struggling without being allowed to participate in the general compensation scheme of which other companies benefit. The municipalities are ready for an active counter-cyclical policy, as we have done when other crises have hit the country, but they are fed with buttons and glossy images when they themselves say they are ready to contribute to the crisis. Many of the people who want to build the country are commuters – people who live around each hook and travel where the work takes place. They're flexible, they're on, and they're making sure the country's built meters by foot. They'll probably get less money in the wallet once in a while. The party strongly regrets the fact that over the years the government has made the commuting worse. In the Central Party we are once again clear in our budget that this extra burden should have been saved for the commuters. Many are already struggling with long journeys, a burden that is exacerbated by inadequate collective provision and a lack of good transitions between car and public transport. In order to ensure the functioning of living and working areas, it is necessary to give a completely different priority to the needs of commuters than at present. Finally, I just want to mention that we have some mountain government in Norway that manages the general government. They have repeatedly asked for a small shard so that they could do this in a good way. So once again, you can't afford to give 5 million to mountain guides. kr in the year’s budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3728	With eight successive budgetary units, the bourgeois parties show that, although the negotiations are sometimes tough, we are able to agree on important measures to take Norway strengthened out of the corona crisis that we are now facing. The direction of policy is important, and we agree on this as well. We're helping to build the country. We're betting on transportation, we're increasing the promotion of business and for us who live along the coast. We reduce taxes, we make better changes that equip us for the future, and we invest: we invest in people, we invest in knowledge and early efforts, and we contribute to raising vocational training, to mention something – together with an increase in research and development of 50 pst. since we got a government change in 2013. This makes Norway stronger in meeting new challenges. It is gratifying that our consensus contributes to further strengthening the knowledge budget, and in sum we see that the whole of Knowledge Norway has served very well in almost two periods with a non-socialist majority in the Storting. We have strengthened the quality and content of kindergartens, increased early school efforts, contributed to more teachers with depression, gained a major boost in vocational training – also at a higher level – and got several thousand additional places to study, while building student housing as never before. We've promised the student economy, and we've made it easier to be a full-time student. Then we must not forget the research effort, which also beats the record, and where we are taking increasing place internationally with our environments. The starting point is therefore good for Knowledge Norway, and it helps us meet the future better rusted than in many years. So the arrows are pointing up, and we want more. On the left side of the policy, however, there is a gap in different directions — but they can agree on increased taxes and the fight against private kindergartens and others that contribute to the quality and diversity of Knowledge Norway. It seems as if you are more concerned with completing national tests, lowering the requirements, etc. rather than ensuring knowledge of school and school. Several career paths for teachers are also removed with a pen stroke. That's a lot. But on the way into an election year, voters and we parents should notice the political course, when the left-hand side takes us in the completely wrong direction in this important field of knowledge. In the right we will continue the bet, and we will include the many warm hands and wise heads out there in the diversity of people who are engaged in the growth of our children and for Knowledge Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3745	For the eighth year, the four bourgeois parties agreed on a budget for the country. There may have been some disagreements, but it nevertheless shows us that cooperation is solid – in contrast to what we see on the left, where we do not agree on the most important steps, nor on the way Norway should take. The State budget will take Norway out of the crisis and help solve the long-term challenges facing us. The government has defined five clear priorities. One of them is getting people back to work; another is including more. It's not easy to bring the content of the Workers' Party's new tax policy, but I've come to realize that it means at least an increased tax burden of 7 billion. kr, which is more or less surgically designed to affect Norwegian workers’ owners. It is also not easy to understand what the Workers' Party believes about the level of fees and, in particular, taxes on typical border products. Our co-representative from Østfold, Stein Erik Lauvås, has been running around for a long time and has said that now the fees have to be reduced. So first came the draft of the game program, without this being drawn out. Then came their alternative budget, without this being mentioned. So we heard today in Political Quarter that the party leader was under attack on the finance minister so that the Right could be involved in reducing these charges. I must acknowledge that I trust more in the draft programme of the Workers' Party, the alternative budget and the party leader than in my good colleague on the Eastfold bench. What the government and the Progress Party are doing now is to present a border-trade package of 3.4 billion. kr, which abolishes the levy on chocolate and sugar confectionery and reduces the charges on non-alcoholic beverages, snuffs, wine and beer. According to the SSB's number, Northmen traded for 16 billion. kr on day trips abroad last year, and in view of this, a reduction of 3.4 billion. KR significant. A report funded by the Finnish Food Administration found that permanent withdrawals of border trade could form the basis for up to 8,200 new jobs in Norway. Many of these will be in the food industry. The tax reduction in the budget will therefore ensure and contribute to more jobs for which many are qualified, and my local REMA 1000 buyer Rune is probably one of many who will contribute to this. The head of the NHO says the state budget shows the way out of the crisis. Both asset tax cuts and significantly lower taxes on border products are important for businesses all over the country, he says. And I want to be clear that Norway's most important asset is not oil, but people who go to work, and that lays the government's budget on the foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3764	I think everyone in this room wants to stand behind a budget that helps to pull Norway out of the crisis and secure Norway's jobs. But what I think stands out in the position's draft budget is that one has the ability to look forward and continue to work towards the important goal that this government has set itself, namely to create more jobs, to get the economy to stand on, and to continue to work to include more people in the world of work. The right has long considered that a disproportionate tax on Norwegian ownership will not benefit the economy in the long term. It is true that enterprises do not have to pay taxes on wealth, but if the owner has to pay dividends to pay a tax on his ownership, it makes sense that it is a disadvantage for the company in competition with similar enterprises with foreign owners. The construction industry is perhaps the sector in Norway that is most vulnerable to competition from abroad. The effect of taxes on wealth is that enterprises need to adapt their business model in order to avoid taxes. When I google “leasing plant machinery”, I get 75 000 hits on Norwegian websites in half a second. It pays to pay dearly to leasing financial institutions compared to owning the life base of the enterprise itself. Now I was not going to use my post to talk about property taxes, but I was provoked when the Workers' Party rejected this tax in cash and that it did not affect companies or employees. This is the price we pay for what the Workers' Party and Jonas Gahr Støre call a fairer Norway and a stronger state – that companies take the money out of the company and are forced to reduce their assets by putting money back in financial institutions. It creates a terribly complex corporate structure and creates a market for financial services that only strengthens banks and financial institutions. I do not know whether this is the consequence of a deliberate policy of the Workers' Party, but the policies they pursue are part of supporting it, and they should be aware of that. Furthermore, I have to say that it is these companies that are going to create the working life of the future. It's these companies that have to include more and create more. And it's these companies that are going to take risks in an uncertain time. Is this a fair Norway – that foreign owners should have better conditions? The reason why I ask myself this question is that the Workers' Party in its budget wants to set up an increase of 7.2 million. kr that, with surgical precision, just hits the Norwegian ownership. Do not the fair Norway of the Workers' Party need people who make their private capital available to invest in industrial development and jobs? Here I believe the Right stands out, and that is good for Norway. For a tax increase, the last Norwegian business and Norwegian owners are in need right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3781	Now it's the turn of the workers. There are workers who keep the wheels going in our society, both in everyday life and in such special times that we have experienced in the last few months. It's the workers who create the security for all of us. Nevertheless, we see that the right-wing government is consistently trying to collect more of our country's money at the hands of the richest. When we shut down our country, they called it a good deal, but when it comes to it, and we see the important priorities to be done here in the Stortinget, it's those who have already paid the highest price, which is going to have to suffer in the year that comes. It's our people who are now on leave, or even totally unemployed, who will be deprived of income for the summer. In a situation that is already under pressure, it will be difficult to get the ends to meet when, on the contrary, we need family safety and to get the wheels back on track in business. That says a lot. We see the same thing in the health field where the government tried to increase the excess. As much as 1 million Norwegians would get increased excesses for the necessary health care. The working party is crystal clear: no, it shouldn't be more expensive to be sick. A good common health offer that everyone can afford in our country is one of the jewels of the social democratic Norwegian welfare state. That's why we're very clear, and as mentioned in the previous article, we need a fairer Norway that values the job that ordinary workers do, which gives security to both them and the families for a demanding time. Those who have sacrificed the most in the year that has passed shall also be guaranteed income in the year to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3790	The alternative budget of the Central Party contributes to a fairer distribution between different groups and not least between different parts of the country. The budgetary agreement between the right-wing government and the Progress Party on the state budget and the preliminary crisis package for 2021 continues a budgetary policy that goes in the wrong direction in terms of sharing social goods and putting the whole of Norway into operation. Uncertainty continues. The municipal economy of the times, claims the government. This must be due to a lack of Internet coverage from Norway to the government quarter. It's hoping that maybe it'll get better when the new one is in place. The fact is that the claim is not correct when we start to look at individual municipalities and individual states. People live in all the municipalities and communities, where they have their kindergartens, their school and their health services. They experience something else. In fact, municipalities are getting their already tight economic space reduced by several hundred million with the budget agreement. It means worse services to people – in the midst of a crisis. The right-wing government and the support party The Progress Party is proposing to increase the differences geographically and socially. They do not provide the necessary security, and they do not provide equal opportunities for all municipalities and counties to provide good services to the inhabitants. So the government and the Progress Party won't even out. That's the opposite of what we in the Center Party add up to our alternative proposal. The reason is that the Centre Party recognises the challenges and difficult decisions that many local politicians from all parties have to take in these days when the next year's budget for the municipalities is to be created. We therefore deliver on what we have announced in ours, and more to – in fact significantly more. Not many weeks ago, studies showed that half of the contractors have significantly lower order servers than at the same time last year. 15 pst. they plan terminations. The public sector will, in a period of crisis, be able to contribute, through an active counter-cyclical policy, to the mitigation of this case as we now see, and through the safe workplaces and businesses, while at the same time ensuring the necessary public investment and maintenance. One of the successes of past crises has been the active use of the public sector. That's not what the government wants anymore. The centre party believes it is unwise to wait. That is why we are proposing a strong 2,7-billion-billion-dollar corona package. NOK to the municipalities and counties, which they can use to ensure activity in addition to the general reinforcement that we also propose, of SEK 4.6 billion. kr. It would give a common promise for our well-being with new schools, county roads and other maintenance. In particular, it will give the construction industry required orders to create security and improve conditions for business. Strong measures are needed to help ensure people's daily lives and Norwegian jobs. Unfortunately, that will not be the government and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3807	Earlier in the debate, Prime Minister Solberg said that this budget is an extension of the seven preceding. It is the budget that points out the line for Norway in the coming years, said the Norwegian Prime Minister. Of course, it is in many ways natural for the Prime Minister to say such things and express himself that way. The question that follows in the extension of that statement is, what is the main line of what we see? It is that through this budget we see a continuation and a strengthening of the biased distribution of society's value creation, and that the documented inequality that we clearly see is detrimental to the stability of society and therefore also to future production. That's the answer to what the Prime Minister himself says. This is completely unnecessary, for Norway is so rich in money that, with proper political will and proper political governance, this development could have been avoided in 2020. And on top of that, this line continues at a time when Norway is in a particularly critical situation. Therefore, there is reason to state, in the extension of what our Prime Minister has said, that the development of inequality is a misguided political act. That's what the Solberg government's political legacy is. The right has become more and more liberalistic. The progress party has always been the money people's party. But the amazing thing is that over the year and today the Christian People's Party and the Left are on their way, standing behind the right parties here in this Chamber and forming a majority documenting development as described. The Political Spokesman of the Christian People's Party, Storehaug, tried earlier today to defend himself in terms of immigration policy and tightening up but, of course, failed, and in terms of the reduction in taxes on alcohol and snuff and other goods, but, of course, failed to do so. Why couldn't he? No, it's because of course it's not possible to defend, from the Christian People's Party's point of view. The situation we can see in this debate is that we have a government where the coalition partners are unable to answer for themselves. They point to the Progress Party – it is the fault of the Advance Party. And what does the Progress Party say? They are happy that they no longer have anything to do with the Left and Christian People's Party. This is the parliamentary basis of the Solberg Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3820	Student life 2020 has been demanding for many. The Coronapandemic has placed heavy restrictions on education, on social life and not least on economics. The working party has always asked the government to pay attention to the vulnerable situation of the students. High-ranking applicants from before became more with increasing unemployment and leavencies. Part-time and summer jobs disappeared in a difficult labour market. When the government in our country wanted students only to be offered more loans as a crisis aid, the Workers' Party helped to convert parts of the support into scholarships, and the Stortinget put in 1 billion. kr to it. In June, the Workers’ Party asked for continued crisis support because we feared that students with a weak economy would fall away. The government said no to it. The state council asked the students to seek social assistance. The representative of Kolberg was concerned that this inequality could have been avoided. Let me hang the bell on the cat in a situation here. This is the recipe for social inequality, for turning your back on those who have at least before in a crisis. Seven out of ten students say they can't study without the income of part-time jobs. Every third student says that they have received financial assistance from their parents or family members during the crisis. What about those who don't have family in their back? In the so-called regrouping proposition, the government is now proposing to redispatch 610 million. kr. In plain text, this means that the government is withdrawing more than half of the billion spent by the Stortinget on crisis support for the students, without bringing any new solution to the students. We in the Workers' Party are strongly critical of this, but it just doesn't matter. It's possible that it's hard for right-wing people to realize that those who really need support can be the same as those who work hard to make extra loans, but it's time to realize that government loan-based support didn't hit the target audience. At the same time, we know that the problems for the students are still completely present, and we have to assume that they will have a certain duration. No one believes that the economic crisis is going to go away, as if by a spell immediately we have the vaccine coverage in place. So far, the government has failed its responsibility for good enough support schemes for the students under the pandemic. That is why the Labour Party is asking the Government to plan crisis support for students this spring as well and we hope that we will receive support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3841	When the corona pandemic hit Norway to the full in March, it was thrown into a crisis that has hit people, businesses and the economy hard. Hundreds of thousands of people have experienced getting a permit from their jobs, and many have had to apply for a daily allowance for the first time. Throughout the crisis, the population and business have been in a very difficult situation. The priority and main focus of the SV in its work on crisis packages has always been that we need to help and provide security – both for each individual and to secure jobs. As the government did not provide good enough arrangements to provide financial security for the lay-off, unemployed and sick in our company, SV went into the rush to get the Stortinget to grips. That's why we put in place more social and powerful crisis packages, which have given more rights to daily allowances and prevented those with low incomes from paying the bill for the crisis. Important social impact in the treatment of crisis packages has been the agreement on a higher rate of daily allowances and lower income requirements in order to receive daily allowances. This has ensured that even those with the lowest incomes have something to live on through the crisis and that more have been compensated for a higher proportion of their income. Self-employed and freelancers have been an important group to compensate for, and do not have the same rights as other workers. In the autumn, the government went in to wind up many of the temporary compensation schemes, despite the fact that the crisis is not over. On the contrary, many now work even more because all of the reserves from in ours have been used up. SV has provided an alternative budget that would take workers and businesses safer through the crisis. Norway needs a new government – a red-green government, not a centre government. One of the greatest challenges of our time is the increasing inequality in power and wealth. With the SV's alternative budget, we give more to people by lowering the tax on low and ordinary incomes rather than prioritizing tax cuts to the few at the top. Our proposal is a policy that balances differences and cuts in greenhouse gas emissions. We often say that the best thing about Norway is small differences, high trust between people and a community built on community and solidarity. With policies that give rise to increasing differences, it becomes less of the trust and community that we appreciate, and more unrest and conflict. Especially this year, we have a special responsibility to do what is in our power to reverse the developments that have been in recent years. In 2021, SV is going to choose that the differences should be reduced and that the emissions should be reduced and that we should pursue a policy for the many, not for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3858	The Prime Minister opened his speech today saying that this is the last financial debate in this period. Yeah, lucky for you. Now, for almost eight years with the Right Party and the Advance Party at the rudder, we have had financial debates that have provided people with insight into how the government has run the country. There have been greater differences between people and parts of the country. This has been a class trip, where those who have the most from before have been premiered and travelled away, and those who have the least have remained on the platform. It is also made visible with unsocial cuts to those who need our and society's support. What has the government, with the Right Party and the Advance Party, done for those who are now out of work? The number of persons receiving disability benefits is increasing and has passed 364,000. They are not offered work training. Children and young people lose support for glasses and dental regulation. It's cut in the children's supplement to those who are disabled. Privatisation and outsourcing provide an unsafe working situation for employees, causing many workers to lose their wages and salaries. These are few results of the policies for which the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are responsible. Norway needs a new course and government that puts community and good welfare services first and that values ordinary workers for the work they do. The working party will always be on the side of the workers and all those who are now unemployed and who are outside the community. We want to give them back security. The working party will provide everyone with good and equal access to high-quality public health services. The government privatises and gives the sickest in society a greater proportion of the necessary healthcare and medicine. It's a class trip in health for those who have money. The Workers' Party will give students an hour of physical activity every day, which was adopted in the Stortinget on 30 November 2017. All children and young people deserve a more active school. They need a school with more movement and better learning. The government refuses to introduce physical activity for all students in Norwegian school. At the same time, they approve more and more sports schools, where those who can afford to pay for more active schooling. It's a class trip for students with good advice. It is now the turn of the workforce to be able to get their class trip — with increased competence, full and permanent jobs and security of income and pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3874	SV carried out one of the largest welfare and education reforms in our time, namely the child hail lift, under the red-green government. Now it's time for a new welfare reform for kids: free SFO. Because SV wants to spend the big money on the little kids. Today, eight out of ten first-graders go to the SFO. They get to play and learn in the community that the SFO is. At the same time, some kids are standing on the outside of the fence and looking in. When school is over, these kids don't get this safe place to be with adults who provide supervision and care. They must not participate in the offer of games, culture and leisure activities. After finishing school day, 18 p.m. by all six-year-olds withered home. One third of those who don't send their kids to the SFO report price as a reason. No child shall be kept outside because of the parents' money book. Schools shall be free of charge and, for SV, it is important that everyone is given the opportunity to participate in the school leisure scheme, regardless of the financial situation of their parents. The SFO shall not be a source of exclusion and increased differences, but an important part of the inclusive and equalising common school. Therefore, SV now promises free SFO to all the country's first ratings into our alternative state budget and goes to the free SFO elections for all first- to fourth-class ratings. With the SV's draft budget, most people are going to get better out, not those who already have enough. A family with a young person in SFO will save 13 036 SEK a year with free SFO. SFO is important for friendship, for play and for learning. It's important for families to get time up, but most of all, SFO is important to our kids. That is why it is important for SV. Now it's time for all kids to be allowed to join the game.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3885	For the eighth time, we have an agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left on the State budget. It facilitates new, safe jobs, knowledge, research and innovation, and not least for the patient’s healthcare. What also made me take the floor was Ingvild Kjerkol's line to Mudasar Kapur earlier today. The waiting time for hospital treatment fell by two weeks from 2013 until the end of 2019. So the waiting time is four days shorter in the 2020 tertiary than in 2013. The waiting time for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment has fallen by almost a month. And those in need of mental health care are waiting about eleven days shorter now than when we took over in 2013 – despite the fact that the Workers' Party is trying to draw a picture of longer waiting times. There are several reasons why the waiting times have been reduced by the Right in government. That work must continue in the years to come, and it is more important than ever that we get to it, when there are so many who have had to put their treatments on hold because of the pandemic. Public hospitals are strengthened, and they will also be strengthened even more next year. It facilitates increased activity growth, but at the same time, the government has managed to have two thoughts in its head at the same time, because we have not been guided by ideological skyscrapers and have therefore also chosen to cooperate with private and ideals to provide patients with good treatment rather than shut them out. Through the free choice of treatment, patients with reference have had the opportunity to choose between public, private and non-profit hospitals with approval without having to pay more of their own pocket. For many patients, the right to choose is a little different, also the difference between life and death. In particular, for patients who are struggling with mental health and drug abuse, who may need a slightly different offer from that offered by the public, free treatment options are important. It is only to record that the Workers' Party has chosen to make it an electoral campaign to remove a patient’s right that 40,000 patients have used in recent years and that even more will avail themselves of. The alternative to the Workers' Party is that only those who have good advice will have the opportunity to avail themselves of private resources. There is a two-way sharing of healthcare that Right will not accept — on the contrary, the Right, along with the other government parties, and also the Advance Party, with this budget will ensure that the waiting time for treatment is further reduced, so that we do not get any longer health cows.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3900	How does the State budget, which has been presented, reflect that we have two existing threats ahead of us? The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change warns us, and the Intergovernmental Panel on Nature warns us. Then we have a more acute crisis. It's the pandemic, which is mentioned many times here today, with all that means. It has caused many to wake up from a maximum of this danger that can hit you seagoing or one of your closest. Imagine if as many had woken up to the same extent of the threats that we've had to deal with – climate crisis, natural crisis! The transitions must take place and they must take place quickly. I had hoped that the government – I see several state councils here today, the country's top politicians – was the leaders, the advisers, the framers, and the promoters. Pisces and carrots, rice and rose — strict measures, just as in the case of the corona epidemic. People can bend for professional advice, it's turned out. They bow to science and knowledge. We have thousands of scientific reports — thousands — that underpin the need to turn around. We have to go in a different direction – grab hold. But then there is a need for a government to communicate seriously, just as the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health — and Nakstad, the very heroist — have done, with serious facial expressions about the development of infection and the measures taken to prevent infection. The lack of the state budget, and even more so after the agreement with the Progress Party, is as effective as we have achieved with the coronavirus pandemic, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reduce important areas. It's going the wrong way. What is proposed for climate action is small, and it is too late. And expansions are liberalized. I had hoped that the government could now really insert the high gear for a green shift, but no. Not least in the transport sector, we see very little of it. Much continues as before, with major motorway expansions, a mantra present minister has inherited two government councils from the Progress Party – speed, tension and asphalt. Motorways are built first in all corridors, so modern railway, if at all there is any railway. At best, the railway comes at the same time as the motorway. And can the President mention a single example where there is built new modern railway in a corridor before the four-field highway? No, I doubt it. In our alternative budget, we point to many measures for a green shift, and also in view of a new green industry – what we call the people's green shift, or the Green new deal. And then I have to say, it's no longer like this that SV can deny that we're not pointing at alternatives. Now let's do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3913	The budget is aimed at limiting the emissions that are destroying our climate. The left is very satisfied with the wrapping. Many people may be tired of the fact that the future is electrical, but the electricity policy works: the electric cars, in the maritime sector, there is a revolution, zero emissions from ferries and speedboats – that is, it works. Higher taxes on CO 2 lead to further strengthening of the green shift. We use collective transport services more and more, several electric bicycles and electric bicycles are being used – and new technologies and modern policies that are forward-looking. The railway operation has never been as large as in 2021. I am absolutely sure that the passengers will be enthusiastic, and more and more people will use this fantastic transport offer in the coming years when more departures arrive, trains go faster and new trains with high comfort and increased capacity will be deployed on several sections, such as. The trombone. I went to the elections on the slogans ‘often, faster and cheaper trains and buses’ before the rollover elections in 2017. The left and the government have delivered. 2021 will be the best year so far. I'm making choices again. Carbon capture and storage is a budget winner. This is the most offensive and innovative investment in next year's budget. All good forces must contribute. At national level, I think everyone is making this project, perhaps with the exception of the Progress Party, but what surprises me is that local politicians are quite tacit, even though the CO 2 emissions that require action are usually within their own municipality. My example is from my home town of Trondheim. Here you have a garbage incineration plant that emits 27 pst. of all CO 2 emissions in the municipality of Trondheim. Trondheim is far from the best boy in the class in terms of recovery. This could have been sorted out by local politicians. The same politicians could have contributed to the development of financial support for capture and storage at the district heating plant, not least help from the NTNU and SINTEF research community. The majority of Trondheim City Government consists of the Workers' Party, SV, MDG and the Center Party. They submitted their budget for 2021 two days ago. I do not see that this majority has great ambitions for CO 2 cut in their own municipalities, except for the measures of the Environmental Package in the field of transport. The environmental package in Trondheim is governed by a broad majority, with the four parties I mentioned, plus the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3936	I'm worried. Two out of three health professionals and nurses work part-time. As a result, sick people and those in need of help receive healthcare, and employees do not have a good working life. Today, 50 psts appear. of the positions of nurses out as part-time. A newly-trained nurse must expect to be in two or more positions at the same time and to be able to get it around with extra guards. Those in need of help should have health professionals as they know them. 90-year-old magda should not get strangers into and out of her room all the time, but it is very common for many like Magda, since many health professionals and nurses are only offered part-time jobs. The part-time problem is even greater in the pandemic. When health professionals have to work in different institutions, they can become infected in one place and infect others in other institutions. We have seen serious cases of infection that have come out of control at some hospital, because the employees have to work in different institutions. While relatives are unable to meet the dying elderly, employees must go from nursing homes to nursing homes. The part-time problem increases the risk of infection. We have to stop lighting part-time positions. The government and the Progress Party have no solutions in the budget to increase the number of full and permanent posts, but SV takes responsibility and proposes 400 million. I want to get it into place. We need a new government, a red and green government, not a center government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3951	The Covid-19 pandemic has been embossing us all for the last year. Unfortunately, it has been particularly difficult for the children and families who are already vulnerable. The government has therefore closely followed up the municipalities in order to maintain offers that children and families can make use of despite the closure. A coordination group kept us up-to-date on the way so that we could deploy extra efforts where necessary. Regardless of the pandemic, violence and abuse against children are a serious social problem. Yes, it is a threat to children's health and growth. That's why our goal is that absolutely no children should be exposed to it. Children are vulnerable, trusting and loyal to their caregivers. Often violence and abuse against children are discovered too late. We need to do more to protect children. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will continue to prioritise early efforts in this area. It has been important for us in this budget to increase the effort associated with the escalation plan against violence and abuse, and we are now doing that with 87.3 million. kr. This means that the total bet on the escalator will be about 1.1 billion. NOK 2021. The funds shall include, inter alia: to provide treatment to persons at risk of sexual assault against children, to the Alarm Phone for Children and Young People and the Sami Centre of Competence. Despite the desire to keep local authorities open under the pandemic, there has also been a need to think differently about how we can help children and young people in vulnerable situations. The government is concerned with prevention and has contributed to the establishment of a help phone for parents and the use of support tools to facilitate the detection and follow-up of vulnerable children in municipalities. The government has also granted $8 million. kr to the Alarm Phone to maintain a 24-hour telephone and chat function for children and young people. During the outbreak of the coronary epidemic, there has been a marked increase in the number of calls to the alarm phone. The purpose of the Alarm Phone shall be in addition to existing emergency preparedness for children and young people, so that all children and young people have a number to call when they experience domestic violence, abuse or other acute and difficult situations. It's especially important now that people are recommended to be at home. Unfortunately, for many children the very most dangerous place to be is home. For the Christian People's Party it is always important – and especially important now – to take care of the most vulnerable among us. Our children are the best investment in the future, and they deserve safe and good growth conditions. That is why it has been a priority for the Christian People's Party that this budget is also heavily spent on preventing violence and abuse against children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3966	A society with small differences is a society that gives everyone the opportunity to participate, with a safe and inclusive working life and a good and accessible safety net for everyone. During the Korona crisis, unemployment in Norway has increased dramatically, and many have gone through 2020 with considerable uncertainty for both their job and economy. But also through the crisis, the government has been able to afford tax cuts for the few at the top, and those who have to pay are the community. Students, sick and disabled people, pensioners and low-income families are getting confused about government policies. It's urgent to do something about the growing differences, which have only become clearer during the crisis. Therefore, SV has provided a budget which prioritises fair distribution, job security and the reversal of the government's non-social cut for vulnerable groups in society. The cut in benefits does not get any more out of work, it only means that more people become poor and sick. Therefore, SV reverses the unsocial cuts in important schemes for families, children, destitutes and refugees. The cut in children’s goggles ensures that children in poor-advised families do not have the same opportunity to participate in games and school. The cut in the child supplement for the disabled has made it even more difficult for those families who already have it difficult. Rich and healthy people are doing their own thing. They've always done that, and they're always going to do that. There is a strange logic on the right-hand side that rich people are motivated by more money and poor people are motivated by less money. Of course it's not like that. There is no doubt that we are facing challenging times. Thousands have lost their jobs. This year, a lot of people are meeting a tough Christmas time. This year, several of the government's restrictions and cuts in the system of redundancy payments came into force, intensifications that the Christian People's Party itself has previously opposed. For young recipients of the AAP, the cut has resulted in NOK 66 000 less to route. The government's tightening of the AAP has made sure that many are thrown out of the benefit without being referred to anything other than social assistance or the income of the person with whom you live. In practice, poverty ends, without being clear about anything. Sick people don't get any healthier from cuts in social benefits. There is a clear link between health and the poor economy. Therefore, SV proposes to reverse the cuts in the AAP and allocate 660 million. NOK to this. The government’s workline has become a poverty line for people in need of help, treatment and follow-up. There is little closeness and solidarity to find in the Christian People's Party, despite the fact that this is about some of the most vulnerable people in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3985	The aim of the Centre Party is to create a society with small differences, both geographically and socially. The offer of the welfare state shall not be reserved for those living in the populous areas. Even those living in the districts are entitled to an equivalent service offer. Everyone has the right to a police present, to good health care, kindergarten, school, nursing home – regardless of whether a person lives in the village or town. In recent years, the provision of services and security in District Norway have been severely reduced, while government jobs have been centralised. The result is the development of the people. In 2005, when Erna Solberg resigned as a municipal minister, the majority of Norwegian municipalities had a decline in the population. After eight years with the Central Party in the Ministry of Local Affairs, the trend had reversed, and the majority of municipalities had grown. This shows that district policy works. After seven years with the Solberg government, the picture is worse than it was in 2005. In 2019, 128 municipalities had growth, but a total of 291 municipalities had a decline in the population. It's going wrong, and it's largely about political decisions, it's about government policy. In the Central Party's alternative budget, there is a strong commitment to the development of the whole country. If we're going to get there, we're dependent on people having services and security where they live. The Centre Party shall give priority to strengthening local democracy through a strong commitment to the local economy, where all municipalities are given a strong increase in their framework, to broadband, police, county roads, rural growth packages and to regional development funds, which create jobs throughout the country. The sum of small and large-scale interventions made by a government affects district policy. The overall impact of centralisation in a number of areas of society is increasing in social and geographical disparities. A successful district policy has historically been crucial for Norway. The central party considers this to be even more important, if possible, in the future, not least for the sake of value creation and security policy. We need a policy to develop the country as a whole, and also district councils that now experience the disappearance of jobs and life grounds need support. To refer to the rapporteur-general in Bø, he says that the state has left us. With the Central Party's alternative budget, we ensure that the state takes responsibility for the whole country, that they are present throughout the country, that ambulances and police are in place when events occur, and that municipalities can afford to keep the community schools, which are so important for the activity of all branches.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e3998	Prime Minister Erna Solberg said something in his speech earlier today that the Labour Party fully agrees with: we must ensure a society that is sustainable for the generations after us. But who will pay for that sustainability? She didn't say that, but we see it. Those who bleed for the tax haven of the rich are the least of them. Every year, the Solberg government, no matter what bourgeois parties sit there, has cut short in popular fear. The aim – to ensure that those who become unemployed, sick, injured or disabled – is not for everyone. The rich run away. The ones with the least of them are hanging after, and the corona reinforces the differences. The working party is particularly concerned about the many people who do not need follow-up after the strong cuts in redundancy pay – higher thresholds in, shorter time, fewer extensions and one year waiting time. We suggest removing the withdrawal period and giving the right to extend for those who are not finished but are voted down. The system doesn't work according to purpose, said the government, took the benefit from people, and flipped, that problem was solved. For those affected, this is when the problem really starts. We have many stories from people who are desperate, sick, without income, scratched for everything. Black paint, says the right parties. No, it's not black paint. It's right-wing policy. One example: let's call her Anne: high education, well paid work, paying social security contributions, but then it's accidentally out, with serious consequences. She said three things: all I want is to get well! The worst thing is not to be believed. When you decide life, you're reduced to a bunch of papers. A comprehensive documentation from a collective medical expertise was just put across, by an advisory doctor she had never met. She was refused, on the grounds that you're too healthy. It was two years without income. Henrik is a truck driver. It doesn't go any further. He has tried other professions, but strong asthma puts an end to most of the time. He'll be 25 in a month. The Christmas present from Erna Solberg last year was cut in the social welfare with a total of 33 p.m. up to NOK 134 000. He asks, "Why should I be punished for being young?" Anne and Henrik are not the only ones. There's a lot of them. Stories are astonishingly similar – uncertainty for the future, no one to talk to, lacks money for drugs and treatment, puts itself in debt. Some have children. It is easy to blame for Nav, but this is policy – specifically right-wing policy. The working party stands for the opposite. We re-prioritise and want the richest to pay more for our common well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4011	When writing the history of the pandemic crisis, we're not going to escape the formidable information effort that the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute have made to curb galloping infections. As far as I have been able to bring it about, Norway is in a class apart in terms of how the authorities in case of personal effort, among other things. by the members of the Government have helped to build confidence in the intervening provisions that have been necessary to implement them. Never before have we received a stronger proof that health information is life-saving. It has certainly taken some time for such a thought to rot in Health-Norway. It was not until 1986, after the Chernobyl accident, which was a pure-bred information disaster on the part of the Norwegian authorities, that there were some people who thought that the Health Directorate should perhaps employ its first informant. Today, the Directorate has developed into a well-balanced information tool that serves the population, health professionals and large parts of our emergency services in Kommune-Norway. Keeping an overview of international day-to-day research is also about the development of good information systems. In addition, awareness-raising work is carried out on diet, physical activity and mental health. Some people may think that it is holding a Goldvog or a Nakstad to inform about the pandemic, but behind them there is intense work on translating infectious diseases, travel regulations and quarantine rules into 20-30 languages to reach our minorities. Apps are being developed to extend to different population groups, and the Directorate communicates through so-called influencers to meet younger groups through a variety of platforms under the label social media. What we've witnessed in these months is a health care system that uses the whole of modern and digitised Norway. For these reasons, I'm concerned when a party here in the hall, which obviously lives in another age, proposes to cut the Health Directorate's information budget by 20 million. kr. It worries me when the same batch intersects 36.5 million. kr of the information budgets of regional health establishments. This isn't just unprofessional; it's unmusical until tone-deaf. I ask myself, was this the Central Party Christmas Presage for those who are behind some of the biggest national heroic efforts in the Korona crisis? Was this the best party to come up with when it comes to a pat on the shoulder and a thank you for the effort? Of course, I do not expect the opposition to be united in a tribute to the information efforts of the Health Directorate, but I believe that there is reason to expect the Centre Party to at least assess the potentially negative consequences of strangling what is one of the most important elements of our health preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4026	A government budget should be the solution to the main challenges we face. There's no doubt about what's the biggest challenge we're facing now, and the coronary crisis has set deep tracks. It touches and touches the everyday life of people in many areas, ranging from the kindergartens who cannot carry their parents into the closet and who must wave ‘have it’ in the gate to the one-handed person who can count the number of clamps since March, the one who has been on leave for much of the year, and the one who has for the first time picked up food bags from the Salvation Army because the month’s budget did not go together. These aren't fictional stories. These are people -- real people, real lives -- who live in my city. They live in Sarpsborg, and I've met them, but similar stories are everywhere. That's not all that can be fixed and solved with politics, but where we can, we have to deal with the consequences of the coronary apathy. For the 12th hour, the government parties and the Progress Party delivered a budget agreement, and although there are individual elements to which we can no longer acknowledge, the questions must be: Is this a budget that responds to the greatest challenges we have now? Do we stand up for those who need it the most? I think the answer is no. The most important thing we can do now is to provide security for income, security for work, a sound health care system and a community that stands up. A short time ago, I met Kaja. Kaja has been on leave for an employee of the hotel and has been on leave since April. She says that living on a low income means that you can't put off much every month for vacation. You can't switch anything off. So when Kaja now aims for the next summer, Kaja knows what meets her. There are no payments, because this government has removed holiday money from the daily allowance. This was done with a pen stroke in 2015. I believe that this is very unfair. We in the Workers' Party are on the team with Kaja and everyone else who earns holiday money on a daily basis – ordinary workers, with whom we put ourselves on the team. In this debate, a description of reality is shared that there is a budget that responds to the challenges we are facing, a budget that delivers. But it doesn't deliver on the challenges people know about in everyday life. It doesn't just help with good words that it gets better, and that we have to stick together and endure. We need real action and proper policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4040	It's amazing that the Right, Left, Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, who have negotiated this budgetary union, have not been able to get along with what is happening in our business. Every company that lives on people's travels has worn off since the travel councils came from the government on August 12. The portal, which helped with a proportion of the firm's fixed expenditure, closed in August. Soon the government will use a new office and new money to create a new portal. Nobody got help in September. Nobody got help in October. No one received help in November, even when the government shut down Norway for the second time on 9 November. Then it became almost impossible to live by gathering people – restaurants, outdoors, pubs. Sanner and Nybø said go to the bank. What security you can hold, the bank replied. The companies that don't have equity to live for the money come once next year, didn't the dues to Solberg apply to them? Is it for the Right and the Left that it does not tolerate the company ten months without income, does it not have the right to life? The companies that are now afraid of bankruptcy are value creators and jobs that deserve better. The government was totally unprepared for the second wave of infection. The only industrial policy tool they know, that's tax relief on capital, it doesn't work right now. Maybe there's not really a Right case? Travel life in Norway, because that's what we're talking about, has grown in importance to our economy in recent years. It's a huge job creator, with 170 000 employees. Unfortunately, it is as nourishment little valued by the government. Travel life was promised a billion on the opera act of September 21st – no one has yet seen a penny of this billion. Like many industries that have grown rapidly, they have a lot of development work to do. They will be sustainable both in the external environment and also in social and economic terms. They shall digitise and operate with good visitor management. Then the employees need to work, and now the companies are afraid to lose the good skills. Why has the government not ensured that we could spend the same money on a wage subsidy rather than using the money on a passivating social security, so that the employees could be in the company? And why on earth shouldn't those who are on leave be able to get holiday money for next year? Does the Right have to remove holiday money for the unemployed every time they get into government? The working party is going to reinstate the holiday money on social security. The Labour Party believes that it is when we say that we must ensure the welfare state. We need to secure our businesses in a time of crisis. We need to strengthen the local economy so that we can deliver a good school, a safe growth and a good care for the elderly. We need to ensure that those with the greatest wealth have to contribute, because income to the welfare state means something, and most importantly it means to those who have the least. Norway’s nobility mark is equal. Everybody's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4055	There is no Norwegian government that has ever had as much money at its disposal as this government. And then we have a unique opportunity to bring down the differences, to cut the dangerous emissions and to get new jobs that we can live on in the future. But what has the government used this space of action for? Well, for many years, they've had billions of billions of billions of taxpayers to the billionaires and the wealthiest, and in this they've been comparing billions of cheap snuff – while there's a business life and crying out for support both to stay on the legs and not least to be able to invest in the jobs we're going to live on in the future. I've been to so many meetings now in my home country where other parties have been talking about the green shift, about the circular economy and I don't know what. I don't see any sign of it in the government's bet. SV has spent money on this in its budget because we know that we need to have jobs ahead and businesses we can live on. We have to make money, and we have to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Then we have to use the space we now have, properly – risk-absorbing and investing money into research and investment in the new jobs, so that they also come to the Inland and Norway, and not in Sweden, Estonia and Germany, as it is now. I can't understand what the government is doing. We're going to bring down the differences. I can take an example, because now the municipal minister is sitting here, and he is responsible for the housing support. I got a letter that shows how it really stands, from him two days ago. The government says that the housing support has increased, but there are 30 000 fewer people who get it now than for approx. ten years ago, and those who get, get much less of their expenses covered. Astrup's calculation shows that this calculation has gone into minus NOK 1634 every month since 2013 – every month. This is due to the fact that the boute poisons have increased much more than the housing support has done. In addition, the income of these groups has decreased. They've had less income since 2013. So this is about all people being able to have a home where they should be able to live safely. We have a tax system that is incredibly shy of us who have housing, and of us who have paid off housing. Imagine if I could borrow money and buy me a Tesla or a cabin and you all would have helped pay it down for me! No, we're going to spend the money on those who need it, and not on those people who can afford to buy both one and the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4068	Something has gone wrong on the way to the Workers' Party – seriously wrong – and then I don't think about the polls. It's like the description of reality that fails. It was then made clear in the change of lines between the representative Henriksen and the council of state, Ropstad. Such a nitrist description of the Norwegian health care system and Norwegian health services is to be sought for a long time. Thus, government policy has reduced the waiting time by fourteen days during the government period. Government policy shall use 20 billion. NOK 2021 for the extension of Norwegian hospitals. And through government policy and eight years of budget growth, 18 pst are being treated. more patients than when the government joined. “We understood the time we lived in, and gave answers that people believed in” – it was the Workers’ Party under Trygve Bratteli. We live in a society with low unemployment in normal circumstances, with high purchasing power and very little economic inequality. The way forward and the possibility of maintaining this is through the creation of jobs in the private sector. We need people who take risks. We need people with creators. We need people who can see the opportunity to make a warp there, yes, actually make money – at the risk of being caricatured as the enrichment of the Workers' Party and made a social problem. We need a tax system that doesn't tax equity in times when companies run out of money. And we need a tax system that doesn't motivate us to move the business out of the country. I must finally say that it was a bit fun to listen to the representative Myrli. He rejoiced to winter and snow as a sort of light therapy for his political black vision. I am also looking forward to winter and snow, but not for the same reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4083	The country is in a serious situation. It is serious for many people who have no job and who have an uncertain income. It is serious for more industries and for business. That is why it is also important that we ensure that business comes out of the crisis and that it survives after the crisis is over. While some flirt about tax relief, the Progress Party believes that tax relief is good for Norwegian business. That for some representatives it doesn't matter what the product costs, I understand, but it means something to all, most people in this country who have a regular job and a regular income. We also need a tax system that creates jobs and preserves business. However, it is not just a historical tax reduction that the Progress Party has got through in the budgetary agreement. So we're going to get 2 billion. extra kr to the pensioners. We stop the unsocial proposal to increase the excess. Immigration policy is being tightened up. We'll give you 100 million. kr extra for district police. Tolls go down by 2 billion. kr, and it will not be cut in private kindergartens. I could still much longer, but I don't have time for that. I'm going to go to something completely different, and it's that in my constituency, West Agder, you've been used to being the forgotten part of the country in the past, with the Workers' Party and the Senter Party in government – many people think you're only going on vacation to fish mackerel and go to the zoo. There are so many other things that are important for the part of the country, namely that we have motorway development going on, which had not come without the Progress Party, and which many from this pulpit spend time telling us they don't really want. But we're not giving in to that. We'll give almost 65 million. additional to this State budget for asphalt and road maintenance in the South, in addition to the initial investments. We wanted to initially allocate 30 million. kr in our alternative state budget to complete the Lista package, so that you could complete the work approved by the Stortinget 15-20 years ago, when the Lista package was approved. Unfortunately, there was something Right and Christian People's Party did not want, despite a strong representation in that part of the country. I'm sorry. Many of my suppliers work in the oil and are related to the supplier industry. It's important to people. It's their job. It pays house and home. That's why I'm really sorry when I hear people talking about a radical climate policy. It is a radical climate click that will put down Norway's main industry and throw thousands of people into unemployment, while perhaps not even realizing the paradox of being a public employee in the capital, and that the pay you get comes from the industry you want to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4106	Before the 2013 elections, the parties were challenged by several media on what they would do for students. The three objectives of the Progress Party were to increase the construction rate to 2000 student housing per year, to introduce 11 months of study support and to link the study support to the basic amount. After more than six years in government, the phase has been introduced: eleven months of student support, so that a student is now paid 14 600 kroner more per year than in 2013. While the average for the construction of student housing was 900 under the red-greens, the average was 2,200 a year during the period the Progress Party was in government. We see that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party government has slightly reduced the level of ambition after we went out, and now added up to 1,650 student homes this year. The progress party wanted to increase this, and in our alternative budget we proposed a further 225 student homes, but unfortunately we did not win in the negotiations with the government to increase it. Of the objectives we mentioned before the 2013 elections, it remains for us to link the study support to the basic amount. In 2013, the study aid was 1,11G, which was the lowest level ever recorded. A study carried out by SpareBank 1 showed that 45 pst. of the students needed financial help from home at the time we entered the government, while in 2019 it was reduced to 37 pst. Increases in student support during our government period have contributed to a better economy for the students. In our alternative state budget, we specifically proposed linking study support to G. Unfortunately, we did not get along with it, despite the fact that this is in the party programs of both the Left and the Christian People's Party. But we don't give up and will continue these fights forward. We also made it up to build the country by investing on the road, we wanted to reduce the toll burden on the drivers, we wanted to strengthen the police districts, we wanted to reduce health cows by using private capacity, we wanted to work for better conditions for the pensioners, we wanted to secure the seafarers, and we wanted to save the private kindergartens in our alternative budget. All of this we've moved the government in the right direction. We're going to spend more money on the way, we're going to reduce the toll by 2 billion. Kroner, we're going to strengthen the police districts, we're going to build 1,000 new hospitals, we've got the cut-offs for the private kindergartens, we've got a good maritime package to secure the seafarers, and we've got 2 billion. kr more for the pensioners, among others. NOK 5000. more to single minimum pensioners. For Rogaland, we're very happy to have $5 million in place. NOK to Eigerøy Bru and SEK 8 million. kr to the rescue car in Rennfast. The tunnel on the E39 is on average closed twice a week. With a rescue car in place that can quickly move in, we will now strengthen both road safety and accessibility for those who use the road daily.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4123	When the name of our Prime Minister is not Gahr Støre, I am glad that it is Solberg in front of Trump, Bolsonaro or Duterte, for that matter. Fortunately, there are quite intelligent people in most parts of Norway. Nevertheless, it plays a role in who is Prime Minister, and who is in charge, also in Norway. As a 40-year-old, under Prime Minister Solberg, a few gray hairs can be in the head – and it is possible that the Prime Minister himself may have had some gray hair during the last weeks’ budgetary proceedings. At least the bill came in at least 18 billion. kr. The Prime Minister has a yearly salary of just over 1.7 million. kr. I'm fine with that. But for every day until the election, we're now going to pay about 63.4 million. kr for Norway's Prime Minister to continue to call Erna Solberg. As a child, I was skeptical about whether the word “good luck cannot be bought for money” was correct. As a big policy this week, I have been thoroughly confirmed that this is still the case, because as early as the moment when the budgetary unit was presented, the nebbing and disagreements between the government parties and the Progress Party also began. But what do the budget friends, who were not so good friends anyway, spend this money on? In Arendal, we have a hospital we're very proud of, and we're in a torch for when it's necessary. In Arendal we have a heart ward, which is Norway's best. Unfortunately, it does not get money under this government to expand as they wish, so that they can treat even more heart patients with peak treatment and equipment, so that they can still be Norway’s best in five years and ten years. At the hospital in Arendal we have a therapy pool that has meant a lot to the quality of life of many chroniclers. Under this government, water has been emptied because one cannot afford to maintain and operate it any longer. And what is the answer to these budget friends? More purchase of private health care solutions – not water in the therapy pool or bet in the community heart department in Arendal. What is the Labour Party's answer in our budget? Two hundred thirty-six million. kr more to only Sørlanden Hospital during this ageing period – to water in the therapy pool, to bet on Norway’s best heart department, because we believe in community, because we believe in security for everyone regardless of the size of the wallet. The Korona epidemic has shown us just how important this is. Let this be the last government budget to be characterised by privatisation over Community solutions, marked by tax cuts to the richest rather than holiday pay for the unemployed. There's going to be a choice. There will be an opportunity to choose a new direction for the country before the next financial debate – a direction in which we believe that happiness cannot be bought for money but can be created together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4138	A review by the Labour Party in this debate has been to suggest a description of the misery of both developments in Norway and the management of the coronary crisis. The representative Svein Roald Hansen even grabbed a Bible quotation to get his points out. Small differences in a society are a very important value. But the Labour Party's attempt to describe Norway as a disparate society of failing well-being goes too far, however, when we know that Norway is one of the world's societies with the absolute smallest differences in all aspects, as established by both the UN and the OECD. So what's the Labour Party's gold standard? The biggest differences are between those who are at work and those who are outside. What does the Workers' Party do in a crisis situation where 200,000 are in corona-related unemployment? Well, they're increasing taxes by 7 billion. kr directly targeted at enterprises – and this at a time when more than ever we need to create more jobs in private enterprises, because it is these jobs that actually pay for well-being. The working party tries to present it as if it were a wealth tax. Then they forget that that tax is actually a tax on values in companies – on wood in stock, on boats that are now in stock, on machines that are in the lubrication hall. It is a tax that has to be paid regardless of whether or not the company is running with profits, and in a time of crisis it may be fatal. The working party also fails to tell us that property tax is a special tax on Norwegian family-owned enterprises, where 90 pst. of the jobs in the private sector are actually, and as non-resident owners do not pay. The Labour Party will therefore continue and reinforce discrimination against Norwegian private ownership. It took the Workers' Party approx. one week to cancel the promise of 7 billion. SEK in increased taxes on jobs is a maximum. Now there's no upper limit. Yeah, well, that's to fund all of the election promises that are not funded in the alternative budget. What about listening to businesses and businesses, to the NHO? They say that the state budget shows the way out of the crisis, and that reduced taxes on wealth, lower taxes and green tool packages are important for businesses all over the country. We have to take responsibility," says the Workers' Party. Yes, we take responsibility. We're going to take Norway out of the crisis, but the way further does not go through a larger public sector and more state. The jobs we lose must be replaced by new jobs in private businesses, and then we cannot send the bill to the companies, as the Workers' Party does.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4153	We are probably approaching the end of this debate slowly, but certainly. Then, in my strong opinion, it is very alarming that the defence of the overall budget by the coalition partners is as weak as we hear in this debate. They talk about their own things, and then they point to each other in terms of what they perceive is negative. The top of this was the exchange of lines with the Minister of Finance when he was asked about the tax reduction on alcohol and snuff – and it was the Minister of Finance who said that if I as a right-wing man were to be given the definite use of this money, I would spend it on school and welfare. Then the Storting really needs a clarification as to whether the Minister of Finance is behind the whole budget and the agreement he has concluded with the Progress Party. It owes the Finance Minister Stortinget, and there is reason to point this out, because there has been a review melody throughout the discussion here, namely that you really have difficulty taking responsibility for the whole. There is another important feature in the whole discussion, which is the mantra of the right, and it is this claim that the Workers' Party does not take responsibility for the private sector. The Labour Party has taken responsibility for the private sector throughout the post-war period. And the private sector has been successful because the welfare state has also been developed. This mantra on which the whole philosophy of the right is based, also in this debate, that when it rains on the priest, it drips on the clock, is punctuated by all tradesmen. We're about to vote. And so now there's a majority in this room to refuse those who bear the biggest burden of the pandemic, to get their holiday money. Think about it -- a majority in this room would actually say this at the same time as they're trying to collect the credit because they've handled the pandemic in a good way. It is politically incomprehensible to me that this is happening – it must be a complete misunderstanding – and what is the conflict between giving workers their holiday money to the summer and making sure that they have enough money to give to businesses in order to go around and ensure jobs. I don't understand where that contradiction is. It can once again just be explained by what I've said before, and that's related to one having to be a right-wing people to think like that. That's the only reason, in case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4166	When one hears the representative Kolberg, I want to start by saying that the importance of tradesmanship after the war, also for the construction of what happened in the private sector, is undeniable. What is the problem today is that it is the responsibility one has had for the positive development of the private sector, the Labour Party uses this debate to distance itself from. For what would the old industrial giants in the Labour Party think that, in the greatest crisis since the war on very many Norwegian companies, the Labour Party is using the possibility to increase taxes on Norwegian jobs – not only the wealth tax, but a doubling of the proposed increase from the CO 2 tax government? There is a targeted tax on Norwegian industrial workplaces on the coast. When it comes to the employment of the Norwegian ship's fleet, which is currently struggling with the profitability of getting people back to work, the Workers' Party has traditionally been involved in taking responsibility for ensuring that, even when it comes to it, we ensure that there is liquidity and capacity in the private sector to keep people in work, which the Labour Party uses its 2021 budget proposal to leave. Then the representative of Kolberg in his first post, to put a lid on that debate, tries to present the Progress Party as the Money People's Party. Don't delete, we're using the huge space of action in this budget to set up for all the industrial workers who now feel that the job is insecure: in the maritime sector, in the entrepreneurial sector, in the grocery trade – those who haven't had a job, but who have got the opportunity for a job, and who we can try to do permanently. Companies now experience that the Labour Party will collect the last crowns they could have used for investments in their own company to create new jobs, because the Labour Party will have them in the State treasury. The Labour Party must soon begin an analysis of its own policy, its consequences. The consequence is significant tax consolidation for Norwegian business in a situation where jobs are unsafe. The consequence is that Norwegian companies are being deprived of the possibility of continuing to develop industrial workplaces because a tax on our industrial workplaces is higher than our competing countries in Europe do, and not least in Asia. It is so liberating, and sometimes almost fun, to the right Martin Kolberg rallies over the right side of the speaker's chair. But it's time to look at its own policies, because the consequences of it would be fatal for Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4182	Like Dale, who was before me in the pulpit, right-wing representatives in the debate have tried to tell us what high-ranking goals they have for their policy. This is the right-hand side of the world, while in politics they actually do the exact opposite of what they claim. Joe Biden, the President-in-Office of the United States, has a standard phrase when he hears this mantra from the right on how great it will be, and what high-ranking goals they have. He says, don't tell me your values, show me your budgets, and I'll tell you what you value. Now we're probably discussing a right-hand budget that follows the tradition that has been since they came to power in 2013, with increasing differences, where the richest will get even more, and where the bill sends people with ordinary income. Workers who today feel very insecure for the job, for their own future, for their own income and for their own health, are receiving little help from the right-hand government. The right-hand side prioritizes the interests they represent, and that's, as many people have pointed out, so that the right-hand side has always existed for the better-advanced in society. The Labour Party also represents interests. We represent the interests of the workers, the employees in Norway, the people who get up every morning, go to work, stand on their own and their own, but also for the community. It is also shown in the Labour Party budget, where we prioritise action to get people to work, to secure the income of people and to ensure health and well-being for everyone. The government's policy is short-term and unfair. They just push the problems a little bit in front of them, and they create insecurity for both businesses and workers. The Labour Party believes that the crisis measures must last for as long as the crisis lasts, that they must be fair and for all. That is why I shall give an explanation of vote. The Labour Party has seen that there are several proposals that are being discussed here, which are about looking at the permitting legislation. The working party is set to assess its extension. We believe that it is primarily a responsibility for the parties, but we also want to discuss that we ensure that the crisis measures last for the duration of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4194	Let's have an open and honest talk about how things are going with the economy of our country. Now we're going to look at three of the most important developments. Differences between people are increasing in Norway. Many of our workers, e.g. more people in construction, cleaning, restaurant and serving have less to buy milk and bread for today than they had ten years ago. Last year our country went – and here it is about holding on – with a deficit of 277,000 million. kr, corrected for the export of oil and gas. It has been said that we should have more legs to stand on, travel new industry and so get what the Prime Minister so often calls a conversion. It's been a complete error. Our country has never been more oil dependent than we are in 2020. This is the most important point – work. There are several municipalities in our country where 40 pst. or more of the working-age population are out of work. In this room it would be so much that Sanner, Bakke-Jensen, Myrli, Dale, Andersen, Kaski, Kapur, Limi and Agdestein would all be out of work. Everything I've been referring to now has two things in common. There's statistics taken from the SSB, and it was evolution before the corona. After the corona, this is just becoming even more problematic. Where is our country going, unless we use democracy here to balance differences, raise income for ordinary workers and make sure that more people actually get the opportunity to get a job? We have heard more than enough articles trying to make up the development we so clearly get documented more strongly every day. We don't need any more of that kind of posts. Now, as a big crowd, we must begin to take the development seriously and create confidence in the future for the wider community. That's what our job is, and we see that the policy is now failing. And as Eika's economic leader said in News 18, when the state budget was presented: this is a budget that controls to keep employment still low. We need a fairer Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4215	It is not intended to go out this evening, but the ear was about to do this instead when I heard Right Anne Kristine Linnestad, and then I had to ask for the word. The representative Linnestad claimed that a number of municipalities would lose with the budget of the Central Party. So she's talking about a budget arrangement that will give the primary municipalities 3 billion. kr more than what her own government does. The point of Linnestad was that the Centre Party does not continue the regional centre grant in its alternative budget. That's right. It is a grant that both my municipality of residence, Innere Østfold, and her municipality of residence, Nordre Follo, receive today. The regional centre grant is an arbitrary grant established by the Right to provoke municipal mergers and contributes to major differences between municipalities. The centre party is concerned with the opposite – that there should be equivalence and that all municipalities, irrespective of their size and location, should be able to provide equivalent services. That's the opposite of what this government stands for. In the government's logic is greatest and densest best. Therefore, the right-wing government changed the cost-sharing keys in 2017, with the aim of forcing a new municipal structure together, which more have become aware of the body. The regional centre grant was part of that scheme. And of course, even if the Center Party removes the random and unfair scheme, we're compensating for it. It is not the case that Nordre Follo and Inner Eastfold or other municipalities that are currently receiving regional centre grants are losing with the arrangement of the Centre Party. On the contrary, with the arrangement of the Centre Party, the municipality of Eastfold will have an increase of a net of 4.3 million. kr in free resources. Included crisis funds are the sum of 15 million. kr. For the municipality of Linnestad, Nordre Follo, the corresponding sum is 14.4 million. net, with emergency funds close to 37 million. kr. So how the representative Linnestad manages to present this as if the municipalities are losing money on the order of the Center Party is a mystery to me. The representative also expressed an understanding of elected representatives who, in these days, are struggling to balance budgets. We share that understanding. People elected are struggling with the consequences of Right-wing policy. That's what's real.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4226	We have a health crisis that afflicts the country and the whole world. But we know there's going to be an even worse health crisis. The crisis is like a slow-moving train crash. We're looking at the crisis, we know it's coming, but very few talk about this crisis or have solutions in this state budget. The crisis is antibiotic resistance. We've forgotten how much antibiotics have meant to us all. If antibiotics don't work, a scrubbing wound or pneumonia can kill you. Antibiotics are the basic plank of the health care system. It is essential for almost all operations, from cancer treatment to cesarean section. Every year, 750,000 people die as a result of antibiotic resistance — every year! I'm afraid -- not to myself, I'm lucky, I live because antibiotics worked when I was very sick, but I'm afraid of the kids who can live in a society without antibiotics. We have to act. While the government and the Advance Party spend money on chocolate and beer, SV prioritises building up the defence against the pandemic that will come: getting better diagnostic systems in hospitals start StatMed to produce narrow-spectrum antibiotics start vaccination programme for all adults eartag research tools to work against antibiotic resistance Being a politician is a priority. If I were in this government, I'd be so embarrassed. They spend our pension money on cheaper chocolate, but they have few measures for the biggest pandemic we know will come. SV prioritizes the fight against antibiotic resistance, and I hope several parties will be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4252	This is the eighth state budget for which a right-wing government is given a majority in the Grand Duchy. As a right-wing politician, there are many things you can draw with this government in the last eight years. The Solberg government steered us safely through the oil crisis in 2014 and the refugee crisis in 2015, and with this budget, the country is managed safely through the corona pandemic in 2021. However, as I am currently meeting as an alternate on the Health and Welfare Committee, today's financial debate is an excellent opportunity to present another area of activity that this government has had over the last eight years, which does not always receive the attention it might deserve. When I chose high school in the mid-2000s, there were a lot of people who were surprised that I chose a professional. How could I, who after all had relatively good characters and was quite happy in theoretical subjects, choose a profession? Isn't it only for those who aren't good at school? A lot of people asked me. This was in the mid-2000s, and the profession had long been reduced, and there was a sort of perception that this direction of study was for so-called school losers. It hasn't been that long since the 2000s, but today there's more attention around the profession both politically and otherwise in society, it's been put in a much better light and got a much higher status. Several students choose a professional course. Now it's not right to give all credit to this government for this happy development, but I think a little honour should be given, also in the current budget. As part of the Education Commitment in 2020, more than 850 million were allocated to us. for measures to enable more people to complete their secondary education and for more people to take up their apprenticeships. The government continues this effort in the 2021 budget, including: the following measures: 150 million. to facilitate an expanded offer at school for students who do not receive an apprenticeship. In addition, the government continues the extraordinary increase in the apprenticeship grant, the increase is SEK 4 250 per apprenticeship contract next spring. Since 2013, the apprenticeship allowance has increased by more than NOK 20 000 per contract. 300 million. kr shall be used for the completion of advanced training for more persons on leave and for the completion of an estimated 5000 persons by 2021. More than 150 million must be used. kr for graduates who go out with holes in the diploma to complete secondary school, and there is a commitment of 45 million. kr in order to offer to persons who already have study and professional competence from higher education to take more. Now I see that time is running out, because here the government has so many good measures for the professional sector – and more could be mentioned. It means something who's in charge of this country. In professional matters, I'm very happy that it's Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4265	If what this debate has shown us, it is that Right has good access to communications advisers, both in the big group and in the departments, because there is a lot of novelty here, there is a lot of talk here. There has also been a series of hard attacks on the Central Party in this debate. Then I want to say to the Right that the problem is actually not the Center Party, the problem is that Right for seven years has used every day to centralize Norway. That's the problem, and that's where one has to start. I have to get inside the crisis packages. There will be too many crisis packages, there will be too short-term crisis packages. We need long-term, business needs long-term. We need a plan to do this. It turns out that one has a seat with his hands in the trap and does not work with the compensation scheme. One guess as though there could not be anything new, so there was no prohibition, and so the companies had to wait for over New Year's to get money. It's bad government crisis management. More long-term business is what business needs. Then there's also one thing that strikes me, and that's when people go up – and they prefer to have a right-pin on them – and say that this is the eighth budget one has done well to cooperate on. But then I hear the second cooperation party say they're so-called "fed up." This is the word used by the Progress Party. Then you can read in the budget agreement what fat up means. This means that they will consult the government, which means that they will cooperate on the revised state budget, and that means that they will cooperate on the ageing process. But we who have been in the Chamber today, but who have followed the budget negotiations, we see a number of extremely serious cooperation problems. There are also many right-wing representatives who have used the debate to talk about the wealth tax and that there are eight budgets that have been submitted. At least it might be worth remembering what happened to the property tax these years that Right has ruled. How much business pays now, compared to what one did, for example. in 2013? Does one billion pay less? Does a two billion pay less? Does a three billion pay less into the year? Does a four billion pay less into the year? Ten billion less in taxes on wealth? No, the reality is that Norwegian companies pay more into the treasury than when Right took over. It's not good enough to sit here and talk about it. If one thinks anything, one has had eight years to do something about it. One has chosen not to do so, and the Prime Minister has also made it clear that one will not remove the property tax for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4278	In today's debate, the Workers' Party has rallied that the Progress Party will reduce the charges on several products exposed to border trade. Ensuring the workplaces of Borg Breweries in Sarpsborg, Brynild factories in Fredrikstad, Ashim fruit and berry pressing in Inner Eastfold and Kiwi in Halden and Moss, it is obviously not so important for the Workers' Party. However, it is clearly not so important for the Right and the Government, who also did not submit any proposal for cuts in fees until the Progress Party was pressured to do so. There's probably one area where the Labour Party, the Right, the Center Party and the other parties are not skeptical about cutting, and that's for the country's pensioners. That's probably why Jonas Gahr Støre, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Trond Helleland and their party colleagues are not talking about pensioners today. If that's because they have a bad taste in their mouths because in their original budget proposals they don't have one ear to abolish the underregulation, I don't know, but the fact is that only the Progress Party has provided an alternative budget in which money is actually allocated to strengthen the pensioners' economy next year. Today, when we're going to vote afterwards: if the budget of the Central Party is adopted, the country's pensioners will be cut off next year. If the budget of the Workers' Party is adopted, the country's pensioners will be cut off next year. If the Socialist Left Party is adopted, the country's pensioners will be cut off next year. Why these parties are making proposals where, knowingly and willfully, those who built our country are less likely to be incomprehensible. Fortunately, the country's pensioners know that although several parties have obviously failed them, the Advance Party does not give up. That's why I'm glad the Progress Party got pressured the government into a budgetary settlement where the country's pensioners are the winners. Next year is the first year in many years that the country's pensioners will not lose their purchasing power but be strengthened in their economy. The Labour Party and the Centre are voting against this today. Of a budget of more than 1,500 billion. So it is only the Progress Party that is able to find the means to stop underregulation. It's incomprehensible to me. But the fact that the Progress Party has got a full pension win next year does not mean that the country's pensioners are secure for all future. That is why I am pleased that the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party's proposal for a compromise on a propensity promise has been well received. The negotiations are ongoing, but now I also expect the parties to follow up with action, not just words. The country's pensioners have limited time to wait, action has to be done, and it has to be done quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4291	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4296	The representative Dale is trying to teach me about the veterans in the Workers' Party's view of industrial travel. It's completely unnecessary. I know very well what they've meant. First, they stood for an industrial journey because they used the state, and second, they built the welfare state in combination with it, to get labour at these places in a proper, fair and proper way. So they didn't use the market, they used the state. I'm going to use this short line to just return lessons to Dale. His party represents a story that was about the state to go away – the market would rule everything. That's what Carl I. Hagen said for 40 years from Stortinget's pulpit. State revenue should be reduced to almost an existing minimum. Had it happened, Dale in this room today had not had five cents to spend on dealing with the pandemic, because they were also against the establishment of the oil fund and Statoil. It's Dale's story.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4303	Politics at its best is about people's future, about making life the next year and the years after better, richer and safer – about what's going to happen. But too often politics is about what's been in the last eight years, or the eight years before that. I hope the sitting government is replaced. My main reason is not what they've done in the last eight years. Because that's not a big deal for us, no matter who wins the election in the autumn of 2021. We're not going to choose who's going to rule Norway in the last eight years. We will choose who will direct Norway into the future. I think more people would have followed our debates if we were talking about the dreams of the future instead of the accounts last year. People do not expect us to agree, but they expect the debates to be about them and not about us. When people wake up at 4 p.m. 3 a.m. with a concern that lies above them, there are a few basic things that we really have in common, all of them: how are our kids doing? How is it about our health or the health of someone we're worried about? Is the job safe? Is the economy sustainable? Then we are not workers' party or right-wing people, black or white, city or country. Then we are people with human concerns and hope. People will hear that we understand that she who fears that the 13-year-old will fall out of school understands that her fear is our fear, that he who hopes that the job is safe knows that it is our hope, or that she who dreams that the daughter will be able to be with the classmates on everything they have, that her dream is our dream. Thank you to the Right and the Advance Party – thank you for showing what is possible in the last few days. If you really burn for something, you can find 7 billion. Over a budget call, $7 billion. NOK to lower taxes and charges. Fair enough, then it's escaped. But can we promise each other that the next time we find 7 billion. Do we spend it on making sure that all the kids in Norway get a good start in life, a good start in school? That would be enough to do that job. Or the time after that, when we find 7 billion. Can we promise that we will use them to give everyone in the world of work the opportunity to build skills for the jobs of the future? It would have solved that whole problem. That's what I'm burning for, and that's why I want someone else to rule Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4314	That's the last financial debate in this big period and the eighth with Solberg as the head of government. It has shown us that we are now debating a budget and a budgetary settlement for which there is limited enthusiasm. We saw and heard it already on Tuesday night at the press conference. And with over 200,000 unemployed people probably expected them to be the main theme of that press conference – but they weren't. It was sugar, snuff and snuff. After eight years of varying compositions of government, there is reason to reflect on what people have experienced as a result of what should be new ideas, better solutions – and enforcement. Yes, the implementation force has been precise. The idea is well known: cuts in holiday money, cuts in the protective supplement for disabled people, cuts in work clearance money, cuts in dental health, glasses support, support for food intolerance and incontinence. The list is long, and it exactly hits: most people. Equally precise are the tax cuts for those with the highest income. Eight years ago, we heard a lot about a government that would make us less oil addicts. When the Stoltenberg government went off, we spent 126 billion. kr. In this year's budget, before the corona, we used almost twice. Then I have to comment on Mr Wiborg's proposal, because that is wrong what is being said from the Chair. The working party has put in money to regulate the pension with pay and price. It is in our draft budget, which went through the Financial Committee – i.e. It did not, it had to be presented as a loose proposal here. It has happened quickly, so soon that the representative Wiborg has not come to know that we have introduced the same regulations. And we haven't done as the Progress Party's proposal suggests, that it's those who get work clearance, and those who have transitional benefits, who are going to pay for the pensioners' additions. I would like to remind the representative Wiborg that during the debate here a few weeks ago, the Workers' Party introduced both a proposal to regulate pensioners' payments with the average wage and price and even a proposal that we should regulate with the average wage and price already this year. Both proposals were put to the vote, including by the representatives of the Progress Party. Had we voted in favour of our proposal then, the pensioners could have had the same regulation we support for next year already this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4325	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4331	When the representative of Kolberg again takes the floor, one might think it was to tell industrial workers along the entire west coast where the Labour Party targeted increases the taxes on Norwegian jobs, while their sister party in Europe tries to keep up the competitiveness of its industry. But once again, Martin Kolberg is more busy telling his own version of what the Norwegian right side has looked like on the axis between Youngstorget and Karl Johans Gate in half a life. But the industry is in a different situation. The fight for industrial workplaces is now under way. It helps very little with history hours when one does not understand what kind of challenge workers face. There is a lack of capital in the company to invest in the jobs, to get an activity going, and that situation confronts the Labour Party in increasing taxes on Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4338	In an earlier article today, I stated that four parties working together may have slightly different priorities, but that in a budgetary settlement, everyone gets an impact. It made the representative Martin Kolberg ask questions if I asked myself behind the budget. Of course I do. It's a budget that helps us create more, that we include more, and it's a budget to secure jobs and well-being. In this debate, there is a lot that separates the right side and the left side. At the same time, there is something going on, and it's a real and deep commitment to single businesses, to the unemployed and to business in general. But it is going to be completely wrong when representatives Støre, Aasland and Pollestad try to present it so that the government has been holding hands from June until October. In June, we informed the Storting that we wanted to phase out the compensation scheme, because the business activity was about to begin. It joined the Storting. At the same time, we informed Stortinget that we wanted to sit down with the social partners – LO, NHO and Active etc. – to discuss the arrangements and needs beyond the harvest. We did that before the summer and after the summer. Together with the social partners, we agreed that there was a need for measures aimed at travel, and we came up with good arrangements for this. The scheme was based on the experience of the old compensation scheme. Then the infection situation got worse, we had new meetings with the social partners and agreed on a wide compensation scheme. It develops and now comes into being and for the companies is roughly similar to the old system, with one difference, that there is control in front of it and not so much in retrospect. Regardless of the scheme chosen, it had to be based on a fall in turnover. The sales case in November and December you want to know at the end of the month, and that means that when you deal with applications, you don't get the money the same month, but you get them afterwards, and that means that the money will come in January. But what have we done for those companies that now feel that they have a lack of liquidity? Many are struggling, many have challenges, and therefore we have now increased the possibility of postponing taxes, so that you do not have to pay the taxes, the VAT, the employer's tax, but you can get it deferred. That is why we have also improved the loan guarantee scheme, so that banks have more room to find solutions for the companies that are struggling, but of course the bank has to make its banking judgement. There's just a few examples of what's going on. The schemes in Norway are more generous, and the money comes just as fast or faster. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4351	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4356	I would like to thank you for an elucidating debate. My good colleague, the representative of Mørland, said that you can get gray hair at the age of 40 by the Solberg government. I can confirm that you can also get gray hair at the age of 32, but I will not speculate on the causes, although I believe that fiscal policy is a contributing cause for that. ‘Citizen cooperation is solid’, it was said from the Right a little earlier this evening. Well, the Progress Party says that they're done with the Left and Christian People's Party, and clearly states that it wouldn't be a budget union if the country wasn't in crisis. They also say that the Prime Minister is weakened. So there's solid civil cooperation there. In the debate, the Right also made some direct false claims about the property tax and who is paying it, which I would like to clarify. It was claimed to be withdrawing money from the districts and from Oslo. It's as far from the truth as it's possible to get. The major assets in Norway are concentrated in the big cities and in Asker and Bærum. So the property tax is a tax that makes the richest people, who live mostly in the big cities and in Asker and Bærum, pay their fair share to the fissure layer. We spend this money on welfare throughout the country, on kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly, from Lindesnes to Nordkapp. It is this Right and the representative, Jon Georg Dale, from the Progress Party, is so deeply opposed. In the year that has passed, the Workers' Party has fought through better arrangements for the lay-offs and the unemployed – a contribution I made during the reply earlier today that the Minister of Finance also appreciated. Although the country is still in a health and labour crisis, the political everyday life of the Grand Duchy is largely back. The Progress Party is the government's supporting party, and the Left and Christian People's Party accepts the Progress Party breakthroughs in order to sit on their State Council taboos. Also in the time to come, the Workers' Party will insist that the big money should go to the big problems. The big tasks are about the almost 200 000 unemployed, and their future – they're going back to work. It is also about ensuring safe growth for all children in Norway, and it is about resolving the climate crisis while creating future faith and jobs for emerging generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4369	When I read statistics on how things are going in Norway, sometimes I get a little surprised. My goal and the goal of the Center Party is to develop all of Norway and have a country with small differences. When I've gone into the statistics, I've thought that the public sector is the part of the country that contributes to equalising differences – equalising pay differentials and differences between parts of the country. But if you look at the numbers, it's in the public sector that the pay gap has increased the most. Where the Storting and the Government have control, the pay gap has increased most, not least. Turning to centralisation and government's own regional policy selection, the Brandtzæg Committee: What are their conclusions? Is the private sector or state/public sector the most centralised? They are also completely crystal clear: it is the state and the state workplaces that have been centralised, not the private ones. So the problem is, as the state is now governed, that in terms of the pay gap between people, they are increasing most in the public sector, and in terms of how to distribute jobs around Norway, it is centralized most in the public sector. This is entirely a political responsibility, and when we're going to discuss what kind of countries we want, we need to see how we can use the state's instruments to balance differences, not reinforce differences. In summing up the eight years with Prime Minister Erna Solberg, with the Right and the Advance Party, and with the Christian People's Party and the Left, one will see that there has been a centralization, and there have been differences. We have to reverse this trend, because what we are happy about in Norway is a country with small differences between people, not great differences, and a country where there are equal opportunities whether you want to live in Finnmark or Oslo. I had a birthday on December 1st, and then there were new statistics on the table: there were 62,200 lay-outs. It wasn't exactly something to celebrate. There are 62,200 lay-offs and almost 200,000 unemployed. In today's debate, the Centre Party has tried to raise the situation of the permissives. You should get a system that will give them security even after 12 months have passed. There I think the Right has been extremely reprehensible. That's really very brutal what you're adding, because if you don't extend the rules of leave, people will go out on leave. Now people are outlawed because the government has told you to shut down activity. There has been a right decision, but then you also have to stand up when you see the consequences of the decision. So my appeal again to the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party is: Start seeing the people, not just the desktop theory, and don't send people out on leave. It's a political choice. It should be clarified as soon as possible, so that people are given security – not insecurity – into the festival we have before us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4382	This morning I allowed myself to be a little optimistic. Now it's later in the evening, and I'm going to be a little bit more critical. During this debate, we have not received a single good response from the government as to why a compensation scheme has not been put in place, for the country's businesses to a greater extent than today's, and which ensures the companies money. I can't understand why it hasn't been working on that scheme in the early harvest. It is tempting to wonder whether this is about the right only letting companies go bankrupt, and then some foreign players or chains can buy them up in the new year, because the loan arrangements and tax deferrals don't hit. This financial debate is probably and hopefully Erna Solberg's last finance debate as Prime Minister, and after eight years I think it's time to settle down. 30 B.C.E. The government has cut taxes since 2013 – 30 billion. less into our welfare, to schools, to kindergartens, to hospitals, to the unemployed and disabled. It's notable, for the rhetoric of the right, that the tax cuts help most of the Nordics, they're just customs. The tax havens have mainly gone to people with wealth, especially those with the big fortunes. The 99 pst. on average, a 1 pst tax has been cut by Norwegians with a minimum wealth. income in the first bottling period and 0,3 pst. of income in other – 99 pst. in Norway — while the richest thousand people have been cut 7-8 pst. of its taxes on income in both periods. The thousands richest in Norway have nearly 2 million. kr in tax cuts by this government. The worst thing is that I'm starting to believe that the Right actually believes that these are the most people. Earlier in the debate, Right-wing Tom-Christen Nilsen was up on the pulpit and criticized SV's cut in the food market because it is not the food industry that is in crisis. Cut in the food budget is that most people are going to get a little bit more to rot, that food is going to be a little bit cheaper in a year when the government budget announces that it can be negative real wages growth. The government and the Progress Party have prioritised tax cuts to billionaires while not affording kids to get glasses they need, they can't afford to give unemployed holiday money, they can't afford to get young people to live off income, and they can't afford to give municipalities a strong enough economy to cut off welfare. This is the phase after eight years of Erna Solberg's government. As politicians, we know that we cannot give priority to everything. That's why the priorities say something about what and who the party is for. The right is for the billionaires.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4397	What the government is giving priority to is the main problems we face. And what are the biggest problems where we are now? One is the infection situation and the pandemic. No one could have foreseen the year we have behind us a year ago, and there's a lot of uncertainty about the year we're going into. But it is a fact that, apart from Finland, no country has managed to deal with the actual infection situation, i.e. the number of people infected, better than Norway has done. And it's absolutely vital that we be able to keep the pandemic under control for months to come. Then we have an economy and a business life in crisis. Then I am glad that we, together with the Progress Party, were able to clear up an early crisis package that will put in place a compensation system, a system for self-employed and freelancers and all the other measures that are there. It is criticised that throughout the year we have brought various new packages. I think it is also good in the future that we have a government that is following the situation, because we have to keep the pandemic under control, but if it should get worse, we also have to react to it. And we have to get into a normal situation as quickly as possible. It is good that we have a government that comes with and comes with initiative. It is not surprising that we have better arrangements in Norway than they do in our neighbouring countries, although, of course, we also have companies that are not taken by the measures we have, and we have very many individuals in a very difficult situation. Then we will address the major problems facing the world. Emissions in Norway are falling and have been doing so for four years at a time, and with this budget we are strengthening climate action in 2021 as well. That's the beginning of a decade when we're going to cut 50-55 pst. in cooperation and with an agreement with the EU with an obligation that means that we need action to achieve these objectives. We're about to come up with a climate plan to be presented to the Stortinget and show how we're going to get this done. Not just Norway, but the whole world is in crisis. Then I am pleased that, through the agreement with the Progress Party, we are taking international responsibility where there is concern – the one with quota refugees, we are also keeping to next year, and we are maintaining international efforts through the aid rate. We also keep hold of the efforts we have internationally in climate and nature. The rainforest rate is also maintained in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4416	Unlike the representative Knutsen, who has had gray hair from the financial policy, my gray hair age is due to – just so it is clear. Having followed and participated in this debate, I am still proud of the achievements of the Progress Party in this budgetary agreement. We have significantly strengthened the compensation system for business and businesses. It wasn't good enough. Now it's much better, and it's getting more. We have strengthened the security of income for self-employed people, that is important, and we therefore ensure that pensioners get a much better and fairer purchasing power development. A lot of people talk about it, we did it -- we put money in it and prioritised it in this equation. And then we get reduced fees, just to secure Norwegian jobs and Norwegian industry. Then it's not certain that what we're doing in the charging area is enough. It's a start. There remains to be seen, but I am quite surprised that the Workers' Party is trying to ridicule the tax reductions – which are precisely to secure Norwegian jobs and limit border trade once borders open. The maritime sector shall be given its main priorities. This means that we ensure activity, that we ensure fleet renewal through the consolidation system, which is being expanded, and that we not only reverse the proposed cut in the net pay system; we strengthen the net pay system substantially. The party of progress is busy with the companies, we're busy with the jobs, and we're busy with the creation of value. We've always been, and we're always going to be. If it's, as Martin Kolberg said, just to be concerned with the money people, we'd rather live with it, because the substance of this is too important to get upset by that type of rhetoric. I think there are many business owners who wake up at night and are worried. They are concerned about their business, about their liquidity and not least about their employees. That's the reality they're now experiencing in this pandemic. The Progress Party has helped to strengthen all the crisis packages, and now we have also helped to strengthen this budget. That's what we're going to do if it's necessary, but it's not like we're doing it without getting political breakthroughs and winnings. That's a prerequisite for the Progress Party to be involved in making a deal, and I think the government parties have actually understood that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4431	Einar Förde is aware to have said that all things have an end, except for housework and hell's torment. I wonder sometimes if we could have added some of the somewhat profound characteristics that will go back from the opposition in these debates. There's something about that when we're in the Storting and we're going to caricature the situation we're in, we also have to take over the world that's around us, and how the situation is there. When we're in a pandemic, it's a pandemic that applies to everyone. The way the Norwegian community has managed to handle the virus outbreak, I think I have been good. We have managed to manage the health consequences better than any other country around us has. We also have, although Norway and Norwegian economy are in crisis, and although it is very grateful to those who are in the most exposed industries, a safety net and a welfare state of which we are to be proud, and who have connections from all sides of this room, but who also show themselves from their best side during this plurality – who have managed to use the welfare state to deal with the crisis we have, in a good way, by creating security for people's jobs and by supporting Norwegian business life. When one also looks at how the way out of the crisis comes, Norway also has good intentions to cope better. When we sum up this big session and the year 2020, one of the biggest debates we've had is that we had a gloomy outlook for one of our biggest industries, the oil industry, in ours. There we have arranged, and we have had a smaller oil price drop than one thought one would get. The project that was expected is now coming. Norway also supplies goods where prices in our export market have been successful. When we as politicians give priority, we also have to be able to raise the most important things. As a KRF, I think that one of the most important things we can do is to give the smallest priority, and that is to give families priority and make sure that they also have an economic space for action. It was important in the normal situation we were at the beginning of 2020, and at least that's important when we see this year coming to an end. For this reason, I am proud that we have a government that not only talks about increasing child welfare, but that actually does so, a government that has increased the unemployment benefit, and that in addition to it has strengthened jobs by strengthening Norwegian ownership. One thing that has almost completely drowned in the debate is that we are going to address historical changes in hydroelectric energy taxation, which is going to make us also get more investment in renewable energy, of which we need more. This I mean most of all is a debate that shows that we have a slightly confused opposition. We have not only one, but two prime minister candidates: one that's messy, and one that's a little happy. I'm thinking we can settle down with an intermediary. There are great tasks facing Norwegian society, and they manage this plurality in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4446	Then I have the difficult task of taking care not to extend the debate. As I'm the last person admitted, we're hoping it'll be like this. I still want to link some reflections to today's debate. A small summary may well be that the Centre Party has now seriously included the commentator box in Norwegian policy. The strategy is to criticise, over-city and extend, but there's little talk of renewing or thinking new. It's okay to get it on the table, especially after they put out their alternative budget, where we saw that very much of what they've been talking about was not delivered in substance. The working party has also finally shown the cards. They've talked a lot about business and industry, but at the same time they've made it clear that they have a tax bill of 7 billion. kr, which is surgically directed towards the same workplaces that we all burn to save. What the country needs now is that the infection goes down. We're going to give security to people and jobs, help those outside, get people back to work and get more legs to stand on. That will ensure the budget we are now to adopt. It also provides for the crisis packages we have delivered over the year, and also the powerful financial measures we have presented as part of this budget. Finally, I would like to thank the representatives of the Committee and also of other committees, all parties, for the debate today. There is a nice thing here in the Stortinget and in Norwegian politics that we can mean it when we say that there is a genuine commitment of all representatives and parties to the crisis that the country is facing. Although we have debates and duels and replications in a financial debate, 2020 has shown that the parties are coming together, that we are united in finding the best solutions to get Norway out of the crisis. Therefore, let there be no doubt, I sincerely believe that I would like to thank the members of the Financial Committee for their good cooperation in relation to everything we have done in relation to the coronary apathy – and also for the patience they have shown in connection with a long budgetary process at the negotiating table. But we've come to the finish line. I look forward to getting a vote on the budget, getting Norway safely through the crisis, and continuing the work ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4460	Social violence Vedum has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4465	I notice that the Right is very pleased with itself during the day and trying to rise above what everyday life is like for people. And then I notice that neither the Left, the Christian People's Party nor the Advancement Party are particularly pleased with what has emerged. It's just the right that's satisfied. The representative Kapur says that other parties only take an commentator role. One of the things that we've commented on most times today is what the situation is for the 62,200 who have been outlawed and are in danger of being terminated. But in terms of substance and what is concrete for people, Kapur from the Right does not dare to discuss why the Right believes it is right that they should lose their job. My appeal to the Right is to be a little less self-satisfied, a little bit more worried and worried about those who actually have the struggle resolve now. It's not that even if you have daily press conferences and a lot of attention, people's everyday lives are getting easier. It's getting harder. It's very tough now. It's time to start listening and watching and not just boasting by itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4472	Eigil Knutsen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4477	A brief comment to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Kapur, who attached a note to the Labour Party's tax policy. It's absolutely correct. We're increasing the wealth tax for them with the very largest stock wealth, while we're lowering the income tax for them with ordinary and low incomes, in stark contrast to what the Right has done over two major periods. They have made sure that the country's richest has received $600 in tax bills every day, while people with normal incomes have received $2 in tax bills every day. There's the difference between a champagne bottle and an empty carry bag at the store. The Labour Party has completely different dreams and visions for our country. We dream that the 200 000 now unemployed are going back to work. It's about the future of our kids, who are going to have a safe upbringing and a good school, and not least the future of our planet. We're going to cut emissions while creating opportunities and jobs for the emerging generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4484	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4501	Before the Stortinget goes to voting on the issues on today's map, the representative Ingvild Kjerkol receives the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4506	I shall give a brief explanation of vote: the Labour Party is voting against proposal No. 248, by Mr Vedum and Mr Zenterpartiet, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and proposal No. 249, from the same representative and the same party. The reason is that we have alternative proposals under consideration – in the case of proposal No. 248, in the budget chapters of the Health and Welfare Committee, and for proposal No. 249, in the fee proposition. That's not the right name, but I hope you understand what I mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4511	It's noted. The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4523	The President will propose that the presentation by the Minister of Finance at the Stortings meeting on 7 October 2020 on the Government's proposals for the State Budget and on the national budget for 2021 be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4537	A total of 138 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 2-11 and 253, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 12, from Sylvi Listhaug on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 125 and 242-252, of Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party, the proposals No 127 and 239-241, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 128-202, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 203, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 204, from Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 205-238, from Mudasar Kapur on behalf of the Right, Party of Advancement, Left and Christian People's Party The President noted that proposal No. 205, from the right hand, from the party of the forefront, from the left, and from the Christian people, you replace the assembly, which then fails. Proposal No. 253, from the Labour Party, replaces proposal No. 1 in the settings. Proposal No. 242, from the Centre Party, replaces proposal No. 124 in the vote, and proposal No. 239, by the Socialist Left Party, replaces proposal No. 126 in the setting. There is a vote on proposal No. 203 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e4839	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 128, 133, 200 and 201, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 128 sounds: ‘Frame decisions
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5105	Proposal No. 133 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a labelling system for more grass-based milk and meat production.’ Proposal No. 200 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend Section 5 of the State Pension Fund Act in order to allow direct transfer from the Fund to the United Nations Green Fund for Climate Action abroad following decisions taken in the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 201 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the traffic contract with the Fly train for the first half of 2021 so that the Air train will only operate on the Oslo S-Gardermoen-Oslo S route and the number of take-offs on the route will be halved.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5129	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 129, 142, 165, 172, 176 and 191 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 129 reads: ‘The government is asking for an electricity mobility support scheme in order to be able to lease an electric car or bicycle, using the housing support scheme model that the municipalities and the Husbank are working together to provide more people with poor advice and the need for a car with the possibility to buy or rent an electric car or bicycle, so that they can save money, benefit from the electric car benefits and contribute to cutting emissions.’ Proposal No. 142 sounds: ‘The government is asked to design a model for the fee on salmonnus in the farming industry, which provides an estimated proceeds of 900 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 165 sounds: ‘The government is asked to earmark a proportion of the additional appropriations over the cap. 571 post 64 to the municipalities that are most severely affected by the pandemic of local measures to meet the most vulnerable and vulnerable groups’ vital needs such as food, a place to sleep, health care and a safe everyday life.» [[female allowances]] [[such as refugees, beggars, homeless, migrant workers, undocumented, sex workers and children in violent homes]] Proposal No. 172 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a one-off benefit to be replaced by a 2G parental pension for all those who today receive a one-off benefit and are not students.’ Proposal No. 176 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a separate quota for climate refugees with the same reception and inclusion offers as quota refugees, and to promote such schemes internationally.’ Proposal No. 191 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back with a proposal for state support for the psychological service of students, which is currently financed by holiday fees.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5174	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 130, 170 and 202, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 130 sounds: ‘The government asks the Norwegian Space Centre and related State jobs to be moved to Tromsø’. Proposal No. 170 sounds: ‘The size asks the government, when distributed to the ferries through the roof. 572 item 60, to ensure that the proposed additional appropriations are allocated so that one third is allocated according to the ferry criteria in the cost key and two thirds according to the ferry connection used by electric ferries by 2021.» Proposal No. 202 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make animal police a nationwide unit under the Police Directorate, extending from today’s situation with established animal police in six of the 12 police districts of the country to all twelve.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5203	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 131, 132, 134, 137, 138, 143, 144, 146, 149, 152, 155, 157, 162, 164, 166, 167, 169, 171, 175, 188 and 197 of the Green Party. Proposal No. 131 reads: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that all companies with significant State ownership phase out all activities harmful to nature and climate and report on their contribution to reaching the Paris Agreement.’ Proposal No. 132 sounds: ‘The budget agrees that the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries may, in 2021: provide the Export Credit Guarantee Institute with the power to provide commitments for new guarantees within a framework for new guarantees and old responsibilities of a further 2 000 million. SEK in construction loans within the shipbuilding industry and that investments are reserved to reduce the emissions from the ship's fleet. provide the Export Credit Guarantee Institute with the power to provide commitments for new guarantees within the framework of 2 billion. crowns of renewable investment in developing countries.» Proposal No. 134 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish its own programme for agro-ecological research under Nibio.’ Proposal No. 137 sounds like: ‘The government requests the establishment of a subsidy scheme whereby agricultural holdings may apply for support for climate action such as replacement of oil fires, installation of solar panels, biogas production and the like, and compensation for lost income due to extreme weather.’ Proposal No. 138 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a tourist tax for destinations where local and regional destination companies consider this measure to be necessary.’ Proposal No. 143 sounds: «The government is asking to set up the production fee on salmon, trout and rainbow trout in a way that provides host municipalities with sustainable farming rates [[minimum with escape, lice and release to the environment]] Proposal No. 144 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish an investment aid scheme for farmers who move to closed plants or other forms of sustainable farming technology that do not deliver emissions to the environment.’;» Proposal No. 146 sounds: ‘The government requests the setting up of the large-scale business compensation mechanism to include interest on late payment to the public in the definition of fixed, unavoidable costs, including government interest on deferred tax and tax.’ Proposal No. 149 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal that introduces a moratorium in 2021 for house owners’ opportunity to terminate leases due to non-payment when tenants are enterprises that are affected by market failure due to covid-19, as long as no payment does not exceed the amount guaranteed by a house lease guarantee or deposit.’;» Proposal No. 152 sounds: ‘The government requests the setting up of the large-scale business compensation scheme to include the employer’s period of leave in the definition of unavoidable costs.’ Proposal No. 155 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a proposal for a separate scheme for further compensation for holdings particularly severely affected by local measures for the protection of infection. The scheme may be managed through grants to the municipalities which subsequently allocate to the recipient concerned.’;» Proposal No. 157 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a national network of urban ecological centres, supporting and demonstrating model projects for green urban development, insect-friendly residential and urban food production, and facilitating green innovation and meeting places for people, developers and other actors.’ Proposal No. 162 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to come back with proposals to make the Storting set an exact rate for the property tax instead of fixing maximum rates.’ Proposal No. 164 sounds: ‘The budget shall be requested by the Government as soon as 26 March 2021 and, in the context of the revised national budget, shall give status to the use of the supplementary appropriations over chapters. 571 post 64 in order to fully offset the additional costs of the municipalities which have been hit most by the pandemic versus the poorly hit municipalities and, if necessary, to propose additional appropriations to ensure this for the whole of 2021.» [[female allowances]] Proposal No. 166 reads: ‘The government is asking the Government to identify, as soon as possible, the needs for action and funding for local action to vulnerable and vulnerable groups and to come back with proposals for further assistance.’ Proposal No. 167 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the one-off appropriations for maintenance and rehabilitation in Norwegian municipalities over the top. 576 item 60 so that it can also be used for projects started in 2021.» Proposal No. 169 sounds: «The government asks the government to change the purpose of the cap. 576 item 60 so that maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading of buildings and installations contribute to environmental upgrading, energy efficiency improvement and market growth for environmental buildings and environmental rehabilitation that is better than the applicable regulatory requirements.’;» Proposal No. 171 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to transfer responsibility for all lone minor asylum seekers to the child protection system.’ Proposal No. 175 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a scheme for climate change refugees to Norway following the model of the Pacific Access Category scheme in New Zealand for persons displaced from their homes due to: climate change/natural disasters but fall outside the definition of refugee status. the 1951 Refugee Convention and the 1967 Protocol.» Proposal No. 188 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a grant scheme for municipalities that bear high costs for temporary employment because of their size. major rotation or unmanned fixed positions.’;» Proposal No. 197 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back with a proposal on how to guarantee new graduates the right to a daily allowance if they become unemployed at the end of their education.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5333	There is a vote on proposal No. 193 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a grant scheme targeted at helping the weakest groups in society when society is shut down; as refugees, beggars, homeless, migrant workers, undocumented, sex workers and children in violent homes are all extremely vulnerable groups.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5350	There is a vote on proposal No. 136, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to increase support for Matsentralen Norway to enable them to redistribute more food and reduce food waste.’ The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5368	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 145, 148, 151, 153, 158, 161, 163, 168, 185, 189, 195, 196 and 199 of the Greens. Proposal No. 145 sounds: ‘The government requests the setting up of a large-scale compensation scheme for large-scale enterprises so that serving sites can count on stock losses, e.g.: food and drink, in the definition of determined costs. This shall assume that the goods are sold or made available, as far as possible, to non-governmental organisations, institutions, etc. to prevent food waste.’» Proposal No. 148 sounds: ‘The government requests the setting up of a large-scale compensation scheme for large-scale enterprises so that the owner of the house can cover all or part of the ownership of the enterprises without resulting in reduced compensation.’ [[the part of determined costs not covered]] Proposal No. 151 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up business compensation schemes so that enterprises with owners of tax havens: [[including third-country jurisdictions on the EU blacklist of non-cooperating jurisdictions]] Proposal No. 153 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the inclusion of start-ups in the compensation scheme for large-scale enterprises. This should also apply to establishments which were started after the outbreak of the virus but under a less invasive infectious protection regime than is currently the case.» Proposal No. 158 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promptly investigate and come back with alternatives to downscaling the project with new government quarters using existing government buildings. Particular attention shall be paid to how to save money and construction time, for example by continuing to use R5 and UD's premises on the Victoria terrace and scraping several of the buildings you are now planning, such as the so-called D-building that in the cityscape will become a wall down towards Youngstorget and the eastern part of the centre." Proposal No. 161 sounds: ‘The government is asking for 5 million. crowns within the defence framework of measures to combat harassment and bullying and measures to increase diversity, transparency and equality.’;» Proposal No. 163 sounds: «The government is asked to come back with a proposal on how students working alongside the studies can receive income insurance in the event of unemployment.» Proposal No. 168 sounds: ‘The government will be asked to report on the achievement of its objectives shortly after 26 March 2021. 576.60, which is a one-off appropriation of €2.5 billion. crowns of an earmarked grant to municipalities for the maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading of construction. The need for additional appropriations for this purpose in 2021 shall also be assessed.’;» Proposal No. 185 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a national asthma and allergy programme according to the model of Finland.’ Proposal No. 189 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an overview of the actual use of money in Norwegian municipalities in the context of the implementation of the drug reform, planned in 2021, in comparison with that provided in the free resources to meet the €2.4 billion step-up of the Stortinget objective. crowns in increased appropriations for the drug field in the period 2016–2020.» Proposal No. 195 sounds: ‘The government is asking to wait for the introduction of VAT on alternative treatment for personnel groups waiting to receive an application for authorisation under the Health Care Professional Act until any refusal has been granted.’ Proposal No. 196 sounds: «The government is asked to come back with a proposal that workers who lose their job may retain the daily allowance during re-education/re-education. The scheme should be organised in such a way as to enable it to meet the needs of persons affected by redundancy, such as: in the case of requirements for seagoing service in the labour market or for a different training from the previous.’» Proposal No. 199 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure the participation of women in decision-making processes as part of the assistance.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5449	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 154, 156, 179-181 and 190, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 154 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider extending the period of leave to 60 weeks for employees who were on leave before 1 July 2020, so as to permit leave in companies that are seriously in the summer, e.g. in the case of travel and catering, no staff need to resign.’;» Proposal No. 156 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a proposal to implement the UN sustainability objectives as a planning framework in all municipalities, municipal authorities and counties.’ Proposal No. 179 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to develop better cooperation and to develop a common electronic journal between specialist and primary health services.’ Proposal No. 180 sounds: ‘The government asked the government to investigate an increase of the Norwegian hospital cover to 85 pst. in line with OECD recommendations.» Proposal No. 181 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back to the Stortinget with suggestions on how Norway can increase the number of fixed intensities in Norwegian hospitals by 100 and the number of monitoring sites by 300, and at the same time train enough qualified health professionals to do so.’ Proposal No. 190 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a related accounting in the context of the overall related strategy and action plan announced in December 2020. The accounts relating to the accounts shall be coordinated with the work in progress with a national survey relating to the family.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5494	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 160 and 194 from the Greens. Proposal No. 160 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement a reform that ensures that periodic penalty payments and charges resulting from administrative errors or delays follow a proportionality principle and do not unduly affect small businesses.’ Proposal No. 194 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to evaluate how Norway has made sure that the most vulnerable groups have access to vital needs such as food, a place to sleep, health care and a safe everyday life, and to come back with proposals for preparedness improvements such as financial support schemes and emergency solutions such as safe places of residence and public food supply.’ [[such as refugees, beggars, homeless, migrant workers, undocumented, sex workers and children in violent homes]] The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5518	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 135, 139-141, 147, 150, 159, 173, 174, 177, 178, 182-184, 186, 187, 192 and 198 from the Green Party. Proposal No. 135 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a food grain stand-by.’ Proposal No. 139 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with an assessment of the potential for living cultural history, tourism and nature conservation by, for example, cooperation between the Swedish Coastal Agency, the SNO and the Ministry of Culture on the manning of individual lighthouses along the Norwegian coast.’ Proposal No. 140 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the State’s grant and guarantee income for artists in order to regulate scholarships and guarantee income in line with salary growth.’ Proposal No. 141 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start talks with the municipality of Trondheim and Trøndelag County to ensure the financing of the upgrading of the buildings currently housed in the Nordenfjeldische Kunstindustriemuseum in Trondheim, so that the national values of the museum can be preserved.’ Proposal No. 147 sounds: ‘The government asks for a proposal that all companies with a large turnover fall, regardless of previous leave, may be partially compensated for compensation of compensation of employees who would otherwise not be profitable for the company at work.’ Proposal No. 150 sounds: ‘The government requests the setting up of business compensation schemes so that enterprises receiving grants must provide information on real owners and that this information is made publicly available.’ Proposal No. 159 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the ABE reform, focusing on assessing whether the reform has weakened the service provision.’ Proposal No. 173 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of the increasing length of proceedings in the Conciliation Councils and proposals to reduce them.’ Proposal No. 174 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of the decline in criminal proceedings in the conflict councils that have been in progress since 2009 and measures to increase the number of criminal cases dealt with.’ Proposal No. 177 sounds like: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the AKSON Joint Municipal Journal Resolution project is put to public consultation.’ Proposal No. 178 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit an assessment of the project with joint municipal journal solution AKSON, so that the Storting can make decisions on the project, estimated at 22 billion. kronor between 2021 and 2040 in expected investment costs, change and conversion costs and expected operating, management and further development costs.» Proposal No. 182 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for increased number of rehabilitation sites and activities in the specialist health service and in the municipalities, and to return to the Stortinget with a proposal to that effect. An upgrade plan for rehabilitation, including training of professional staff, shall also be explored and proposed in order to provide timely assistance to people with rehabilitation needs and potential.’;» Proposal No. 183 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Namsos Hospital becomes one of the places where adaptations are made to the new rescue helicopter as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 184 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a pilot project in which participants may retain a partial follow-up from the paediatric psychiatry at the same time as they are phased into adult psychiatry. The aim of the project shall be to gain experience in order to establish a permanent transitional arrangement in the long term, ensuring a smoother transition between the two systems.’;» Proposal No. 186 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a faster life support for older people’s certification of all municipal health and care institutions.’ Proposal No. 187 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives for pilot projects for the co-location of the elderly and students in new housing and care institutions, in accordance with the model of the Netherlands.’ Proposal No. 192 reads: ‘The government calls for the security network of people with mental challenges in times of crisis to be strengthened and for the support of low-threshold helplines and chat forums for people with mental health challenges and mental disorders of all ages to be increased.’ Proposal No. 198 sounds like: ‘In the light of the development of the harvest, the government is asked to resume a strategy to promote cooperation between civil society in Norway and Belarus, in line with the commitment until 2014.’» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5625	There is a vote on proposal No. 239, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Council Decision • No. Title Kroner 1 State administration etc. ... 7 678 800000 2 Family and consumer... 51 577 727 000 3 Culture etc. ... 27 907 787 000 4 Foreign... 44 567 386 000 5 Justice... 36 749 615 000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing... 18 047 163 000 7 Labour and social... 515 275 418 000 8 Defence... 57 988 547 000 9 Industry... 15 752 007 000 10 Fisheries... 1 807 904 000 11 Agriculture... 20 226 217 000 12 Oil and energy... -68 722 236 000 13 Environment... 17 415 306 000 14 Control and supervision... 705 202 000 15 Health... 239 116 876 000 16 Education and research... 85 866 050 000 17 Transport and communication... 77 608 967 000 18 Framework transfers to the local sector etc. ... 207 045 846 000 19 Random expenditure and revenue... 3 943 232 000 20 Grand total, financial administration, etc. ... 38 977 117 000 21 Taxes, levies and customs duties... -1 095 691 811000 22 Dividends, etc. ... -26 629 102 000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 277 214 018 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5640	There is a vote on proposal No. 240, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to design a model for the fee on salmonnuts in the farming industry and to come back with a proposal in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5658	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 127 and 241, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 127 sounds like: ‘As from the 2022 budget, the Government is asked to report on the consistency of the draft budget with Norway’s climate commitments under the Paris Agreement. The costs of climate action shall, as far as possible, be set out in the draft budget.’;» Proposal No. 241 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a specific crisis package for the Groruddalen and Oslo South, as well as for urban areas facing similar challenges in other cities, with particular emphasis on youth/young adult employment measures, and to return to the Stortinget by the latest in the revised budget 2021.’» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5682	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 242 and 246 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 242 sounds: «Council Decision • No. Title Kroner 1 State administration etc. ... 6 757 200000 2 Family and consumer... 50 937 697 000 3 Culture etc. ... 27 907 237 000 4 Foreign... 40 633 386 000 5 Justice... 36 888 808 000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing... 16 736 949 000 7 Labour and social... 514 117 818 000 8 Defence... 59 500 347 000 9 Industry... 24 339 107 000 10 Fisheries... 2 152 504 000 11 Agriculture... 20 857 007 000 12 Oil and energy... -69 261 756 000 13 Environment... 14 705 306 000 14 Control and monitoring... 679 302 000 15 Health... 239 676 197 000 16 Education and research... 85 676 950000 17 Transport and communication... 80 064 567 000 18 Framework transfers to the local sector etc. ... 205 514 146 000 19 Random expenditure and revenue... 2 888 232 000 20 Stortinget, FinanzAdministrative etc. ... 38 965 917 000 21 Taxes, levies and duties... -1 059 892 811000 22 Dividends etc. ... -26 629 102000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 313 215 008000» Proposal No. 246 sounds: «The government is asking the government to expand the specialist health service offer in Alta with a maternity ward and necessary emergency functions. It has to be assumed that a new hospital will be built in Hammerfest and that hospitals in Finnmark will work together in a network model to provide the whole population with an equivalent quality of health.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5704	There is a vote on proposal No. 248, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the imposition of VAT for alternative treatment until a comprehensive review of the alternative register and the law on alternative treatment has been carried out, in order to arrive at a better model to ensure patient safety and criteria that qualify for exemption from VAT.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5721	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 245 and 249, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 245 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of the large-scale business compensation scheme so that the employer’s period of leave is included in the definition of unavoidable costs, applicable for the months in which the employer’s period I in the case of leave is 10 days.’ Proposal No. 249 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide adequate information to the Government on the size of the groups that are assessed for authorisation under the Health Personnel Act and on the evaluations and criteria that apply.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5745	There is a vote on proposal No. 125, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a communication on charging policy that addresses, inter alia, the social and geographical distribution effects of different charges.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5763	There is a vote on proposal No. 252, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess a transfer of Norwegian space centres and related State jobs to Tromsø and to notify the Stortinget no later than the submission of the revised national budget 2021.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5782	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 243, 244 and 247 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 243 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that public procurement is used to increase demand for Norwegian goods and services.’ Proposal No. 244 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to notify as soon as possible a further extension of the period of leave beyond 52 weeks and to present a case to the Stortinget no later than January 2021, with a view to extending until 1 August 2021.’;» Proposal No. 247 sounds: ‘The government asks for EUR 30 million. kronor to Lukas Hospice, Malvik for the entire pilot period.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5811	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 250 and 251 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 250 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure, as soon as possible, that the elderly living in an institution or receiving home help receive the dental treatment they require.’ Proposal No. 251 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back to the proposal for RNB 2021 with proposals to strengthen the economy of mountain governments in 2021.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e5835	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6106	There is a vote on proposal No. 253, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘No. Title Kroner 1 State administration etc. ... 7 479 800000 2 Family and consumer... 50 169 097 000 3 Culture etc. ... 28 210 137 000 4 Foreign... 43 135 586 000 5 Justice... 37 055 408 000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing... 17 324 249 000 7 Labour and social... 514 302 868 000 8 Defence... 58 488 547 000 9 Industry... 18 514 307 000 10 Fisheries... 1 844 604 000 11 Agriculture... 20 283 207 000 12 Oil and energy... -69 381 456 000 13 Environment... 15 415 306 000 14 Control and monitoring... 705 202 000 15 Health... 241 534 847 000 16 Education and research... 85 911 950000 17 Transport and communication... 80 221 367 000 18 Framework transfers to the local sector etc. ... 202 228 746 000 19 Random expenditure and revenue... 2 710 682 000 20 Grand total, financial administration, etc. ... 38 954 617 000 21 Taxes, levies and customs duties... -1 066 969 411000 22 Dividends etc. ... -26 629 102 000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 301 510 558 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6122	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 3, 5, 7, 9–11 and 204, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate the increased use of party-led employee skills development measures.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that establishments which have extensive economic operations but do not have ‘requirements for purpose’ and thus do not pay taxes are protected by an economic compensation, such as: enterprises for permanent organisation of work, foundations, non-profit institutions serving households and a number of activities such as culture and museum operations.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the circular economy is part of Enova’s mandate.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to entrust State power with the task of developing a national hydrogen infrastructure development plan towards 2030. The plan shall describe the need for production, transport and demand given different scenarios.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make use of the scope of State aid legislation and to facilitate the contribution of the instrument to a higher aid intensity for major industrial projects.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to draw up a stepping-up plan for the placing on the market of advanced biofuels up to 40 pst. in 2030 without double counting.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a national charging infrastructure strategy, both on land and at sea.’ Proposal No. 204 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to plan emergency support for students for the spring semester 2021, so that the arrangements are clear when appropriate, and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6177	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government, as part of strengthening the Norwegian export promotion and formalising the role of the EEAS, is asked to develop a strategy for economic diplomatic work on the basis of a model of the strategy of the Danish Government. The strategy shall pay particular attention to how to create good incentives for increased work on export promotion at foreign stations and the activities for which they should be responsible.’;» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6194	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of the financing system for private kindergartens, including an assessment of the impact on employee pension conditions in private kindergartens, as well as an assessment of a system in which the pension costs of private kindergartens are borne on account. The Government is asked to return to the Stortinget with investigations and proposals in the revised national budget for 2021.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6211	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to plan for students for the spring semester 2021, so that the arrangements are clear when they become applicable, and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6228	There is a vote on proposal No. 205, from the right, from the front of the party, from the left, and from the Christian party. The proposal reads as follows: «Council Decision • No. Title Kroner 1 State administration etc. ... 7 475 752 000 2 Family and consumer... 50 880 449 000 3 Culture etc. ... 27 003 530 000 4 Foreign... 44 120 740 000 5 Justice... 36 646 378 000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing... 16 292 314 000 7 Labour and social... 508 137 123 000 8 Defence... 58 208 196 000 9 Industry... 15 725 403 000 10 Fisheries... 1 839 097 000 11 Agriculture... 20 257 225 000 12 Oil and energy... -69 583 421 000 13 Environment... 14 626 923 000 14 Control and monitoring... 705 202 000 15 Health... 241 154 957 000 16 Education and research... 85 187 566 000 17 Transport and communication... 80 503 583 000 18 Framework transfers to the local sector etc. ... 197 897 362 000 19 Random expenditure and revenue... 3 943 232 000 20 Storting, financial administration, etc. ... 38 909 252 000 21 Taxes, levies and duties... -1 055 202 950000 22 Dividends etc. ... -26 629 102 000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 298 098 811000»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6244	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 209, 220, 221 and 232, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and Christian Party. Proposal No. 209 sounds: ‘The government has earmarked $30 million for Hospice Malvik and $30 million for children’s hospice in Kristiansand for the entire pilot period.’ Proposal No. 220 sounds: ‘The government is asking that persecuted Christians, Ahmadiyya and Jesidian refugees be given priority as a group and as an individual when transferring refugees are taken out.’ Proposal No. 221 sounds like: ‘The government is asked to change the maintenance requirement in the case of family immigration so that benefits under the Introduction Act are not taken into account [[both the requirement for future and previous income]] [[from 01.01.2021: benefits under the Integration Act]] Proposal No. 232 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to continue the capital grant to private kindergartens at 2020 level, initially for the first half of 2021, and to set up a rapid-working sample there, inter alia. The KS and PBL are involved in the investigation of the financing of private kindergartens, including the possibility of loans from the Husbank. The government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of the capital grant for private kindergartens for the second half of 2021 in the context of the revised national budget.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6272	The proposals from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party were accepted by 47 votes to 41. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.07.46]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6277	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 206, 223, 224, 227 and 233, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and Christian Party. Proposal No. 206 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide, in the context of the revised national budget 2021, an overview of all measures in the budget that have the main rationale for greenhouse gas emission reduction and, as far as possible, an overview of the impact of each measure measured in kronor per tonne of reduction or increase of binding, as well as the status of the work of the Technical Climate Assessment Committee.’» Proposal No. 223 sounds: «The government is asked to initiate negotiations to enter into the transport and storage partnership with State ownership in the event of an extension of the infrastructure to more than 1,5 million tonnes of CO 2 per year.» Proposal No. 224 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting on how the State can take part of the revenues from future CO 2 storage permits. The assessment shall include taxation and government ownership options including the SAD model.’;» Proposal No. 227 sounds: ‘The government is asking for close monitoring of cost and risk control in Longships in such a way that potential significant adverse deviations in the projects are identified early and that the government uses the scope of the agreement to keep the costs of the State as low as possible.’; Proposal No. 233 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that Norwegian language is initially used for planned state investments or maintenance to enter the market in 2021 in the maritime sector, but will consider whether it is necessary to open English in certain cases.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6323	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 211, 236, 238, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Party of Left and Christian Peoples. Proposal No. 211 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to Stortingen with an efficiency strategy for the public sector.’ Proposal No. 236 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assess changes in the VAT code for works prices in such a way that the contractor does not have to report and pay VAT on claims before the dispute is finally settled.’ Proposal No. 238 sounds like: ‘In line with the Storting’s decision on authorisation system based on the EU Tobacco Directive, the Government is asking to authorise the sale of nicotine and nicotine-free e-cigarettes without delay.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6352	There is a vote on proposal No. 228 from the right, the party of progress, the left, and the Christian party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to grant official authorisation to naprapates and osteopates and to review whether acupuncture officers are to be authorised as health professionals. Until the assessment of acupuncturists has been completed, VAT exemptions shall be continued.’;» The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6369	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 212, 216, 217, 231, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and Christian Party. Proposal No. 212 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals at the latest in the revised national budget 2021 to further improve the ferry relief system so that even more ferry relief projects can be realised.» Proposal No. 216 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to ensure progress in the planning of Glommacrossing on Rv. 22 in Lillestrøm.’» Proposal No. 217 sounds: ‘The government is asking for safe progress in the E16 Bjørum-Skaret project.’ Proposal No. 231 sounds like: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative with the Swedish authorities in the first half of 2021 with a view to concluding an agreement on the common Norwegian-Swedish border station at Magnormoen with the Swedish authorities before the revised national budget. The government is asked to return to the revised national budget with a report to enable the implementation of the border police station/Magnormo once the financing of the entire project has been completed.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6403	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 215 and 229 from the right, the party of progress, the left and the Christian party. Proposal No. 215 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to ensure progress in the planning of R & D. 19-E6 Moss port when quality assurance has been completed.» Proposal No. 229 reads: ‘The Government is asked to extend the building loan guarantee scheme in GIEK to cover advance guarantees, so that the GIEK can provide advance guarantees of up to 50 pst.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6428	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 214 and 234, from the right, the party of progress, the left, and the Christian party. Proposal No. 214 sounds: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to the Mineral Law Committee by proposing improvements and simplifications in the Mineral Law, including in the boundaries with other legislation, to ensure, inter alia, that coordination is good and time use is as low as possible. The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.» Proposal No. 234 sounds like: ‘The Government requests the regulatory review of motor caravans/dwelling vehicles with European type-approval to be automatically approved for registration in Norway without the manufacture of a single authorisation at a traffic station, and makes proposals on how to do so at the latest in relation to the revised national budget in 2021.’» The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6452	There is a vote on proposal No. 219, from the right, the party of progress, the left, and the Christian party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to put in place, by 1 April at the latest, a system of approval for private operators that will offer NIPT, in line with the leaders of the Finnish majority of Stortinget. [[2019-2020]] 296 L The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6469	There is a vote on proposal No. 230, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to extend the Innovation Norway Scheme for the Condemnation of Ships in Short Sea Shipping to offshore vessels. The final criteria for the scheme are drawn up in line with the State aid rules.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6490	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6495	Then the result becomes 87 votes in favour and 1 vote against the proposal. – The proposal is therefore a welcome one. There is a vote on proposal No. 235, from the right, from the front of the party, from the left, and from the Christian party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up proposals for a system of differentiated periodic penalty payments and to come back with an appropriate assessment of such a proposal for the Grand total.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6514	There is a vote on proposal No. 237, from the right, the party of progress, the left, and the Christian party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to the revised national budget with proposals for the offer of NIPT tests to pregnant women also under public control during 2021, in line with the leaders of the Finnish majority of the Stortinge majority. 296 L [[2019-2020]] The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6534	Can we take the vote again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6539	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6551	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 207, 208, 210, 213, 218, 222, 225 and 226 from the Right, Party of Advancement, Left and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 207 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider solutions to stop patient transhipment on Skaidi for patient travel between Alta and Hammerfest.’ Proposal No. 208 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the regional children’s palliative teams in order to ensure that a good and equivalent is given to children and their families.’ Proposal No. 210 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that criminals convicted of child abuse are given priority in the pay queue so that they can go directly from judgment to atonement.’ Proposal No. 213 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the grant to volunteer centres and that the current distribution is continued in 2021 with a separate breakdown, so that the funds are allocated by voluntary body rather than by voluntary body. the population.’» Proposal No. 218 sounds: ‘The government asks the Eastfold model for learning outcomes with organisational needs developed by ASVL [[National Association of Works Cooperations]] Proposal No. 222 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review whether current departmental buildings can continue to be used as an alternative to building steps 2 and/or 3 in a new government quarter. The assessment shall be presented to the State budget for 2022.» Proposal No. 225 sounds: ‘The government is asking to return to Stortinget with an explanation of how Langskip is organised, who owns the technology that is being developed and demonstrated and how it can be facilitated so that society can get as much back to the development and demonstration of technology through state support.’ Proposal No. 226 reads: ‘The government is asked to facilitate as much of the technology being developed and demonstrated in Longships and other learning from the project as possible to be exploited in Norway.’ All other parties have indicated their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6664	Proposal No. 205, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and Christian People's Party, replaces the Committee's position on you and is already avowed. It is added over IV. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6680	It shall be weighed over V and VII. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6694	It shall be added to II, III, VI, VIII and IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6717	The President will propose that the draft representative be dealt with in accordance with Rule 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure, that the representatives be reviewed for at least one day and then put on the agenda. The representative, Mr Aasrud, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6724	The Labour Party sees no reason for us to deal with this matter under the urgency paragraph, so we ask that it be sent to the Committee in the ordinary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6729	Are there any others who are asking for the floor to explain the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6734	The central party supports the proposal of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6739	SV also supports the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6744	For the sake of order: the Progress Party supports the proposal by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6749	Then it's noted. Then we go to voting on the way in which the minutes are handled. 168. Alternatively, the President’s proposal to deal with Document 8:71 L under Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure and the proposal of the Workers’ Party to send it to the Committee in an ordinary manner shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6763	The President's proposals have thus been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-03.ana.ud377e6779	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. The president reminds me that tomorrow's meeting will start at noon. 9th@item: inlistbox Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
