ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e57	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Mona Fagerås, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e69	I have seen the need to promote a representative proposal on behalf of the representatives of Himanshu Gulati, Erlend Wiborg, Silje Hemdal, Tor André Johnsen, Bengt Rune Strifeldt and myself to equate fixed benches and chairs, and I ask the President that this matter be dealt with urgently in accordance with Rule 39(c). After all, it's all about performing Christmas services for as many families as possible and people who have been lonely for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e74	Mr Knag Fylkesnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e79	On behalf of Audun Lysbakken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Karin Andersen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to save healthy businesses from bankruptcy pending compensation. I ask for dialogue with the presidency, so that we can deal with it quickly, but in committee, based on the seriousness of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e84	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e102	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e107	The presidency's attitude concerns the evaluation of the Grand Duchy's building project The Prince's Gate 26. The project included, in addition to a total conversion of the Prince's Gate 26, the construction of a new postal and goods station under Wessels Square and a new entrance tunnel from the Rådhusgat to the mail and goods station and the landfill garage. In a decision taken in June 2017, the Stortinget asked the Presidency to ensure that after the construction project, an evaluation report with learning points was prepared that the Stortinget could include in later construction projects. The last part of the construction project was completed in September 2019, and in the first half of 2020, KPMG carried out an external evaluation of the project. Since the evaluation is based on a decision taken by a magnificence, the Presidency considers it perfectly natural that the evaluation and its follow-up should be presented to the Stortinget. The KPMG evaluation report contains many useful learning points for future construction projects in Stortinget. Like the National Audit Office's report on the construction project of 2017, KPMG in its report describes serious shortcomings in the planning and implementation of the project. A lot can be said, and have been said, about what went wrong in this project. I would like to focus here primarily on how the many recommendations contained in the report should be followed up in the light of future projects in Stortinget. However, I would first like to make a few comments on the comprehensive focus of the evaluation report on the fact that the causes of over-costs in the project are largely due to shortcomings in the early stages of the construction project. As you know, the construction project has been running through several presidencies and major periods, all the way back to the period 2009–2013, where the main premises for the project were made. Options taken between 2009 and 2013 resulted in a lack of time in the design phase, unrealistic deadlines and a project organisation that was not adapted to the complexity or scope of the project. In this context, I am thinking in particular of the fact that State Building was not chosen as a builder, and that it was given too tight a lead that completion would be right after the roll-out election in 2017. From this we can learn that decisions taken at the early stage of the project could have a decisive impact on both the project period and the final result. This is highlighted in both the KPMG report and the National Audit Office’s investigation. Before looking at how the presidency sees fit to follow up the evaluation report, I would also like to mention that the KPMG in the report acknowledges that the Stortinget has received through the project a functional and modern construction and a postal and goods service that meets security requirements. In addition, there is an alternative exit and entry from the garage, which also ensures important safety concerns for the Storting. As the KPMG refers to in the report, the lack of security measures became an important reason for the project in the wake of the terrorist incidents on 22 July, in addition to the construction status of the Prince’s Gate on 26 July. I would like to stress that the Presidency considers that all the recommendations contained in the evaluation report should be followed up. The size, presidency and administration have already taken several measures as a result of experience with the construction project and previous reports. These include: adopted a building and lease regulations based on what is otherwise applicable in the country. The involvement of State Buildings in Stortinget’s construction projects is an important element of that Regulation. The recommendations in the evaluation report shall be followed up — whether it is in the further follow-up of actions already undertaken or in the case of further actions. In Stortingen's building and rental regulations, as it says today, state buildings are generally intended to build for us in projects with a cost-framework of more than 300 million. kr. Following a concrete assessment, according to the Regulation, Stortinget may also request State Building to assume the building owner’s responsibility for projects with a lower cost framework. The Presidency considers that, in the light of the evaluation report, there is a need to review the division of labour in construction projects between the Property Department of the Administration of the Stortinge and Statsbygg. The Presidency therefore considers that the building and rental regulations should be amended in such a way that state buildings have more construction responsibilities than those resulting from today’s regulations. The threshold for the submission of decisions on the launch of pre-projects to the Stortinget has been set at 150 million. kr. The same applies to major changes to a project. The Presidency believes that this can also be an appropriate threshold for the construction of state buildings as a general rule. This will mean a halving of the threshold for when state buildings as a general rule are to be builders, from 300 million. NOK 150 million. kr. The presidency's attitude has also clarified the measures already taken and planned in a number of other areas, as well as the proposals in the building and lease regulations, which I have now mentioned. I might come back in a later article to say more. I just want to end by saying, now we're setting the finish line for the Prince's Gate 26. The project has given us a safer, more time-real and efficient construction and postal and goods reception, but we are putting very demanding years behind us. We've made mistakes, we've had strong criticism, we've learned, we've changed, and for the future, Stortinget will handle projects of both this size and significantly less in a completely different way – and thanks for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e137	I think all of us who have seen the bill for the construction project – I am talking about everyone who has followed the process, seen the dishes and the reports and have read this setting – see what an incredibly embarrassing idea this has been for Stortinget. There are a number of confessions from the presidency in this setting, and it means SV is in place. There are also a number of points where the Presidency says that procedures and organisation are significantly better, that internal competence is increased, and that more external competence is now being deployed in projects of a certain size. In this, there is also, as I understand it, an understanding that an enterprise like Stortinget could hardly have adequate competence on large construction projects. This means that the competence must be guaranteed externally from very early projects. That is also what the presidency is proposing today. SV will support the proposals promoted by the Presidency. But let me just say that it is difficult to fully assess whether the changes that lie here are adequate answers to the conclusions and experiences that have now been made. Nevertheless, according to SV's view, there is a clear step in the right direction. At the same time, it will first be in practice that we will see whether these changes are sufficient, because in the future, such projects can only be done in a better way. The tab quota is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e144	The National Audit Office's report of 2017 states that the first contact with Statsbyggen took place in autumn 2013. This means that issues of professional assistance of the type represented by State Building were not addressed until the planning of the project was well under way and important decisions had already been taken. This is, in our opinion, some of the core of the problem. It is therefore essential to amend the rules governing the construction and rental of Stortingen relating to the use of state buildings. The Christian People's Party supports the Presidency's recommendation for a decision. This case is extensive and has gone on for a long time. The scale of the scandal became visible to all when the Riksrevision, at the request of Stortinget itself, went through the entire project from a to. The report from the Riksrevision was very clear in its criticism and also led to the big decision, which is the background for the matter here today. The evaluation report is clear. It is as clear in its findings and conclusions as the Riksrevision in its time, although of course these are two different documents for different purposes. I agree with the presidency that the KPMG evaluation report contains many useful learning points for future construction projects here on the Stortinget. The report describes serious deficiencies in the planning and implementation of the project. When I read the presidency's attitude, I notice that a number of measures have been taken to ensure that we avoid similar scandals in the future, and that's good. This goes both on the role of State Building, which I was concerned about, but also on the implementation of several other measures. That's good, but I have to say it seems a little credible that the presidency doesn't recognize errors to a greater extent. The setting is good for descriptions of the actions started, but in my opinion it is weak in recognising the actual errors that have been made. There is reason to recall the severity of this matter. The excess was very large, and the project was out of control. No quality assurance had been carried out in line with the Financial Management Regulations of the State, and there were too few real needs assessments of the measures as the project increased in complexity. As I've been doing, the project just got off the hook. It surprises me that the presidency has not taken this further into account in its position. A greater degree of humility towards the mistakes that have been made, I think I would dress the Storting in this matter, but most important now is that the Storting learns from this matter, and that the evaluation report is taken seriously. We have reason to believe that is being done. We can't risk something like that happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e157	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e162	Thanks to the rapporteur, who has thoroughly reviewed the matter. I refer the representative to page 6, where someone who clearly sees that it is important to get straight from the jump edge, and you didn't. The Presidency has also said that the construction project has been carried out through several presidencys, including during the presidency of Dag Terje Andersen, including in particular. current National Auditor Foss and former representatives Korsberg, Chaudhry, Nybakk, Heimdal and Højbrätten. There is a period back to 2009–2013 where the project’s premises were largely set. We have also noted in the presidency that the evaluation report just highlights that the cost excesses in the construction project, which are not due to the extension of scope, are largely due to shortcomings in the early stages of the construction project. There are important learning points, but also supported by the report and the National Audit Office’s review, that decisions taken at the early stage of the project could have a decisive impact on the construction period and the final result. The choices made in the period 2009–2013, the absence of State Buildings as builders, and the tightness of the fact that completion would simply be for the 2017 decision, were among the reasons why the project lacked time in the design phase, had unrealistic deadlines and a project organisation that was simply not adapted to the complexity or scope of the project. There is reason to stress that these conditions are an important part of learning, as they are highlighted by several of the interviewers and by those who have prepared the report, as one of the main causes of the challenges that would arise later in the project. The Presidency has also noted that the report highlights that from 2015, action has been taken that has improved to some extent the follow-up and implementation of the project, and that there has been a much better structure in the reporting of the project and clearer role and responsibilities – not insignificant action. It also shows that the financial framework was significantly increased later, and that the Stortinget decided on the last agreed cost framework for the project only in the spring of 2018, by over 2 billion. kr. Now, when the bill is settled, it's worth mentioning that it's going to be $290 million. kr under the last adopted cost framework, which was established in the spring of 2018. The findings, conclusions and recommendations of the evaluation report set out in the case are important and also show that the measures already taken by the Presidency and Administration of the United Kingdom as a result of their experience and previous reports show that they have been learned and have been taken for the future. If it lasts, it will turn out, but the starting point is significantly different from what started in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e175	It is with some wonder that I read this evaluation report, because it does not begin where it is interesting to begin, namely that the Stortinget has never been presented with this project as a whole. That's where the control failure comes in. If a billion projects are to be carried out, it must be determined at the time of the decision. It must have gone through the quality assurance systems that are otherwise in place when the State decides to make large investments. Here the Ministry of Finance was disconnected because the Storting has the special arrangement that they only demand money, and then you think the Storting is doing the best of it. This – to say – the shift of responsibility between the different presidencies is totally uninteresting. What's interesting is to ask: why wasn't this project – from a to – investigated and presented to the granting authority, which is the Stortinget? So you could say that this became complex gradually. Yes, but it was because you started out with something that was supposed to be window replacements and fireproof decks, and then you end up with a new input and a tunnel that no one has been able to convince anyone that has safety significance. It was never a priority in a list of measures that had at some point been taken into account, with about a quarter of the total. 80 measures. It was just a reason because, when you put it, you got more appetite for expensive solutions. I would also like to say that the weak — or missing — references to the national audit report show that the ability to learn remains a major and unresolved question for this room. How can we be sure that the presidency believes that it was just the management and reporting of a project that was the problem, and not that you didn't respect the eligibility rules here in the house, or lived by the investigation instructions in the state? It was not quality proof, you did not know where to go, you expanded the project along the way, and then it had to go as it did. You didn't have a total enterprise. One also suffered damage to break the procurement regulations, i.e. Norwegian law. It's pretty embarrassing. So if learning is really going to be deep, you have to follow more of the instructions that came from my honourable colleague from the Control Committee, who was, of course, the Budget Committee, and was completely confused about what happened, my good colleague Gruvan, who was also involved in this in his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e188	This is a big deal. It has been a long time. There is no doubt that there has been too bad basic work here when this was started. But I think what might be positive learning about this, and I'm glad, is that the KPMG and the National Audit Office seem to look quite similar to the challenges that have been. It shows that they've actually gone into and looked at this, and they think we're forced to find a lot of learning points. So we can discuss who has done what, but if this is going to help us in the future, we're at least forced to believe that they are making decisions afterwards, actually really go into the matter. The bad groundwork in the first round cannot exempt those who made decisions in both 2013, 2014 and 2015 to go into it and assess what happened in the course of the process. We know that July 22 led to changes regarding the requirement of security. It was almost impossible to ask questions about security costs. I think it is also in this case, but one should remember that it was not a country until 2018 and was able to get a budget that could be followed up. So here's a lot of people who've done something. The most important thing in the future now I think is how we're going to avoid this happening multiple times. There's no doubt that one had great challenges with the designers, which is also shown to be like an intruder. Then I think that one has to work for one to get a completely different device in such cases. So it's important for me to say that I think there's a lot of good people in Stortingen's administration who really have been on and working and doing a great job here. And then there's a bunch of frames around what's done that we haven't landed it, we haven't had the structures that have made us get to a good enough project, at the top, which has made there are a lot of things here that absolutely shouldn't have been done. But it's important for me to say that one has had a lot of people who have actually been trying to land this, so that one doesn't give the impression that there hasn't been a job from there. So I hope that we can take along and go with us how complex such things become, and that one of them is actually required to have a device that can catch it up. But we also have to be willing to ask questions along the way, all the way, and not say: No, but this is determined. If there's something here that's not good enough, we have to actually dare to get hold of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e201	I wanted to take the floor for what Michael Tetzschner was about, because I think it's important and right. But I'm also glad that the Storting has changed the practice on a lot of this. With the adoption of new rental and building regulations, there will be a completely different handling of these types of cases for the future. As the representative Schou had in mind: we get deep hope that makes the Storting much more fit to handle this type of project in the future. I presented instead of this change on the early involvement of state buildings, but it is also that we will follow up on others of those recommendations, and we have already followed up several of the recommendations in the evaluation report. For early stage maturity, contracting and implementation model, the powers, roles and responsibilities of major projects, the kind of capacity and competence to enter into this, project management, ownership management, culture, and not least the involvement of the Storting in decision-making phases: I believe this is important learning points The size has shown that they take. We have also changed much of the handling of information to Stortinget; it is that the Stortinget should be informed of major projects carried out here, and the Presidency will continue to provide good and sufficiently detailed information to the Stortinget on major maintenance projects and construction projects. This also applies to other major projects carried out in the United Kingdom, whether in the ordinary budgetary procedure or in the case of own matters presented in the United Kingdom. In addition to the information provided in the Stortinget on major maintenance and construction projects and other projects, the second paragraph of Section 9a of the Stortinget Rules of Procedure also states that the Presidency can discuss it with the party groups on the basis of the importance of a case. So I believe that significant changes have been made to ensure that in the future we implement these projects in a significantly safer and better way, in Rules of Procedure, with certainty that the Storting is involved, and that the necessary decisions are taken at the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e212	I want to start by thanking the President-in-Office for an appropriate position, but I still want to say that what she suggests as the solution is not the solution. First of all, there was nothing to prevent you from acting wisely in the previous presidency, and that you had respected the allocation rules here in the house. Because it is clear that if the Stortinget had received a completed project from a to, and knew that it cost NOK 2 billion, some of us might have had a notion of how that money could have been used. That's the one. In addition, we also had the law on public acquisitions, which were broken along the way, precisely because they were shot at as you got new ideas, and at every junction where you were faced with choosing a cheap solution or maybe three back and dampening the level of ambition, you chose the expensive solution. It's in the national audit report. Then they say that everything is going to be all right, because now we have the rules in place. Yes, if you're always going to have a regulation to act sensibly – and ask yourself why all these cabs are over here. Why have you dug out the input in a quarter of the quarter of the gross domestic product when the Stortinget actually only granted $30 million? kr the first year of window replacement, and for new decks and some fire protection – and also built a traffic barrier that caused the traders in the area of bankruptcy and customer failure of nearly corona dimensions, long before we knew it? After it has now been written in the regulations that you are going to discuss with the party groups, I will finally say, yes, that is exactly what you tried to do. When you saw that there were newspaper headlines, the previous administration tried to inform you about things that had already happened, like the facts, and then maybe the group leaders felt that they were informed, and they calmed down. But the sum of the group leaders here in the house is no admissive body. In this case, the information was deliberately directed outside the control and constitution committee, which was responsible for the budget, and later it seemed better to submit it to the Financial Committee. I think it's going back to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, because they have a fairly transparent budget portfolio, and they're at least able to ask questions about why they were raising large cranes, and why they run bulldozers over Wessel's place for a couple of years, precisely because you can't find the basis for it, for the violent expenditures in the budget paper. So I ask that, for the future, too, when you now ensure that everything is all right, that you stick to the rules of the Storting, this house, and that you go through the committee and that the Stortinge gets presented with billions of projects before you start them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e228	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice. 2 and 3 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e259	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e266	Thank you to the Committee for a good cooperation on these two issues. One is about improving boat and ferry policy, and it's about the costs of ferries, and the increases there. This is because the offer has been improved in several places, and also, of course, it has been decided to switch to new technologies, which also have costs, but where there are some possibilities for grants. Last revised, it was 200 million. kr more for the ferries. I expect that the other parties will explain well their views, and therefore I intend to say a little on behalf of the Advancement Party. The party initially wants – and has proposed in its alternative state budget – to reduce ferry prices by 200 million. kr, just because we have a lot of understanding that this is a challenge for people who live so that they depend on using the ferries often. It costs a lot, a lot of money. For the Progress Party, we believe that ferries are the same as the road, and that there is something you should be allowed to use without having to pay tolls or ferry tickets, but we are a bit away from getting to it. We suggested it, but when we didn't get a pass on it, we couldn't now find money and space to reduce AutoPASS, because it would cost some money to do it. However, I am very pleased that we have agreed with the government parties that we want to see how we can reduce the advance payment in AutoPASS, but not as the minority, who just want to do it for the passenger car. We know that this is also important to many in the business world, many who run transport companies, who may pay quite a hundred thousand kroner – and in fact over a million kroner – in advance of their fleet or their car combinations. There's a huge cost, and there's a lot about the liquidity of a lot of transport companies. That's why we want to find out, and there's a note here where the government is asked to look at this and come back to the Stortinget, precisely because we share the concern that's there. When you actually have to have money to implement, and when we didn't get a majority with the government parties in the negotiations with them, we don't have that money to reduce this right now. But that's a little special, because there's none of the other parties in the opposition either that have set off a single penny to reduce the cost of advances on AutoPass. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e275	I still believe that I have to take this in two articles. Our counties are leading the development of climate-friendly technology on ferry and fast boat. Norway is a maritime nation. We can sea, and we can build boats, and we have many world-leading technological development arenas, so it's not just to meet the need to build own boats this is important – climate-friendly technology at sea is also a major export industry. This cost cannot be taken by the counties alone. Here, the state must contribute to the green shift and the requirements set by the Storting itself. Several counties, after the regional reform and aggregation, have had to reduce their operations by several hundred million kroner. At the same time, the cost of new offers for speedboats and ferries has led to an increase in ferry prices. The counties then have the choice of reducing the number of flights or increasing the prices, and often they have to do both parts or take down other operations for which the county is responsible. There are significant export industries on our coast. That's why it's a big advantage if people want to and can afford to live there, and not least that there's good communication. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we give the counties a much larger and better space for action, as well as investment in new technology. There are two suggestions. I would like to raise a number of proposals from the minority in relation to document 8:27 S, which is proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Then I'll bring up proposal No. 1 in relation to document 8:17 S, which is from the minority of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. It is a proposal to reduce the advance payment for the payment to AutoPASS for the ferry to NOK 1000. Then I'll come back to this with the fare level.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e288	Then the representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e293	We have always been concerned about – and I think that concerns most people here – strengthening ferry operations. Both capacity and frequency have been improved through the tenders for national roads and up to 20-minute take-offs on the national road network. In addition, there are clear requirements in the tender procedures for low and zero emission technologies, which contribute to the electrification of the ferries. A large part of the ferry link is the responsibility of county councils and is managed within the financial framework available to the county. There are criteria in the income system to contribute to the objective distribution of funds between the counties. An increase in the cost of ferry operations will mean that ferries receive a greater share of the framework grant. In addition, we see that there are some extra costs in the transition to zero emission ferries. That's why it's worth 150 million. kr extra in the revised 2020 budget for the current year and an additional 100 million. kr in the budget for 2021, in addition to that received by the counties over the framework grant. At the same time, a grant of 896 million is granted. kr for the period 2015-2019 from Enova for that purpose. Substantial extra funds have therefore been provided to facilitate the conversion to zero emissions in the ferry sector, including for county municipalities. The fact that nearly one third of the country's ferries will have a battery installed during 2022 shows that most states are following this in a good way. Some county municipalities have chosen to significantly increase ferry tariffs. It is, in my view, a bad strategy, and I am uncertain whether it will generate increased income for the county. Higher prices increase the cost of commuters and businesses and are likely to result in fewer travel. Thus, there is a question of whether total income can go down rather than increase. The centre batch wishes to introduce a maximum rate. It is tempting to take the Central Party on the floor and contribute to the fact that the People's Party in the county municipalities do not increase prices further. However, we have chosen to maintain the principle approach to this, namely that politicians in the county should have the freedom of action within the financial framework allocated to them and that it is important for local self-government. The AutoPASS system for ferries is based on the payment of significant advance amounts. For a passenger car, this amount is NOK 3 600. It may be demanding liquidity for a commuter, in particular for those with the lowest income, and may contribute to some falling outside the discount schemes. At the same time, there are also significant advances for business and the other tariff groups. The Government Parties and the Advance Party therefore promote a proposal to review the advance amounts for all tariff groups, not only for passenger cars. We will therefore not vote in favour of the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party, but we expect that this is a work that the government can do quickly and get back to the Stortinget, so that we can get an overall assessment of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e310	A full introduction to the Central Party's proposal for a better boat and ferry policy that is now being discussed would give lower ticket prices for both boats and ferries. I'd like to take up the proposals of the Center Party. All four proposals on which the Central Party is involved would contribute to cheaper tickets, but they are defeated by the government parties. With this proposal for a representative, we want to set up the criteria for financing boat and ferry operations, so that coastal states can develop good offers based on reasonable prices, find a financing mechanism that allows the state to take the additional costs of the boats and the green shifts of the ferries in order to implement both that and future measures, to pay a national maximum price for boat and ferry tickets, and that the cost of getting full discounts on ferries should be equal to the cost of the deposit for the AutoPASS bomb. The coastal people need good deals. That is why we have to facilitate the everyday life of all those who depend on the boat and the ferry. The Central Party wants it to live in people throughout the country. We want to reverse centralization, but the government parties are voting us down. An information for the Progress Party and others who believe that the Center Party has not given more money to the states than the government parties want to do: we have. For example, Nordland, as I know best, will get about. 365 million. kr more with the Central Party's alternative draft budget. I can tell you about an island community called Traina. There are 33 nautical miles out in the sea. That's the same thing as 61 kilometers. When a coaching by car is to travel from Traina to Stokkwagen, i.e. to the mainland which is approx. 7 miles from Mo in Rana, the ferry ticket costs NOK 582 one way if you cannot afford to pay the AutoPASS deposit of NOK 3 600. If the auction had been able to afford AutoPASS and got a discount, the ferry trip costs NOK 291. Sometimes the ferry tickets are called the eternal tolls of the coastal people. I made a little comparison last night – 61 kilometers from Stortinget. Where are we? Well, then we're in Hokksund, and the toll cost there was 25 kroner, 20 kroner with the AutoPASS agreement, according to the mountain line's toll calculator. To get this discount, it is enough to order an AutoPASS contract and pay a deposit of NOK 200. You get a discount from the first bombing, the AutoPASS agreement is valid throughout Scandinavia, and all the bombings come from a single invoice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e325	The representative, Siv Mossleth, has taken up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e330	The county councils have major challenges with the boat and ferry offer in the future. Part of the picture, but not all, is that new tenders and the introduction of zero- and low-emission solutions increase expenditure – we know – at least in the first stage. I have said that before, and I would like to repeat it now: it is at the limit of the unreasonable when the Storting here decides to ask the county councils to phase in zero-emission solutions for ferries, and after each speedboat, without enough money. SV has called for increased appropriations to be made available to county councils to cover the increased costs of making tenders important but costly. The worst thing is that government parties now cultivate this dishonesty in the settings, and it was also mentioned by the local representative. Thus, it is referred to that this can be determined by county authorities, i.e. ferry prices, frequency, etc. - Ma'am! If the county councils don't get more money, it has to go down on something. It's obvious. In the first instance, the economy of the county councils, then there will necessarily be a lower ferry frequency or an increase in prices — or both. The county councils have no choice. What else would they take the money from? Is it from high school, or is it from the county roads, which already has 50 billion. kr – 60 br. kr in the aftermath of the maintenance? Is it maybe racial protection they're going to take it from, or from the walking and cycling path? SV has spent 300 million for several years. kr in addition to the government's proposal to cover additional costs relating to zero emissions in ferries and buses tenders. We've taken this through the municipal council. It comes in addition to all the increased appropriations we want the municipalities to have in our frame. The government's sub-financing of boat and ferry services has coincided with other major investments made in connection with the green shift. Then we can, for example, think of zero emissions on buses. As a result of all of this, people in the districts have noticed worse offers and partly increased prices, not least in the advance payment, which we have talked about here today, of more than NOK 3000 for the AutoPASS solution. This is a lot for people who are struggling with the economy. Therefore, SV is behind the proposal to lower it to NOK 1000. Remember, too, that this really has to do with district policy. There is hardly any place where transport services have a greater impact on housing and industrial development than in ferries. People go to work, they go to school, to hospitals and other things, and the ferries bind the island communities – our arms – together with the rest of the body, that is, the mainland. Keep in mind, too, that reduced ferry services are added to a weakened aviation and coastal route offer. Then maybe we can blame the Korona for a while on the way, but with Norway's economic muscles, the excuse doesn't hold completely. It goes on political will.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e347	First of all, I have to speak to the county councils for their commitment to the green shift. They have done a fantastic job and have been leading to transfer the ferries to zero emission solutions. Now we are so sure that this solution is good that we know that, in the context of the climate plan, which is coming quite soon, it will be proposed that all ferry sections to be tendered after 2023 should have a zero-emission solution. The county councils have been the forerunner. I think that should be included in this discussion. We don't know exactly what the extra cost is. There's been a lot of discussion about it. At least we don't know which increase or decrease in operating costs it will be. There are many who believe that there can be strong reductions in operating costs when we have got this electrical solution, instead of oil and possibly gas as fuel. I'm optimistic about the new ferry solutions. This is exactly what we are reporting on the speedboats now. Now we know it's a huge development. It is being researched, built and tested, and you are quite sure that you will get it there too. Then the 2025th anniversary of zero-emission speedboats, and it's the county municipalities, along with the state and Enova, that have got these solutions. I look forward very much to the green shift being carried out on the coast at a great pace. Not everyone can afford to make use of discounts. It's a problem that there are so expensive entrance tickets to get a discount. There's a little bit of discussion here. For tolls, there is now a late payment and not much discount. There were very large discounts when this started. I remember there was NOK 7 000 in payment in Trondheim. Now it's a post-payment -- a completely different system. Yeah, maybe you have to go to it. But then we have to be aware that it has some dark sides for those who use these often. They're gonna have a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e360	I notice that there are many who feel at home in the debate on ferries. The vacationers have been paying tolls for decades after decades, and they have not actually complained. That's why I'm really happy with this debate, because I think it's very important that we make sure that the ferry prices are at a level where we have legitimacy and don't get resistance. It's important. It is also said in the debate, and it is true that it is because of the climate challenge we have, that we need zero and low emissions on both ferries and speedboats, but also that the ferry supply has been improved by the county, and I am pleased about that. I also think it's strange here that even though we're some people who want electric cars to have discounts, it's also one of the explanations. Because it's clear that if you have an electric car in District Norway also has an advance payment, you get a 50 pst. Discount of 50 pst. and then comes out relatively well. But let me start with the advance, which is included in both proposals. I think there's a reason to remember the big bet that's on the ferry in the budget. The budget proposal for national ferry services for 2021 is 1573 million. kr. The advance payment system is for travellers to provide something to obtain a discount, but I see that there may be challenges associated with too high advances, especially for families and businesses that have accumulated a lot of liquidity in this particular case. I therefore believe that there might be reason to consider a more holistic review of the price and discount structure in the light of this, and would ask the State Road Administration to look at this and start doing it. And as the committee leader also said, this is a work that should be done relatively quickly. And then I'll also point out that there are several areas that are also being done on. In 2018, there was a holistic review, and I'm not going to teach the Stortinget, because it knows the Storting very well that the states that had ferry operations received an increase in the amount that time. It was revised to add 150 million. Extra kroner. That's about 100 million. kr extra in the budget now. So Enova, Innovation Norway and Norway's Research Council have got 1.6 billion. kr to the ferry section, and I think we need the same thinking even when it comes to the speedboats. Then we get zero emission technology both on ferries and fast boats, and we get Norwegian industry out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e372	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e377	The climate rate has given 89 million. kr for the development of emission-free speedboats. This is very good. It is the Stortinget that has demanded zero emissions. It costs a lot to develop new technology, but it also costs an incredible amount to set up berths for all calls for speedboats, and this has not been followed up well enough against the counties in the case of ferries. Our ferry crews have a lot of problems, and it's a ferry uprising. Sees the Council of State that this is affecting both our business and, for example, our business. School offers in our coastal communities that have these challenges, and will the government follow up, so that we can solve this with housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e382	I want to start by saying that I think it is important that the county councils give priority to the county holidays, and I feel that they do. They've done that so far, and we're happy to get a lot of zero-emission ferries. We have a good drive on it, and it works well. It also provides Norwegian jobs, because, as I said, Enova, Innovation Norway and the Research Council have used 1.6 billion. kr on it. I think that some of the same thing should also be done on the speedboats. What the representative, Leirtrø, mentioned is a very good example of cooperation between the state and the state on the speedboats. There is also an enormous potential, because when we talk about exports, we can talk about exporting zero-emission ferries, but zero-emission speedboats will have completely different export possibilities because there are so many speedboats. So I mean we follow this up, but there's also a lot of possibilities in this. We've shown what we've got on ferries, and we have to do the same when it comes to speedboats.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e389	John Erik Johansen lives in Dønna. He's a farmer and he has a passenger car and family. First he had to establish AutoPASS for the car, NOK 3 600. It happened that the tractor had to go from Dønna to Lake Sandness to pick up litter, deliver waste or service, and he was told that each of his two tractors had to have a separate AutoPASS agreement. The bill he finally received from AutoPASS for the ferry was NOK 32 200. You can ask yourself if there's anyone who's got a higher bill than the farmer on Dønna. Will the Council of State take this opportunity to look at the operation of AutoPASS on ferries for both business and private life, to try to correct the somewhat absurd situation that the farmer at Dønna has come into?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e396	The representative Lyngedal mentioned is one of the things I tried to say in my post that we wanted to look at, also because I see clearly what the Storting says about this. We have added this advance payment, also because it should be a real obstacle. The question is: is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is What I'm busy about is that not least those who use the ferry very much need to be able to benefit from the discount. I am concerned that it is mainly the coastal population, which has its daily function there, as a family or as a business, that this should benefit. Then I think it's a good idea to have a certain amount of advance payment, also because the discount is so big. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is I don't think any of us want that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e401	I agree with the Council of State's assessment that there may be a need for an entrance ticket to get the 50 pst discount for private. The level that was set in the Corona era, from April to July 1, was NOK 1200 for private cars. Have you considered the economic impact during those months of reducing the advance amount from NOK 3 600 to NOK 1200?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e406	We've got a number, but it's hard to conclude because there was a very special travel pattern in those days. Traffic was quite different in the first coronatide than in the normal time. Therefore, it is difficult to draw very clear conclusions. It was also the most necessary traffic that went then. But this is something we're going to look at right now. We have said that we want to look at the health and exactly the discount structure, but I want to give a signal that I think it should be an entrance ticket, if not really the whole discount will be gone. That's what I think I'll be negative for just the coastal people, the family and the business there. That's what I want to do. But we want to look at this and come back, and I hope, as I said, that it will not take too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e411	It is often claimed by the government that one has a desire to strengthen the business community in the districts. What they say, and what they do, isn't always related. For example, an EEA worker can no longer register at the local Länsmannskontoret in Værøy. First, there must be an appointment with the police in Bodø, and it may take weeks to get that hour. Then they have to take the ferry from Værøy to Bodø, it takes almost 24 hours if they're lucky. If they're unhappy with the hour, it'll take two days. The near-police reform means that what they could have done in 5-10 minutes on Værøy, they have to spend one or two days, with ferries to Bodø. But does the minister really know how much it costs for a normal family in Værøy to take the car out of the municipality and over to Bodø – Mom, Dad, the kids and the car? They're highwaymen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e416	I shall be careful to say something about the length of each route. I myself have experience selling speedboat tickets, but then I have to go back to the late 1980s and the early 1990s, and it was the section Bømlo–Bergen, and from Bømlo and south. What I know was important then was the discount schemes, which we still have. But what I feel the coastal people have done is that they have paid both ferry and speedboat tickets for decades after decades. Long before we had debates on tolls in this country, the coastal population paid without complaining. But now we're listening to a sum and a sound, and I'm actually feeling that there's a bunch of stuff that expresses concern about it. I think we should have both speedboat and ferry tickets at a certain level, but not at such a level that we lose the legitimacy of it, and that's what I want to do in the assignment that I've pointed out here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e421	I can tell you that it costs almost 1000 kroner one way, and it's expensive. For our proposal: the same price for advance payments for AutoPASS for ferries and deposit for bombs. How should I explain this in the best possible way – the advance payment of 200 kroner is completely possible to get invoiced afterwards, as it is completely possible with regard to the car. But how can it be that it is possible to manage this, the toll chips and the toll discounts with a deposit of DKK 200, but it is absolutely impossible to achieve the same in terms of ferry prices, i.e. the seemingly eternal tolls of the coastal people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e428	The representative Mossleth here is taking up, will be quite possible, but I just think we should think through it. For example, if we: goes down to NOK 200, in fact the discount will be gone. It will then say that travelers and vacationing foreigners who visit the coast in the summer will receive exactly the same discount. Then it's going to be more expensive for the people in Northern Norway or along the west coast, so I think it's a good idea to have an advance. Then we have a discount of 20 pst. toll money, there's a lower discount there. The representative Gunnes told us what this was like in the initial phase when it was about tolls. So now we have 50 pst. Discount, and then I think it's natural to have an advance. But what the size of that amount should be, I think is the core of the debate the Stortinget has here today, and I'll ask the State Road Service to look at that. But they will certainly also consider what Mr Mossleth is referring to here with the proposals of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e436	I am registering a very good attendance from the Council of State at what the Stortinget expresses here. I also record that there has been a change in the attitude of the Council of State, from the two previous Councils of State in the Ministry of Transport; it is much easier to communicate. Governments are taking signals from the Storting, I'm very pleased. And I'm waiting for the investigation that's coming, and the assessments he's making. The representative of Gunnes addressed this with uncertainty about the costs of phase-in of zero-emission ferries and zero-emission solutions. I've seen a lot of numbers on how much this costs, how much it means to the county councils, and I'm not sure how much it costs – just from the West I've heard several hundred million dollars in extra costs. Can the Council say anything about the figures available — can we call the official figure on the costs of the county — for phase-in of zero-emission technology on ferries, boats?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e443	We've got a number from the state. We had dialogue with them in ours, they've submitted their input to it. And it varies from state to state when it applies to the extent to which they have managed to phase in zero emission ferries, among other things. I believe, without feeling that I am a home patriot, that Western states have our very good, and it has had a significant cost for them. But then it's paradoxical that this is a hunching cost, because we see that on the operating side there will be much lower costs on the ferries. The longer we manage to keep these ferries in operation, the lower the cost. The operating costs of the ferry over the Sognefjord, which is a national ferry, are equivalent to a savoury and a coffee cup. But it's the state that's looking at it today. It shows that we have to help the county with the puck cost, and then we have to get to the same development on speedboats, because there is a great export potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e448	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e455	When I visit my parents, I drive E6 south from Narvik. I can also drive via Kjöpsvik, then you are not on E6, but in any case I have to take ferries, because Norway is divided into two ferries. I have been driving that way since I moved to Narvik in 1996, and before we bought ferry tickets to get a discount on the trip. Welding a little to lock on 1500 kroner for a trip that cost 100 kroner, especially when the kids were small. Because even though I was happy to visit Mom and Dad, I wasn't there more often than it could take a few years to spend the money that was then paid to the ferry company. When AutoPASS for ferries was introduced, we had to pay a minimum of NOK 3 600 to get a discount. Dad, who lives at Fauske, is an economic man, and he also wants 50 pst. discount when he is going to take the trip to Narvik. But he was in doubt in the fall when his balance came down to 800 kroner, and he was sent a new invoice of 3,600 kroner. Because he's 79 years old, so how many trips did he go to Narvik in the next few years? He chose to pay AutoPASS, so now they have 4 400 kroner they keep on behalf of Dad, and it is nice that he wants to see the possibility to continue driving on a visit. Now I personally have a better economy than I had when the kids were young. I can easily lock 3,600 kroner for AutoPASS. But in January I was contacted by the rapporteur at Herøy, who asked: must the minimum amount be so high? Because it was a very bad move when we started using AutoPASS for ferries also in Northern Ireland. When you are rapporteur on an island where ferries are the only way out, you can see that the price is low for some of the inhabitants. Then the government put the advance amount down to NOK 1200, and it was great joy along the coast – until they set it up again on 1 July. It was just in the coronary apandemia it was important to put it down. Maybe I've misunderstood, but the pandemic isn't really over? But anyway – for the rapporteur on Herey, the point was not Korona. It was that the amount is too high for someone: those who have the least money. I am very pleased that the Storting today seems to be assembled that the one-off payment of NOK 3 600 is non-social for those who have the least. I think $1,200 is going to be right. Not all states have so many ferries and speedboats. The conversion of the county economy that came in 2015 made it worse for coastal regions with many connections – unfortunately. I'm glad we're also going to look at the advance payments for business, because there's a lot of islands in Northern Ireland where there's a lot of fish produced and the advances can be high.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e470	We who live along the coast are aware that our communication with others is not just via road. The maritime route is equally important, and for many, the only way to get there. This is the situation for many, and it's going to be like this in the future, fortunately. We have to provide a better offer by sea. Most ferries and speedboats are under the responsibility of the county. They have been forward-looking and bet on zero-emission ferries and boats. The developments we have seen in recent years are fantastic and show how well county municipalities take their responsibilities and how innovative they are. The county councils get their funding from the state, and this is not always the case with the state. The size would like to build up under environmental promotion and regulation, but may not always be as good as providing funding for all good measures. The county councils are a driving force and an important player in order to implement the green shift. The income system shall ensure that public funds are distributed fairly equally across all municipalities and counties. The cost keys for boat and ferry traffic are difficult to get completely accurate. The expenditure is related to whether there are many islands and roadless settlements, and whether there is a ferry section that binds two roads together. What is certain is that there is no boat or ferry where there is no need for it! The framework for the shipbuilding and ferry sector needs to be increased to take account of increased costs for ships with zero and low emission solutions and not least for new tenders. Furthermore, it is very important that the income system works as it should: ensuring equivalent offers across the country. The coast is our most productive region, with fish and seafood, with oil and gas, with increasing use of wind resources and not least as an attractive tourist magnet. The price level of ferries and boats also helps to define their use. It is important to keep prices at an acceptable level both for those who commute by ferry or speedboat, and for those who travel at a slightly lower frequency. I record that the government parties in their comments seem very pleased with the state of things. They should take a never-small round of ferries and speedboats in our long-range country and be realistic. Furthermore, the Government Parties and the Advance Party are driving and placing the increase in costs and responsibility for it on state policies. It's shooting at the pianist. It is the State that grants money to the county councils, and it is the Stortinge that adopts the law that regulates this activity. The majority who have ruled this area for seven years are the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. It is the responsibility of these parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e489	It is expensive to have bad advice, and that is what we want to do with this proposal for a representative. When the corona outbreak came, a scheme was put in place from April to June where the advance amount was reduced from 3,660 to 1,200 kroner for passenger cars. The argument then was the economy of individuals. It's still the way that we have a pandemic. I live in a peninsula. Our local hospital is located on the other side of Trondheimsfjorden. To get 50 pst. So the discount on the ferry trip is going to be $3,600 in advance. This is a lot of money for students, lonely, disabled, unemployed and minimum pensioners, or simply people who have poor finances. I know a lot of people who can't afford to deposit that much money. So they travel much less, but pay twice for each trip. One who can't afford NOK 3 600 has to pay NOK 600 for a trip to Trondheim, while we who have better advice and can deposit the advance amount will drop by NOK 300. Now the documents in the case – the Progress Party was also involved – say that it costs money to cancel the deposit claim. I think this is going to be wrong. It only allows far more people to take the tours they would like to take, or which they simply can't afford anymore. Traffic will increase. The majority of the committee has now put forward a proposal on this matter which we in the Labour Party also support. We're glad it's coming, and you're looking at the entire advance system. As the representative Lyngedal says, there have also been changes in the ticket price. When the counties and the state went over to AutoPASS and you do not have to pay for people, but for the whole car, the total went up and made it even more expensive. So we want to vote with the majority in the Committee on the proposal for a review of the whole system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e506	The AutoPASS agreement for tolls and tolls is valid throughout Scandinavia, and all the tolls are invoiced together. You pay afterwards, not in advance. You even get back the deposit of NOK 200 if you want to close the deal and throw the toll piece into the electronic waste. It's okay. With regard to the ferry tickets, it is problematic that discounts are easier to get, according to the government parties and the minister. At least we in the Center Party think it's good if more people get cheaper ferry tickets and can afford a ferry trip. I've actually heard of families and people who fear it will be their turn to drive the kids off the road: can they afford to ferry the day it's their turn to drive? And there are people who pay $50,000–60,000 a year on holiday tickets to get to work. Actually, there are people who end up at work because of vacation prices. If we look at what that is, for example. costs to take public transport in Oslo, where you can drive within Ring 3 to and from work every single day and to and from cultural events, trainings, pub evenings and whatever you wish, for 770 kroner a month, or 7,700 kroner a year, in perspective and compared to the expenses of the coastal and island peoples, it is unfair, and it is unfair. Of course, it's not that the ferries like to plague their inhabitants at high ferry prices. Holiday prices are subsidized and the costs of county councils are large. Many coastal areas are underfunded. For example, the three largest ferries, Nordland, Møre and Romsdal and Westland, are underfunded by the state with at least 700 million. kr. Nevertheless, for example, Møre and Romsdal have lower prices for county holidays than for national roads. They still have 20 pst. Coroner abt. More and Romsdal spend 200 million. kr more on ferries than the financing keys should provide. The county councils are trying to do the best for people and have good services close to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e517	What matters here is very well presented by a lot of people. If you listen well to the posts, there's no doubt that it's getting closer to some kind of consensus about how you want this to look in the future. It's about the price for the user, it's about the reimbursement from the public, here the states, and it's about the shooting. It's really also about climate and industrial development, so it's really a big deal. There's one thing that means a lot too many. It means a lot to the individual user, who may not be able to afford to do what he wants or what he needs to be able to live. At the same time, it's about a green shift. It's about states that feel like they're part of a green shift, they're showing the will for a green shift, but they don't get the back-up they need. It will always be in a debate like this, of course, a slightly different view of how this is solved, by referring to what has been put into the state budget, and what is left of Enova and its like. But I think maybe this case is about there are some limits that have been reached, because there has been a pretty big development in recent years. When the states go in with life and desire to get environmentally friendly ferries, but at the same time feel that they don't get enough for the job they do every day, and when people start saying that the shooting is so high that they actually sit and judge whether or not to pay, then there's politics. Then I think you should try to listen to those who have the shoes on, really. Perhaps the most important thing, and what matters most, is that people out on the coast are dying depending on the ferry's going, and you're totally dependent on the fact that there's a price you can pay with the pay you have. When we see that a lot of money is spent in the big cities to stimulate people to go and ride bicycles and use them collectively – I refer to the prices that the representative Mossleth talked about – it stands in stark contrast to some of the things that happen out in the districts. I think the Storting might have to take over and do something about it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e528	I think it might be a good idea to take this debate down a little bit, because it seems that we are largely in agreement here that there is a need to do something about the advance payments on the ferries. I have listened to all the comments, and I think that when you look at the proposals that have come here, in the representative proposals from both the Workers' Party and the Centre, they have mainly concentrated on the passenger car and the advance rate associated with those who commute by passenger car. I believe that there will be a too narrow approach to this discussion, simply because we are getting feedback that there are other groups who are experiencing these advances as demanding. I think I'll just make it clear right away that we're completely in agreement. I think it's time for a proper and comprehensive review of these advances, to reduce them somewhat in relation to today's level. So there's just questions about what's the right level. I do not think it makes sense to see it independently of the other pricing and discount structures. When the Central Party proposes to go all the way down to NOK 200, which is the same as in the bombing system, one has to consider that for a bomb on the road, there is a different discount system than it is on ferries. Some of the advantage of the discount system on ferries is that it is made in such a way that it "premises" those who use ferries very much, because there are discounts of 40 and 50 pst., not 20 pst., that you have in the toll stations. I think it's hard to take this discussion and just suggest that we put down the advance amount, and then we're very satisfied. We need to take a comprehensive look at this, and that is why, together with the Progress Party, we have proposed what we have done, get a comprehensive review, make sure that we look at all the tariff groups, and that we also see this in the context of the price and discount structure for ferries. I think we all have a common intention: to get the best possible offer for the users. I'm not worried that this could cost a few dollars, because I think we have to assume that it has a budgetary impact. That job we get when that time comes – I almost said, when we see what this is in dollars and ears. But I think here we have to arrange for users to have a good order that serves the districts and the coast in a proper way. Just a small trace also of the more principleal link to funding: as I was in place, a good deal of funding has also been allocated to shifting to zero emissions, but the administrative reform in 2010 meant that very many of the links that were then national road links, are now county road links and are the county municipality's responsibility. It was built up into a system where this was to be resolved within the framework grant. It's followed up. The framework grant is structured in such a way that when costs related to ferry operations increase, the share of ferries in the framework grant will also increase. So there's a mechanism here that captures this, to some extent at least, in the system that's there today, and I think we should also take that further into the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e543	It was actually the representative Hoksrud who made me speak now. Why in the world could not the Progress Party give priority to its views on lower ferry tariffs in the negotiations? I'd like to ask the representative of Hoksrud about that. Priority was given to snuggling and showering, at least not the level of ferries. This means that when he refers to the alternative budget – it was 200 million. Do you really want to delete this item? – it was not put on the table in the negotiations. That must mean one thing: that it was not important enough for the representative Hoksrud and for the Progress Party to drive this forward. We must be able to agree on that. The representative of Hoksrud said this should be considered. Yes, that is quite right, it would have been an effective attitude of the Progress Party, that things should be assessed first. But I have the impression that in the case of other toll systems etc., there are no special assessments. They can suddenly be put down, both here and there, hist and piste. It shall not be assessed. It is simply an attitude that I see, which is not prioritised by the representative of Hoksrud, that we must have lower ferry prices. I think Hoksrud could very well admit when he does not want to support a proposal, for example. 1 000 kroner in advance payment, that's because he doesn't give it high enough priority. It's okay to cover up for such an investigation proposal. But I would say that SV will also support the proposal for an investigation, the vote that comes, from the majority. Of course we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e552	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e558	First of all to the representative Location: If AutoPASS for ferries is equal to AutoPASS for cars, it does not have to apply only to passenger cars. This may also apply to other vehicles. I want to give a little explanation of vote. Of course, the centre party will vote in favour of all the proposals we are included in or on our own. The centre party has not joined the Workers' Party and SV's proposal in the Workers' Party's proposal to set AutoPASS for ferries at NOK 1000, because we have a separate proposal that we believe is better, i.e. that the cost of getting full discounts on ferries should be equal to the cost of depositing AutoPASS bombs. But we will vote in favour of the Workers' Party and the SV's proposals when there is no majority in favour of our proposals, we fully agree that the advance amount must be reduced. We will vote in favour of the proposals of the government parties as a small step on the way, and I might encourage the government parties to vote in favour of some of the other proposals, while waiting for the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e565	It's always nice to listen to the representative Nävra. First, he thinks that if only everything had been public again, it would be very good. He is very happy to spend money on everything we have put at a competitive disadvantage, for example. Railway – he is very happy to spend the money that makes things cheaper, but he talks against it, always. So that's the way it has been. In fact, competition for ferry services has brought prices down and not up – a better offer has been made. But it is clear that after a few years it will also be more expensive, also because you have chosen a technology that the representative of Nävra seems to be amazingly good and would like to spend more money on. The progressing party is not as concerned that we're necessarily going to do it. Then it's funny that he thinks the Progress Party is getting through all the things we've been involved in the negotiations with the government. I think he has registered that we have not received it. Among other things, we have recorded that we want to reduce ferry prices, so we have also suggested in our alternative state budget, which is our primary policy, that we cut by 200 million. kr. It would have meant something to people living along the coast. It's also fun when the red-greens stand here and are very busy with the county municipalities and the ferries. So these are the same parties that transferred a ticket with ferries and road sections from the state and to the county councils in the regional reform – in 2010, it was well – where you just sent over a lot without making sure that there was any money. But that's the way it is: the Progress Party is committed to finding solutions. We're concerned about finding solutions for the private car drivers, but we're also very concerned about finding solutions for the business community, which are also very concerned about the advance payment. That's why we're working on it, and that's why I'm very happy that we've now also got the government parties to agree that we should look at this together. As the Council of State said, these are opportunities to do pretty quickly, and we're looking forward to that. So this is also a little about what the county councils spend money on, and I see that the central party and some other people would like to give the county politicians carte blanche to spend money on everything they want – I can remember about both opera construction and county municipal employees that you don't really know what's going on, etc. We would like to have a debate on that too. But I think what this debate really shows is that at least one thing is certain: ‘I’ll be back.’ We’re going to come back with a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e576	The representative Helge Orten has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e581	Then I'm just going to tell you right away: I live on an island, I'm going to take the ferry later today, so I'm going to practice, and I'm going on an inspection. I think this debate clearly shows the need for an overall review. That is why it is not relevant for us to go into the other proposals that lie here, simply because we believe it would be a short cut in a necessary process to get a comprehensive review of both the advance rates and the price and discount system and see this in a context. So I just want to add a little comment to the Senter Party's proposal on the maximum price. In this case, there would be a significant breach of the practice and system put in place by the Central Party itself in 2010, when these ferry services were transferred to the county municipalities, where they are financed primarily through the framework grant, and where the county municipality has to have a freedom of action within its framework grant to take the necessary steps that the county municipality considers to be appropriate locally. That is why we are going to oppose introducing a maximum price, even though, when we see the increases proposed by some county councils, it may be tempting to say yes to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e590	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e607	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e614	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation. We are now discussing a proposal from several representatives of the Workers' Party that obligations relating to the carriage of goods and local passenger traffic by the coastal route be maintained without delay by a minimum of 50 pst. of the capacity. On 18 September 2020, the Ministry of Transport authorised the Hurtigruten to reduce the voyages to only two ships on grounds of the covid-19 situation, against 11 ships normally. Since the beginning of October the company has therefore sailed with only two ships on the Bergen-Kirkenes-Bergen section. On 12 October the department of Hurtigruten requested to change the planned sailing patterns for the two ships operating on the coastal route, so that from 24 October and 27 October they serve only the Bodø–Kirkenes–Bodø route, which means that 13 out of 34 points of call are cut and the remaining points of call are only reached every three days. The Central Party's proposal for a working situation for the transport of persons and goods in the districts was discussed in Stortinget on 10 November. The proposal was: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the coast route is maintained with six ships and calls at all ports between Bergen and Kirkenes.’ That proposal was defeated, but a loose proposal from the Progress Party was adopted by a majority. It was asked that three additional ships be installed between Trondheim and Kirkenes to ensure the arrival every two days. During the committee reading, the proposal from the Workers' Party was amended, so there is now a proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, which says: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with operators, ports and ship dispatches in order to ensure access and freight and passenger services in all 34 ports of the coastal route.’ I'm now going to introduce the Centre Party's vision. Yesterday, in fact, what happened to the Center Party was going to happen. The Hurtigruten shall sail along the coast with five ships – the whole stretch between Bergen and Kirkenes. This means that all ports along the route will be called almost every two days. I would like to thank Minister of Transport Hareide for being both wise and solution-oriented, for it is actually easy to believe that the minister looked more at the original proposal of the matter, what we promoted, that the whole stretch would go by six ships. The proposals of the Progress Party have a quite unnatural stop destination in Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e637	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e642	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e647	The representative, Siv Mossleth, then brought up the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e652	The working party has been very concerned about the functioning of the coastal route, including in these corona times, both for local traffic and, most importantly, for the critical infrastructure of the coastal route, for freight transport along the coast. When this has barely worked since March 2020, we have seen how much degradation it has been of the freight capacity along our coast. Many of the small freight boats that have operated in the past are no longer there. In the fall, the coast route has only gone with two ships from Bodø to Kirkenes, which has set the whole stretch quite chess mat. Goods must be transhipped several times and lead to more expensive transport and time loss. The expeditions have barely earned money, and many are going bankrupt. It's a notified disaster that Stortinget has been pushing forward a solution. There was a majority in favour of the proposal for three new ships into Trondheim to the Kirkenes, which, after all, is better than just two ships. Yesterday the message came that the solution is five ships on the whole route Bergen–Kirkenes. It's very positive, and quickly and efficiently delivered by the department. The working party will give praise to the Hareide Council to listen to the majority of the population and in addition to expand the offer, so that the entire route is served. For my part, I would like to add that we had hardly got such a solution with the two former Councils of State in the Ministry of Transport. This greatly improved solution despite the need for measures aimed at despatching and handling goods on land. They've got their money from the coast route, and there they've stopped in the pandemic. The Government Parties and the Advance Party make a bold remark in their remarks that the Workers' Party has not provided funds in its draft budget for this purpose. Until then it is the following to say that the Workers' Party has only had access to information on the costs per ship directly from the Coastal Route. We can only relate to the costs of this, from the Ministry of Transport, and not from a single actor. For the Workers' Party, there has been two main focus: freight and local passenger traffic running along the whole coast and seafarers at work. As the majority have been engaged in budgetary negotiations overtime, which has led the Storting to continue a little longer than planned before Christmas, it was not possible to say anything about the costs. I look forward to a briefing by the Minister for Transport on the real costs of the new scheme, but most of all I look forward to the coastal route going into all ports again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e665	We have already had a debate on this issue. I feel that all parties have been committed to finding solutions to improve the offer, and the debate made it clear that several ships will be an extra cost. Our starting point was that we had to take that discussion in the work on the budget for 2021. I am delighted to note that the Council of State has now negotiated an agreement that five ships should go from Bergen to Kirkenes – and back again, of course – in the first quarter. It's very positive. Increased costs are indicated to be approximately. $14.1 million. kr per month, and I expect that there will be a coverage within the framework of the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party adopted yesterday by the Stortinget. Overall, this is a good solution, and better than if the ships were to go only part of the distance. Now there will be calls in all 34 ports and a frequency of almost every other day. I think everyone hopes that a vaccine can get in place as soon as possible, that the situation normalizes as quickly as possible, and that passengers will return to the coast route. There is a lot of evidence that the first half of 2021 still becomes very demanding, but that we can hope for a gradual escalation of the offer beyond the year. In 2021, in addition, there are two actors to serve this tender. We also want to welcome Havila Kystruten, but understand that it will happen at a later date, due to delayed delivery of the vessel. Anyway, the faster we can get into a normal situation, the better. Then a proposal has been made in this matter. I think that the closest thing I can do to what is now on the government's table, with five ships at all 34 ports, and I see no point in voting for that proposal. I believe that it has now been fulfilled by the agreement that the State Council has reached with Hurtigruten in the first quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e678	I don't know if it's because we're getting close to Christmas, but it's now that we have a lot of good words to say about our council in this area, and that's not bad. I agree with what the representative Mossleth also said: I think this has become a very good solution, and it has been a good process, that the government now comes out with a proposal that in many ways brings us together on a good solution. It's very, very good. But it's probably right to say that I don't think this would have happened without a pretty good and active opposition, and that's true of the whole red-green crowd plus the Progress Party. That's got to be right. So the Council of State has jumped on this a little bit and seen it in connection with the budget, and then a good solution has come out. But it's clear that the budgeting process started a lot earlier. The Corona situation has been there throughout the entire process of the budget, so this could have been fixed a lot before, it could. Because I think we have to take over, and I've seen a lot of signs of it, that we haven't been good enough – when I say "we", I'm also in a Christmas mood; I could say that the government hasn't been good enough – to look north and south together. We almost also need to see this in connection with the previous case, with the ferry offer, and we need to see it in connection with aviation, which has been restricted northwards. In addition, together with the reduced coastal route offer, North Norway has lost its connection to the south in many ways. We must be aware of that. And this is tough, these are signals coming from government and big business, and especially from government, which is executive here, and that's not good. It's not good at all. So I sincerely hope that this will get started. So I have some questions for the Council of State, which is a little bit interesting, and which I'm going to do in the line change. I also think it is right to ask, as the representative of the place did. I expect our proposal that the representative Myrli – he is on the list of speakers – will say something about it. I think it's a little pointless that it says there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e687	Of course, it's nice to get good words, but as the representative also suggests: the good words should be so absolutely shared with the opposition here. It was the proposal of the Progress Party that was adopted on 12 November, on the basis of the work that the Ministry has now done. The agreement between the Government Party and the Advance Party has also made it possible to achieve this. But what I want to say is that when a decision is made, then the ministry follows it quickly and clearly, and it has so definitely happened in this case. Now there is a consensus between the ministry and the two companies that are going to bet on the coast, i.e. The Hurtigruten and Havila Kystrutten, who are responsible for these boats from 2021. There is agreement that there will be five boats going from Bergen to Kirkenes. It is in the period from 1 January to 31 March in 2021. It is the temporary agreement under which it is concluded. In that agreement, there are extra licenses that are given to Hurtigruten, and then there's a slightly reduced amount to Havila, who won't be taking boats at this time. The representative also mentions Havila, who has an on-going offer. They've been delayed. I want to say that very much of this delay comes from the corona, because the work at the yard stops, and it creates challenges. But I share the joy that both the Labour Party, the Center Party, the Progress Party and the SV from the opposition here have that we are now getting a better offer. As also the representative Nävra says: I think that when we look north and south, we must be conscious. This applies not least to the provision of flights, which is also important. As everyone knows, we must also work on the 2021 flight offer, which is of great importance. We had hoped that after the summer we would return to a situation that would become more and more normal. Then the cough became darker in the weather, but also attached to the corona, and I think that a more normal situation does not have us within our sector until we actually have a vaccine in place and a spread of that vaccine.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e698	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e704	Government and Stortinget know that the Workers' Party has been very concerned about this with goods and the situation of those who send goods along these routes. Many of them say they're close to bankruptcy. Some of the routes have barely had goods over the berth at all, because the offer has been so reduced. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to ensure that freight services on the coastal route's points of arrival survive financially and will they be provided with compensation for the situation that has existed in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e711	We have also had dialogue with the dispatcher stations and ports on this issue. We should be so honest to say that there is not just a freight problem associated with the fast route. It is also the situation of the ports that have doctored the assessments that have now been made. I'm naturally busy that we're going to have a good network where the coast route goes. There are 34 ports that have a special important offer, which we have to follow up, so I'm occupied with a dialogue about it. I know that there has been a demanding situation, but I am not on a daily basis with information that means that someone has to shut down the activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e716	Once we've worked to get more ships in operation, there's been a lot of discussion about the cost of it. From the Workers' Party it has been difficult to know what has been correct in this. We know what Havila Kystrutten has said to the Committee and in the public vocabulary about the cost of each boat, but can the Council of State estimate the cost per ship per month of the increase to five ships on the Bergen–Kirkenes route, so that the Stortinget is clear about it? Can we know an approximate amount for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e721	What I can say is that the Hurtigruten gets a further 14.1 million compensation. kr because they now carry fewer ships in this particular situation, and with what they expect will be a very low passenger figure during this period. Havila Kystruten has reduced its contribution, but there is a need for extra funds. It's in the budget agreement. There's an amount of $15 million. kr. We do not know exactly where it is – we now have control of the situation from 1 January to 31 March, but what happens after that is uncertain. However, if there is a need for larger funds after 1 April, I may have to come back to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e726	Although the Senter Party originally wanted six ships on the whole route, we really believe that the solution of five ships is to live with for the coastal communities. I am very pleased with the intention of following on if it needs to be increased even more. I really hope that the goods find the way back to the sea. What will the Council of State do to help get more goods across from road to sea when the coast route starts again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e731	When it comes to the objectives that we all have, that we want more goods from road to coast and from road to path, we have good arrangements that we have prioritised in the 2021 budget. I think it's important that we follow them up. I believe that when we come back to a normal situation, the coastal route is up in eleven ships – I am absolutely sure of that – and I also believe that freight traffic will have a more natural consequence of it. So I think we're going to succeed with that. Some of the reasons for Hurtigruten's success are the combination of goods and many who want to travel with them. It's been hard in the Corona situation. Now we get a better situation than we've had. I have to add that I received a postcard from the case manager today, directly from a fast-rope ship, with the wish that this should not be the last fast-rope boat that went. At least there we got right, both of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e740	I think the Council of State came up with a clear explanation about Havila Kystruten. That's what I was actually going to ask about here in the line change, so I'm going to leave it. What's interesting is to hear the Council of State's assessment of, which is not easy, is what happens after the corona, a little reset to normal, because we know that in many ways the bottom has gone out of cruise traffic. What happens then? We have calls now, we've had it with eleven ships over 34 ports, large ships, which may not be made for a lower number of passengers, so it's going to be a bad economy. Can the council say a little bit about what prospects he sees for the situation after the corona, an assessment of the number of passengers, the cruise market and the place of Hurtigruten or Havila Kystrutten in that picture? That's very interesting, and will he do everything in his power to maintain that offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e747	I think that when we get a vaccine and go back to the normal society, we might be forced to have some measures to get it done. I think we should be open to that. We know that there was a discussion about the fast route also in the 1970s. Then the department wanted small boats, which were really just supposed to take goods. The coastal people wanted bigger boats, and got it, and it's been a success. So the coastal population was right in the 1970s; we just did the combination that many can travel with this in shorter distances, but also longer. The success of the coastal route and the high-speed route is the combination of goods, which means so much for some areas, not least from Tromsø and northwards, and passenger traffic and cruise traffic. And at least I want to consider, if not naturally, measures, so that we get back to the good normal state we had before the corona.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e754	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Very much will be speculations and speculations about what happens after the corona, but this is very, very crucial. What's the question, is if the Council of State has an intention to maintain the frequency and the ports of call, that is, the same number. If that's the intention, the reflections might be on the size of the ships – they're made, they're purchased, they're under construction, etc. The intention is then to make funds available so that we ensure – even after the Corona, and even if the ships are then half full – that they go to the same 34 ports, with the same number of ships, i.e. with the same frequency?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e761	My thought is that we're going back to eleven ships that go to 34 ports. This is also why the problem that arose here earlier in the line change is that we ensure that ports actually work, that we have freight forwarders who can actually deliver goods, an important issue. So that should be the thought. So it's asking you what time the escalation is, and I think it's up to the vaccine question, what time we're really back to a normal situation. I also think we should be aware that the boats that are now going to go from 1 January are going to carry a lot of goods, while the passenger number is going to be quite low, that's my expectation, both in January, February and March.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e768	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e774	I would also like to join in the range of those who thank the Minister of Transport for a very constructive approach in this matter. This is The Storting at its best, and this is constructive cooperation at its best between position and opposition, between business and industry actors, employees' organisations and others along the coast who have worked to find a solution. So thank you for that. I perceive that it has been a very good tone and a solution-oriented work – unlike the tone the Progress Party had when we discussed the fast route for a short time back. I would say that in the rolling form, to which Mr. Bård Hoksrud in particular referred, there was no way of how hopeless the proposals from the opposition were. Now, in reality, it is – at least almost – as the opposition suggested. And there was no way how much money this was going to cost, and Hoksrud said the opposition didn't have a cure for it. Now we see the budget agreement, and that's just $15 million. kr that has been added there. I am absolutely sure that both the SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party could also put it in their alternative budgets if it had been a known number. This was a very good solution, and from the Workers' Party's side, the most important thing has been that the fast-riding ships go the whole route Bergen-Kirkenes and Kirkenes-Bergen. There have been clear feedbacks from the freight industry, from freight forwarders and editors that it is about making the ships go all the way. So this is very good. Furthermore, I would like to clarify when it comes to proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, that the intention is that it should not be taken up at all. I understand that the rapporteur, Siv Mossleth, said that this was the proposal in the vote, that is, the recommendation from the committee, which we now also support. What that passion between Arne Nävra and the president led to, I'm a little unsure of – Nävra, as it was said earlier today represented the Socialist Center Party, I heard. Nevertheless, the idea was that minority proposal No. 1, not to be taken up – it's specified. Finally, I would like to raise a matter that the Minister for Transport would like to say a little more about. This applies to Appendix 1 to the budget proposal. In fact, the Minister of Transport writes that there are now changes in the fuel used by high-speed carriers in the coastal route from 1 January. Initially, six out of seven ships were to operate on liquefied natural gas and bioliquids. Instead, they are to go on diesel with the incorporation of biodiesel. I would like the Minister of Transport to explain what that change involves, what it is, and why the government has chosen to inform the Storting about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e787	Then we need to know whether or not the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party should stand. Probably it shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e792	I would like to thank the Council of State for working to find a good solution now. That's good. I understand that Sverre Myrli and Ingalill Olsen now really don't want to talk about the money and rather don't want us to have the debate that we had last time. But it's now that the Workers' Party, despite the fact that we had that debate last time, has not put in a single penny. But then I think a little bit like that: let's rather rejoice that we now get a good solution, thanks to the proposals of the Progress Party – which there was great resistance to, but which got majority, and which now actually got even better. I also think that what is at least important for the Progress Party is to make sure that business and those who live along the coast actually get an offer. It was the most important thing for the Progress Party, and we thought it was most important in that part of Norway where there were few other options. That's why we agreed to the proposal that we made. But what might be the most, the very best thing today, is that now there are many, many people going back to work on the coast route. That's it, best of all, with what's happening now: from January on, there are many people who have been on leave and not in work, who are coming back again. That's some of what I think is very good. Those people need to know that someone is paying for it, and that's what we've managed to get along with the government, in the budget agreement: that's where the money is. Because we have to have clean and orderly jobs for the employees, and they actually have to get paid – they can't work for air and love.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e807	The representative Myrli mentions the fuel link to the coast route, which we have included in the Appendix to the State Budget. I'm going to do the right thing when we have it for treatment, but it's true that when it comes to the changes that have been made there, I feel that there are quite minimal adjustments related to what has been the intention of the Storting. So I'll naturally, in that budget debate, do the closest thing for what the representative Myrli wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e812	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e829	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e836	Thank you to the Committee for good cooperation. Everyone agrees that more cycling is good. Indeed, the share of bicycles in transport has increased dramatically in recent years. The national transport plan for the period 2018–2029 has a target of 8 pst. bicycle share on a national basis and 20 pst. in the cities. We haven't achieved that, but there are some years left of the period. The next NTP shall be adopted in six months. Here the representatives behind this proposal should be impatient, active and should be happy to take concrete action. Bike betting has been the largest in the largest cities. They have had money through their urban growth agreements with the state and not least toll payments from the drivers. Urban growth agreements are toolboxs to develop the overall transport system. I currently live and work in two of the cities that have urban growth agreements, and I cycle a lot. I'm impressed by the evolution in the number of bicycles and not least the standard on the bike paths. I'll be so honest to say that I've thought Trondheim was a far better bike town than Oslo three years ago. It also showed the statistics – a much higher share in Trondheim. But I'm afraid Oslo has taken Trondheim again. The next measurement and statistics will be exciting. Is Trondheim still the best and biggest bicycle town in the country? We know that Kristiansand is close up, and there are several cities knocking on. Especially when I see the Oslo evolution, I actually think they're also high up. But it should be said that Trondheim, in its action plan for the environmental package in Trondheim, has set at 270 million. kr in the following years. So it comes on all fronts. The Committee agrees that the use of bicycles depends on well maintained bicycle paths and safe bicycle parking. Developments in Oslo have speeded up because much more bicycle paths are built apart from pedestrian paths and pavements. In cities there must be own bike paths that are well marked, fat and free from snow in winter. It is these measures that need to be implemented in all cities and agglomerations where bicycles can become a natural precursor. Then we're going to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e847	Work on the National Transport Plan in 2014 developed a national bicycle strategy. During the next government work on the transport plan, this work was not continued. So it was in 2017. Despite this, a number of municipalities and counties have developed their own cycling strategies, based on the national strategy of the previous national transport plan. There are 21 organisations that have submitted consultation responses to the work currently under way with the National Transport Plan and will be dealt with next year. They want a national bike strategy, and they want a hitch on the bike strategy. We have many different plans and action plans in the field of transport. We have a charging plan, we have Barna's transport plan, we have plans for the road sector, the railways and the Coast Guard – all of this as the basis for the NTP, and we have to work together. We have adopted national targets for bicycle sharing, new types of bicycles, and bikes are being talked about when we talk about public health and better accessibility. We are talking about year-round operation, climate targets and road safety, which are also areas that need to be seen in the context. The Workers' Party believes that it is reasonable and good that a separate notification of a national bicycle strategy is being prepared. It will make it considerably easier also for counties and municipalities to be more up-to-date in view of the current situation, several years after the previous cycle plan. With this I address the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV, which is proposal No. 1 in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e860	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e865	The representative proposal addresses an important topic that has only become more important over the years. It is linked to trends in time. We're becoming more inhabitants. This increases transport needs. We have the same international trend as any other country. People move to cities, we live closer, and urban traffic is challenged. Climate challenges require us to reduce emissions. New means of transport make bicycles more relevant as alternatives for several. Both electric bicycles and electric bicycles are examples of new types of bicycles that increase in size. They set other requirements for bicycle planning, and the government has pointed out that this is something that should be looked at from a national perspective. There is a large cross-political consensus on the increased use of bicycles. This includes, inter alia: laid down in the national transport plan in force, as explained by the rapporteur. But consensus is not the same when it comes to the instruments. I don't think it's an instrument to shut down the city gates. That more people choose urban life, there are many reasons that I won't spend time here. I do not believe in closing the cars from the cities either. To this is the need for transport for people with disabilities, and for many, cycling is not an alternative. As the majority of the Committee notes, population density, population composition and topography vary widely, and the measures that work vary from place to place. The government indicates that it is through the national transport plan that the national key actions for increased cycling are presented, and here it would be natural for the government to make its judgements on the organisation of bicycles. It is a matter of facilitating cycling in such a way that it is safe for both cyclists and fellow passengers. The county and municipality have an important responsibility for the organisation of bicycles. I believe that a lot is involved in smart planning – that new areas of housing and jobs are fairly remote from each other, so that bicycles and bicycles are attractive ways of moving between home and work, and that children and young people can safely get to school and leisure activities without having to drive to and from. It is also a question of whether the cycle paths or pedestrian paths have adequate maintenance that makes them attractive to use large parts of the year. Here lies the main responsibility of municipalities and counties. The potential for increased use of bicycles is highest in the largest cities, and this is where most government funds are used. At the same time, funds are also used for the investment and operation of bicycle facilities along bicycle paths in other parts of the country. In urban areas with urban capitals or reward schemes, good areas for cooperation have been established. It is important to develop local and regional strategies adapted to each urban area and region. Then the national perspective will be taken into account in the work on the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e878	As several of the previous speakers have pointed out, there is a strong consensus that the use of bicycles is sensible and important, and that there is something we should focus positively on and facilitate. But for us in the Progress Party, volunteering and freedom of choice are important keywords here. Sometimes you take a car, sometimes a bus, sometimes you take a boat, sometimes you take a train. Sometimes you go, and sometimes you want to ride a bike. We're not going to use the whip. There is nothing at all that the Progress Party supports. But unfortunately, we've seen a lot of examples that especially the left-hand side is very happy to use whips. You go far enough to the left, it seems like you almost have a sacred relationship with trying to force people to ride and prevent people from driving a car. It takes a great deal of distance from the Advance Party. What is particularly important about the use of bicycles is two things: there is public health – there is no doubt that it is healthy to move and get fresh air – and that is road safety. It's important to get a combination of the two things. In this context, there is a known problem called ‘road normals’. The center party had a suggestion about it for a while back. The Progress Party then chose not to support the proposal. The government parties did not agree to that either, and the reason for this was that the government is already working to look at a change in road standards in order to build a more bicycle path cheaper and simpler. Several such project paths have been built around the country, almost at work. There are many local farmers and a lot of local business that have contributed. The local population has set up work, and they have given up land for free even. In Ringsacht, my municipality of residence, we have several such projects. The problem is rigid rules from the Road Directorate as regards distance to the road, as far as ditches between road and cycle path are concerned, in terms of width, curve and asphaltification requirements. There are many different requirements that make it very expensive. Then we have a big problem all around the country: more and more municipalities and counties want more bike paths, because it is important for public health and road safety, but due to rigid rules there is no money to build enough bicycle and pedestrian routes. It is in particular that a rigid regulatory framework and strict requirements in road standards should prevent the construction of simpler and cheaper bike routes. Everything is safer and better than walking or cycling on the road shoulders. That's one of the worst things you can do. It's simply life-threatening, to say it a little bit directly. So simpler and cheaper solutions are important, and hopefully we will. I want to end by encouraging the Minister to find out again the work that has been started, but which I fear is in a drawer. We need to get a case of changes in road standards in the Stortinget so that we can get more bike and walking routes across Norway in a cheaper and simpler way, to the pleasure of the drivers and those who want to walk along the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e893	There is a great deal of consensus about increasing the use of bicycles. It is defined in the national transport plan and a target of 8 pst has been adopted. bicycle share on a national basis and 20 pst. bicycle share in cities. The basis for this is a national bicycle strategy, which was part of the national transport plan, entitled ‘Sats on Bicycle!’. The document proposes both national targets and areas of action to promote bicycles as transport modes and everyday activities. There is no doubt that this should be put in place, there must be an increased effort from the state and the municipality. The urban growth agreements have been discussed here, and there's an arena to be able to achieve this relatively quickly and efficiently. It is also important that the guidelines for the NTP we are to deal with in the springpart contain a revision of the cycle strategy. I think it is very important that this revision should include the dimension that this should apply to the whole country. I think what you're now working on in the cities is good. I think you now have to focus on the remaining parts of the kingdom. The fact that there are different goals about how many are going to bike has its natural causes. But, as the representative of the Progress Party said, it is very important to have flexibility in how to build walking and cycling routes. I have been rapporteur in a municipality where we have used a lot of self-interest, money and motivation – often in cooperation with travel life, because bicycles are also popular as part of the tourist destinations with which the municipalities want to present themselves. Obviously, it's hard if there's something that's not exactly within the norm. We made a bicycle route, among other things. Over the brain that was a combination of existing roads and some newly built bicycle paths, but when the Vegvesen heard that it was not asphalted, it was not really interesting for them to be on anything. We use the same paths today for example. ski, and there are very few like bikes over the Hierkin winter time. So I think flexibility, and getting the rest of the country into some kind of activity that is both very healthy and, not least, environmentally friendly, must be part of the revision of this bike strategy. We in the Center Party believe that this is a natural part of the NTP. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e906	The representative Bengt Fasterale has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e911	I'll explain a little bit about the thoughts behind this Document 8. I'll also see if I'll have time to make my own post to the representative Johnsen afterwards, I guess he deserves it. Norway has been far behind in giving the bicycle the space it deserves. I think many here can agree with the development of cycling in Norway. We have road and train action plans, we have urban development outlooks, etc. In the past, we have had a national strategy for cycling, which has been abandoned and forgotten, and which has faded a little. I now hope that the cycling state council will launch and clear-cut a good, revised version of the national bike strategy for the NTP. I'll get to that a little bit later. I had hoped that the bulk of the population and the committee would support their own big message about a bike strategy. It's now a little bit more prestigious, and it's a little bit more basic work. And not least, the transport committee was cycling in Copenhagen in August 2018. You'd think it put back some impressions both visually and maybe a little bit in the legs of that bike ride. It was seen how crucial the bicycle has become throughout the transport system in a city if you are to facilitate it. And with the inlet of the electric bicycle in Norway now, and in the world, it has become a factor in the transport system – really! When you think about Norway's topography, there's actually no excuse for not using the bike anymore. We used it before -- it might be hard to ride home again. We like to live up a little high, and then we have the workplace down there, or the station down at the bottom of the valley, and the pub is there. But with the electric bicycle, it's a whole new situation, which makes us actually have to count on it as a means of transport. If we had now had a national strategy that had gone through all the proposals like this. The Cyclic Association has, and as all the organizations involved in the environment have, and come up with their own investigation, we would have had a good basis for discussion. We think of all the things that such an investigation, such a big message, could come up with. Just think of the traffic rules in favour of the bicycles in relation to other road users, better signage, marking of roads, routine check, maintenance and snow clearance, etc. – different judgements like that. At least you could make demands on local authorities and private developers, maybe, about safe bicycle parking – just that! When the electric bicycles cost approx. 30 000 kroner, it's important that you get parked safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e922	I now give the floor to a state council with good experience from the cycling world.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e928	The president and I were on the Transport Committee ten years ago. At that time I never think I had a bike ride, but it's great to right that this transport committee is further ahead and just had it in Copenhagen. And if we start with the corona situation, I could say that here's one of the points where we've actually experienced something positive. It has been a pleasure to ride bicycles, for example. Oslo and experience as many as bicycles, just because one feels it's safe. Of course, the disease situation is related, but also to the improvement and improvement of the organisation. Only the urban growth agreements that we now have in the four largest cities make the state contribute 15.7 billion. kr for public transport measures and measures for pedestrians and sick people, and SEK 12,3 billion. in reward funds through the agreement, which are just for action, and where there are local priorities for those who are walking and who are on the ground. I mean the urban growth agreements for the four largest cities are a success, and there are good reasons for continuing that work, not leaving it with the four largest. We know that Tromsø, Kristiansand District, Buskerudbyen, Grenland and Lower Glomma are also involved, and I think these are measures where we see that we really get back. In fact, I can also name my own municipality of residence, Bømlo. They built a new road system, and at the same time they built walking and cycling roads. That's to say that from the time I grow up there, there's an Eldorado to ride. One has a great path, but one also has safe walking and cycling roads that allow children and young people to ride there safely, completely free of cars. What we see is that there are often good packages of road development and pedestrian and bicycle development, and if there is then a cost exceedance, it is very easy that traffic measures for the soft road users are what goes out. It's a real challenge. And then I want to point out what we've been discussing, that we're looking at this with the road normals, how we can have flexibility in it without going beyond quality, but also so that we don't have to have a standard that's so high that we can't build, because there's a lot of possibilities to do it. I share many of the intentions put forward in this proposal. Our response to the representative from Nävra is that we want to follow this up in the national transport plan, where we have a clear target both on bicycles and on how we should follow it up. This is precisely what we have to do with tools that deal with safe schooling, walking and cycling systems and land-use planning that facilitate cycling and walking.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e939	It's going to be a string shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e944	There I got the word so quickly that I never got a response from my political adviser on how many kilometres of the cycle path this state budget implies for next year – but she could give me that answer. I've compared the state budget for almost every year and seen how many kilometers of new bike path have been established on the basis of the state budget that year, and it's been quite sad to see that it's only been a few kilometers. In the current year it will be opened approx. 5.5 miles with four-field highway – for costs that I would think are quite different per metre than for sailing the most beautiful bicycle path. My question, to conclude a little bit, is then: Based on NTP, which the Council of State wants to use as an instrument to assess the position of the bicycle, how extensive is the investigation to come? Will a national cycle strategy be included in the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e951	I think that just the kind of questions that Növra comes up with here will get a very good answer to in NTP. Some of the things I've noticed are that some of the permits for walking and cycling have not been used up in the last few years. What I think is a real challenge, how we actually do it, because it has also been a political ambition about it. I'd like to give the Advance Party the brilliance for the bike path that I had the joy of opening in Stavanger. Yes, he had a significant cost, but I thought the Progress Party had done a good priority, even though the cost was high. It costs a lot of money to make arrangements in the urban areas for bicycles and bikes, but I think I'll get it back. Because this gives an effect that combines environmental and health benefits with – I would say – the experience of cycling, I think we get back for the promises. That's why it's important for me to see this in a sanity, and we're just going to see cycling in a sanity when we present NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e960	I thank you for your answer. I'm very concerned to see how extensive this investigation is, that is, how much space the bike gets in the national transport plan. At least I get the impression from the Council of State that he views the bicycle as an important means of transport. This means that the cycle also in the NTP – if we can call it a national bike strategy that is being introduced into the NTP – will have a big place, that it will be an investigation for the basis on which it will in many ways be based, that it can be as heavy as its own big message. Can the Council of State say a little about the scope of the investigation to be carried out in connection with – if we can get to call it that – a national bike strategy introduced into the NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e969	We have the target of 8 pst. bicycle part. We've got 20 pst. in the cities. In the cities there has been a formidable development associated with bicycle paths. In Oslo we have seen it, but also in the other cities that have also got urban growth agreements. I would also say that in cities like Kristiansand we see a positive development overall. When we look at this, we just have to look at the health, and I think the key to success is seeing the area and planning together. Well, that's what we're happy about. As I also said, when it applies to some of the measures we have chosen to prioritise when we have come up with different schemes, we see that it has not necessarily been used up. When it comes to urban growth agreements, we see that the measures are going well, and we are happy with them. We now have it in the four largest cities, and I now call five new urban areas that I have at least an ambition to get started. I have been clear in the dialogue with Tromsø, which is clear, but then they must of course stand still on their way home.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e974	The representative Nävra can get a third line.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e979	Yeah, it's so nice to be able to get some lines, President. Urban growth agreements are one thing, it's very, very good, and, as the Council of State knows, SV is one of the big champions for medium-sized cities too. It's a great tool, it's a great tool we have, and I think at least the majority in the hall thinks it's a good arrangement. But then we also have these solutions for walking and cycling routes, especially bike paths on a little longer distances, in districts between cities. Then we don't get away from the fact that it goes on appropriations for county roads, and it goes on appropriations for highways. There have been very, very small appropriations for this in the last state budgets. I have to say it has been quite pitiful. Is that against the wishes of the Council of State? Has he in any way lost his intentions in the negotiations on those state budgets, or does he think that the last state budgets have been reasonably good budgets for bicycle routes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e988	Some of the things that have bothered me are that we haven't been able to use up some of the money that we've seen for this, and then it says something that we also have to look at the structure. So I'm going to think that when we, for example, It is important that we do not first build the road, get an overpass, and then stop before we have built the walk and cycle path, as we have also seen examples. So I see that there's a positive ambition, but there's something about the systems that we have, that's there today. Several representatives have also mentioned, for example, the normal ones we have. We also need to have quality when it comes to bicycles, but with a flexibility that means that when we first expand a road, we should expand it a little bit so that we get walking and cycling roads in District Norway, for example. There is no doubt that building walking and cycling roads is often a big uphill in District Norway, and I think we should look at this in NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e993	All municipalities in Norway have very long priority lists for the development and wish lists for the construction of bicycle and pedestrian routes, and the situation in the counties is the same. The challenge is not that there are too few wishes and too few projects. It's the money that doesn't stretch. The problem is the rigid rules that allow you to build fancy and expensive bike and walking routes, even in the village. It has even gone in the wrong direction, because more of the projects we are building now are such express bicycle routes, which are in addition up to 6 meters wide, and then get an even less public health and road safety for the money than the goal for us in the Progress Party. We really don't need any new national plans, which are especially concerned with SV, and we don't have to wait for the NTP either. We need action now, and we need a case from the government to get new road standards. The question then is: how is the status of follow-up work to road standards, in order to build simpler and cheaper bike and walking routes also in the countryside?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1000	I had the pleasure of being allowed to open an express bike path that was initiated by the Progress Party when they were in government. Yes, it had a significant cost, but it costs to build that type of tool in urban areas. So I share with the representative Johnsen's intention that we have to have a flexibility, and that's what we're working on. And as I've said several times, it's so that we haven't been able to use up all of the funds we've seen to these areas. It seemed to me to be a defeat, because there is so much need for cycling and walking in the district of Norway. I thought the developments we see in the four largest cities and around the urban growth agreements have been very good, but Norway as a whole is fast-moving, and we know that there is often a great promise for a district municipality or for the county to do the same thing, to build walking and cycling roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1008	A little follow-up to what the representative Johnsen asked for instead: we had a rather long debate about standards and normals, and it was said that this should do something about it, and it should be done quickly, so I sincerely hope that happens. But I want to ask the Council of State a question in this regard. People out in the districts are waiting for a road, and it's only when the road comes, that they think they can get a one-time and bike path, and then it happens that they don't get it. We have seen, among others. in the urban growth agreements, that solutions were negotiated where the bicycle routes as part of the road development were actually located quite elsewhere, because it was sensible, instead of along the road. Is it possible, when these normals are standardised, that you can see so wide, and that this is not just a road standard next to, for example, a highway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1015	I think I have received several good questions in this replica box, which just brings this up by looking at the health. Even if the E18 project has been re-examined, a project where there is a motorway, we can see there just by bicycle and walkway in that health, and I think that's very good. I also used Bømlo as an example. When they built a new road, they used a part of the old road for example. walking and cycling roads, natural. They saved costs, but they saw it into a sanity. I think the representative Fasterøne is absolutely right. To a great extent, we thought that we would first build the road, and then we would build a pedestrian and bicycle road in the rear. We have to look at this in a health room, and see that at the same time, we get a much better result.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1020	I've got some feedback on cycling in protected areas, and then I'm talking about roads in protected areas where it's actually allowed to ride a normal bike, but where you now have challenges because of the motorcycling law and can't ride an electric bicycle. An example is from Hjerkinn to Snøheim, as the council knows well. Will the Council of State, when making such a bicycle strategy, take an initiative towards the Council of State, Rotevatn, and get an order of what I would call a problem that has arisen because you don't have a good enough code, when we now go into the NTP work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1025	There's no doubt that the electric bike gives us a lot of new possibilities, and it's very positive to say in all the leads, but we also get a problem position like this, because it's clear that a motorcycle has a very big engine power in it. Looking at this vis-à-vis that type of area is a problem that I thought Mr. Fasterøne, the representative, is in favour of recording, but it's not necessarily just a simple answer to that, because we know how sensitive this area is. We've had cabin expansions, we've had tourist cabins that we've considered very carefully, we've had road sections, we've had roadways that we've actually said shouldn't be available in this area. Now I am in the responsibility of another government council, I select when I speak. I think you need to look at that, because this is a new tool that's coming. But of course, there's not so much difference in haste between a motorcycle and a moped.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1030	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1035	The representative Johnsen has a tendency to get me up in the pulpit, and that's the way it is again. The representative Johnsen is in many ways a great release of the Progress Party, the Reinspikka and the rank. So he's talking about SV wanting whips for people to ride. That I thought was funny, it must mean that SV wants coercion! [[Laughter]] We don't, it's a completely voluntary case, but it has to be arranged for cycling, I get to say to the representative Johnsen. So there's another funny point here -- it's kind of nice to be a little fun now when it's getting closer to Christmas. One thing is that the representative Johnsen believes that we may need to build bicycle roads on good roads. He wants to stimulate the spirit of hard work and talk about farmers etc. which may contribute in that context. But then there's a slogan he didn't dare to use, for it was Arne Nävra's slogan that pertained to roads, and that's that we're going to build far and safe, not wide and expensive. That's what Johnsen's probably going to use on bicycle paths. I can agree that we're going to assess the quality and normal of our bike paths, that's quite right, but I don't think it's going to be rolled over bike paths that have a pretty high cost in nearby streets. If the representative Johnsen is looking at what traffic we are now on the bicycle path between, for example. Fornebu and the center, it's pretty formidable. If that's how the bike becomes a real means of transport, as a large percentage of the transport to and from the city, then of course we have to make it possible to pass each other at a relatively high speed. Then it has to have another width, and it actually costs some money. I was not allowed to answer all the questions with the Council of State either. I want to mention that it is quite shocking that we are not getting used up all the funds for the bike routes. I really don't understand what that's all about. But now it is the responsibility of a Council of State to see things slip, that the agencies cooperate, that the levels of government cooperate. I assume that this may have some connection with cooperation between county councils, municipalities and state – it may quickly be – but I would like the council to respond a little to what he thinks is the reason for it, and what action he will take to ensure that at least the funds, which are so small, are used up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1046	There's a lot of interest around bicycles, and creativity is pretty big around. I would like to suggest some municipal measures to increase the winter cycle. In Oslo, there has been a support scheme for the purchase of tyres. When Trondheim introduced the same thing on a proposal from the Left in the city council this fall, there was a deadline set to apply. After two days, there were 1,300 pieces that had applied for 1500 kroner for high-fat tyres. Then the pot was empty, unfortunately, but it shows that there is a great interest here in trying new ways of transporting itself. Transport is often measured in transport operations. In Trondheim, for example, as I know best, there is about as much transport work going on on bicycles as on buses. It is then clear that conditions also need to be facilitated for that mode of transport, because it is even better in both climate and health perspectives than bus use. Now I also know that it has something to do with distance, and that it's not suitable for everyone to use bicycles, but it's very interesting, and fortunately, it's still the youngest who rides the most. That's the way it was before – then we cycled to school, almost all of us. There are still many people who ride bicycles to school, but there are particularly hard-pressed journeys to and from work. The use of bicycles will increase, and new technologies with electric bicycles and electric bicycles will increase the need for better and proper infrastructure. Here I think this with normals and road normals really needs to be taken care of a little bit. If you're going to increase the speed, where the council was going, and the volume is getting much larger, we have to be careful to relax too much on the bike standards we have. It may be possible to do so on some routes, as the representative Bengt Fasteraune was in, but you have to be careful – we don't have to get unsafe bike paths.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1055	I cannot disapprove the coercive comment of Mr Nävra's representative. I think Nävra misunderstands me a little. It is not necessarily the cyclists who are being whipped, it is the drivers that SV loves to whip and force to start cycling by removing parking spaces, by increasing the cost of driving a car, by introducing road traffic bans, parking bans and driving-in bans, and in worst cases simply prohibiting people from using a car. It's going to be whipping the motorists onto the bike, and not those who want to ride from before, because they're doing it enough on their own initiative. I also think it's a little interesting when Nävra pulls this in with hard work and peasants and almost skips around it. It's actually very interesting and very important, and it's a serious example of how much need really is out there, how much commitment and interest are in order to get a bike and walkway, or a public health road, as they call it, for example. up to Lake Sea and Rings, where I live. I live in Ringzag, Norway's largest cabin municipality. In the interior, in Hedmark, Trysil is also the second largest cabin municipality in Norway. My colleague Bengt Fasterale comes from Uppland. The two old Uppland and Hedmark counties are two of Norway's largest counties. There are insanely many municipalities in need of better and safer bike routes along county roads and municipal roads and even along national highways. So instead of coercion and pissing and laughing a little bit of the Progress Party, Nävra should also contribute and work with us to get more kilometers. To quote Nävra: Long and safe is better than wide and expensive – or how the wording was. At least there is something I had hoped SV could join. Then I'm very happy that Nävra mentions Denmark, because that committee trip was very interesting, we just have a slightly different angle on the visit. What I remember was that the requirement was 2 meters wide on the cycle path with 2,000 cyclists. The standard that is now being built is 5-6 meters. In Brumunddal, for example, where we've got a new, nice express bike path, it says on the sign that measures traffic there, that there are 150 cyclists who use it, and that's probably every way, because you like to ride to work and go back again. This means that there are 75 cyclists on a 5–6 metre cycle path, while in Denmark there is a requirement of 2 metres and a few thousand cyclists. That we're going to raise the standard, we're going to have as few bikes as possible, be like the Progress Party is going to start working for the eight-field highway. We're not there yet. So I hope that everyone can send a little reminder to the government and Hareide and the government and make sure that we get this matter processed as quickly as possible. There is no reason to wait for the NTP to have flexible road standards that allow you to build simpler and cheaper bike and walking routes. And it's especially in the countryside this is topical and important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1068	I'll just take the word to solve two things in the end. That's the one thing about the question from Nävra, and the other is what Tor André Johnsen is raising. I want to say that when it comes to road standards, we see it as a matter of our own – we have also discussed it earlier in this Chamber, about how we can get more flexibility to some of the quality requirements where we think it's defensive. So I think we have to take the perspective of Gunnes into it, but I think we can still look at it. Some of what I experience, not least when I'm out in District Norway, for example. where there are two centres with two or three kilometres between, many people not only want to have a road there, but they also want a one-way and a bike path that makes it safe not least for children and young people to go to the center. To what the representative Nävra refers, I have no better answers than what I have given earlier. There's something we need to look at. Why can't we use up these funds? It could be attached to the property. It may also be that only projecting takes too much resources and that it is only when one does the big second job that one should actually do once and a half. That's something we're looking at. I hope that just a bicycle will shape a national transport plan. It gives a good effect, and without going too far with whips and carrots, there is no doubt that there are also some who sit on the bike because they see that the option can be a little demanding. And just in cities, that's how the whole thing must be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1081	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1098	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1105	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation in this communication. Both pension funds abroad and domestic had their best year last year. The Social Security Fund's return was probably 12 pst. The return of SPU on the stock of shares was a total of 26 p.m. We're going to be happy for that, as this year has become the pandemic, with the need for tens of billions extra to mitigate the economic consequences. The corona also hit the fund, which went under 10,000 billion. kr this spring, but now in the autumn it has turned to the 11 000. A fund whose return covers 20 pst. Of the state budget — and more when we need it, as we do now — we will take good care of it. So it is gratifying that it is practically a unanimous attitude we are discussing here today. There is a broad consensus on: the objective of the fund – to create the best possible values long-term interest — future generations should also benefit from this the values — to be managed responsibly in terms of sustainability, tax ethics and decent working conditions in companies in which we invest The larger such a fund becomes, and the more markets it has to enter in order to spread risks, the more often it will encounter challenges and dilemmas. Good guidelines and instruments have been developed over time to allow the fund to be a decent and exemplary investor. However, when challenges are increasing, both from markets where standards create problems for transparency and control, and from climate change the economic activity contributes to, policies and tools need to be developed. In this context, an overall committee calls for administrative practices to be tightened so that money laundering, tax evasion and other financial crime can also lead to the fund's withdrawal. We want to strengthen the fund's work on taxation and transparency, which the new manager of the fund has pointed out profitably as an important area. Lifting up tax ethics in the ethical guidelines will clarify the importance of this. The Committee also supports the many proposals put forward by the Committee on Ethics in its investigation, including: an extension of the weapon criterion. I have not registered serious objections to any of these proposals in the consultation round or the debate. This setting expresses a clear expectation that the government of next year's message will follow them up, so that they can be implemented. There is one instrument in the ethical administration that is being promoted by several non-governmental organisations and there is risk-based ex ante filtration. In its opinion, the Committee asks for an assessment of this instrument in markets with so-called different standards. It appears to be reasonably simple in relation to product criteria, but more demanding in relation to ethical standards. But I expect the government in next year's communication to provide a thorough assessment of the possibilities of using risk-based pre-filtering in markets that are otherwise demanding to be informed, and what this might impose on the management of the fund. There is some disagreement in the setting of how to deal with the needs of the Public Resources Fund for increased investment frameworks. Now the government is going to think about this, but some of the parties, for example. My own, therefore, believes that also giving the fund more space on Oslo Stock Exchange should be included in the assessment. Finally, for some mysterious reason, the Minister of Finance found the need to point out that the opening given to the fund to invest in unlisted renewable energy infrastructure is not a ‘must’, but an option. Some of us experience it as a rematch attempt. Therefore, we point out that there was an expectation behind this in the house. Now the new oil fund manager has said that they have put together a very competent team to work on this, so it will be. At the same time, he has pointed out that there are many on the subject of such investments in the United States and Europe. This, of course, must be part of the assessment when investments are to be made. Therefore, it is also pointed out that these investments will take place within the framework laid down. Neither of us believes that such investments should be ‘pull and drive’. Then I expect the parties that have the few divergent comments that are in the setting, to explain them themselves. With this I recommend the setting too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1138	The state pension fund abroad, the oil fund, saves Norway indebtedly through the crisis. Where other countries are dwindled by debt, we should come out with strength and optimism. So thank you so much to all those who have put on the boiler harness and traveled to the North Sea to create the values, and thank you to all the capable people who realized that the revenues had to be managed wisely, so that they benefit both today's and future generations. The fund is a single long success story. In 2019, the market value passed 10 000 billion for the first time. kr, which is three times the annual value creation of the mainland economy. Measured in dollars, last year we had the largest capital increase in the fund's history, and this year we passed 11,000 billion for the first time. kr. ‘Should be!’ The fund is our common savings fund. We must never forget that the target is the highest possible return for AS Norway. The fund is not, and must never be, a political tool. You don't double the savings for generations to come. At the same time, the Fund shall invest responsibly, promote good corporate governance and take into account the environment and society. That is why it is good that we actively work on areas such as tax and transparency, climate and human rights. The risk-based downsales so far have given positive returns. That is good, and we believe that in unlisted renewable energy infrastructure there are also opportunities for more profitable investments. Responsible management is also about reducing financial risks and protecting our savings. Climate change is real and dangerous, the world must cut its emissions, the Paris Agreement and the UN's sustainability objectives must be achieved. Countries by country are taking the necessary measures and, in addition to climate change itself, the measures taken to counter them will also affect the companies in which the fund has invested and the long-term return. The fund is a universal and long-term owner, and what is a risk to the world can also be a financial risk to the fund. The pandemic has seriously confirmed that. Therefore, it is good that the fund already has a lower carbon intensity than the reference index, and therefore we ask the government to assess how the fund manages climate risk in the future. Economic crime can also pose a risk, and there are good arguments for assessing the extension of the corruption criterion to other serious economic crime and organisation. Therefore, we ask the government to assess such restrictions on companies where there is an unacceptable risk of such conditions occurring. The Mestad Committee has made a number of recommendations for the further management of the Fund, which we look forward to getting more thorough assessments of and treatment in the spring’s communication. The oil fund is growing, and we must ensure that the ethical guidelines are followed up. It is therefore important that the cooperation between the Ethics Council and the Bank of Norway is free of squeaks, and not least we need to ensure that the Ethics Council has at all times sufficient resources and competences to carry out its comprehensive and important mission. It is gratifying that, as the finance committee, we can stand together on something as important as our common savings fund and our common well-being. I would particularly like to thank the case rapporteur for a good and responsible cooperation, and I look forward to continuing the good cooperation and the broad consensus also in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1161	It's a team-up of me that has a lot of ownership of the state pension fund abroad: Sigbjørn Johnsen. He used to use the expression that we have to have "puck on the book". That's a very good expression. And when we see how much "pee" we have on the book, we have to be, as Stokkebø said, very grateful to those who have actually done the job in the Norwegian oil and gas industry, and the enormous values it has created for ourselves, and then we have to be grateful to the politicians who gave us the basis for getting those revenues. So some comments about the setting. Item No 1: The highest rate of return is the main objective of the State pension fund abroad — the highest rate of return over time. When it's going to be over time, it has to be not too high a risk, because hopefully we're going to have this as a source of return to the community for generation after generation. We see how much we have all spent on the oil fund, or the state pension fund abroad, in the year that has gone by. It has been absolutely essential. That is why I very much agree with Mr Stakkebø's approach and what is in the position, that we should not politicise the oil fund unnecessarily. Of course, as long as it's the Community fund, it'll always be political discussion and conversations around it, but we'll be careful to put too many political purposes into the fund, for the main purpose is to fund our community. It is a very important political purpose, and it must be the main purpose. Then we've made limits on what we're going to invest in, because we're going to be able to stand for the ethical as a society, and those limitations have gradually changed over time. Therefore, the central party agrees with the government when they have a cautious approach to opening up more and more investment in unlisted companies and unlisted shares. We also agree with the government in the discussion on investment in unlisted renewable energy infrastructure. It has to be done carefully, it has to be gradual, it has to be thought through. One reason why the oil fund is as large as it is is that there is security around ownership, that there is security around investment in the different countries. The more unlisted companies we go into, the greater the risk. So we have to be careful. We're not against it, but we need a conservative approach. There's nothing urgent, you have to step forward gradually and piecefully. Then we also have a different tradition in Norway. It is that when we have had a lot of resources of a commodity – whether it is forest, fish or oil and gas – we have had a thought that industry and jobs will be built in Norway. It's been Norwegian history. We are a small country, and we have thought that it will create jobs. That's why we've added to the central party's attitude that when we have the big commodity capital, which we have so much of now -- enormously, it's become one of our big new commodities -- we can create more jobs and more industry with the background to it. That is why we want to start a process in the position and in proposals to see if we can move more of the jobs around the management of the capital of the State pension fund abroad, home to Norway, and that more management environments can be built in Norway. We believe that it is important over time that we also have a national industrial strategy, a work-place strategy, around the management of the fund that is to fund our common well-being over time. With that, I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1176	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1181	Let me start by thanking the rapporteur for working well on this position and this communication and the Committee for other good cooperation. As others have noted, this is a relatively uncontroversial message, with little policy in it. This may be the case in crisis years. It is unusual for this communication to be the one leading to at least a debate on the oil fund in a year. It might say something about the fact that there has been a year when there are other things too that have shaped the debate related to the oil fund and the management there, at good and bad. As the case-rapporteur pointed out, there has been a year of good returns both in the Swedish Social Security Fund and in the oil fund, and what is pleasing is that over time you can have a return that is better than the reference index. That means that all the skilled employees in both funds do something right, and they do it on behalf of the entire Norwegian people and us taxpayers. It's really just one relationship I want to mention explicitly, and it's: what's going to happen to the Social Security Fund in the future? We very much agree with both the fund itself and the government that it is in danger of becoming an over-owner of Oslo Børs, and therefore it is natural to look at other mandates of the Social Security Fund. We may well fear that what the Ministry of Finance wants is a single withdrawal from the Swedish Social Security Fund that is being placed in the SPU. We're not necessarily comfortable with that being the best solution. The Committee has received good input in the handling of this Communication, including: from the food associations in the Trondheim region and in Bergen, which point out that the withdrawal can be used for a more decentralised model of government capital management. We think the wit is roughly evenly distributed across the country. It's not like you have to be in Oslo to run good capital management. It shows capital management environments around the country every year, that there are more that can handle it. Where the previous speaker, Battle Violence Vedum, wanted to limit it to the oil fund, SPU, we also want to look at the decentralised management of the People's Security Fund, both on mandate and where you sit in the country and manage the funds. Although there is a note in this position that has not been given a majority, we expect that there is something the Ministry of Finance looks at when submitting the fund announcement to spring, so that it is also illuminated, and that the Storting can make the best possible decisions based on good spending from the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1194	I too would like to begin by thanking the Committee and the rapporteur for their very good cooperation in the handling of this big message. Often it is presented in this room as if all the discussion about what the fund is invested in is a sort of premature politicisation of the fund. I think that is wrong. First of all, it is a naive notion that today the fund itself is not a policy – yes, foreign policy. Norway owns 1 pst. of the world's shares. The fund is closely linked to Norway, which it should be, and is closely followed by both international media, international business and civil society. In fact, it should be lacking. Therefore, there may often be concerns about signal effects about what the fund is not invested in, while at the same time the signal effect of what it is actually invested in can be much greater. Fortunately, this has been taken seriously by the establishment and modification of ethical guidelines and by decisions on both reference index and investment universes. We have also clearly expressed expectations about the Bank of Norway and its management. In total, these have been wise decisions that have made the fund better, more ethical and environmentally friendly, and better equipped to also have high returns in a long-term perspective. In the opinion, the Committee would point out that: ‘since 2012, the fund has been selling out of 282 companies as a result of risk assessments relating to the environment, social conditions and corporate governance and that these sales in 2019 contributed positively to the return on the equity portfolio. Investments in the environmental mandates contributed positively to the return’. The management of the fund is both politically and operationally about understanding the future. Here, understanding the enormous changes that climate change will bring is very central. Therefore, it is essential, in the SV's view, that the Committee emphasises the importance of the Fund's efforts to manage climate risk and transitional risks in the fund's portfolio. We also ask the Ministry of Finance to assess whether the Norwegian Bank framework to choose a different composition of investments than the reference index to achieve a better relationship between returns and risks and reduced costs is sufficient to manage climate risk. The Committee also points out that some of the world’s major institutional investors have recently set themselves the goal of achieving a climate-neutral investment portfolio, and the Committee – or at least the majority of the Committee – welcomes the government’s timely assessment of whether the oil fund should also pursue similar objectives. Another important step in the future management for better risk assessment and management is pre-filtering. It is about having a reference index in which companies have been pre-filtered according to ethical and environmental criteria. Such a framework will enable the fund to avoid investments where the risk is too high, inter alia. contributing to violations of international standards, and where the companies concerned are unable to satisfy us that they have policies and practices that reduce this risk. The large index suppliers today, including those supplying the fund today, also provide different ESG indices, or sustainability indices. Ethical indices are in reality many of them, and they are fully possible to develop further. It is therefore very positive that a Joint Committee now asks the Ministry to assess risk-based pre-filtering as an instrument when the Fund enters differing standards markets. In the long term, such pre-filtering should, in the SV’s view, apply to all markets in which the fund is invested and filtering must be based on both ethical standards and climate risk. In particular, there will in the future be an increasing risk of being invested in companies if plans are not at all in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Finally, SV is also very pleased that the Committee is clear that the government needs to assess whether tax ethics should be explicitly addressed in the ethical guidelines and that serious financial crime and the organisation of it should be added to the guidelines. It's in its place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1218	Yesterday we had the financial debate, and we have hardly had any debate that has more clearly shown the state pension fund abroad's importance to Norway. We are currently seeing this in the crisis situation that we are in, with the huge transfers we have in the state budget in the current year, and that will also have to be followed up to the next year – the large transfers that enter the state budget each year to cover deficits as we get more back to normal. I would also like to thank the Committee on the examination of the Fund Communication. To a large extent, we have come to an agreement. I would also like to emphasise the consensus there is for the tightening up of the corruption criterion where we are asking for it, in terms of money laundering, tax evasion and other financial crime. And then I'll point out a couple of other relationships. It is clear that climate change is an enormously important financial risk factor, both the physical risk of climate change and how it affects companies, and the transitional risk of moving into a more climate-friendly economy, and its impact on the investment of the oil fund. A lot of the state pension funds abroad are now doing to have a positive impact on climate action internationally. Much of it is driven by political decisions here in the UK regarding the exclusion of companies. This is particularly true of the discussion that took place some years ago when the coal criterion was introduced – that they were sold out of coal companies. This has also been of great importance in addition to the actual importance it had for the oil fund's extracts from companies. Now there are decisions to withdraw from producers that primarily produce crude oil. And then there are other decisions that it says about the company, that all unlisted properties have to be certified for the environment – that is positive, and thus also the opportunity to invest in unlisted renewable energy infrastructure. I fully agree that there is an area where we should proceed with caution. It's not SPU's investment that will trigger these projects, but it's important that you also go in there. Then we have the environmental mandates, which are invested from where we also see that you have a good return. We also have the expectation documents used in the positive governance dialogue that the fund has with the different companies. They have evolved over time in many areas, whether climate, human rights, child labour, taxes and transparency, water management, anti-corruption work and sustainable use of the sea. That is a reason why these have come. From my side, I hope that you will continue to work on the expectation document, among other things. what I know you've had in terms of biodiversity. I also think it is important that, throughout our climate change, we not only think about emissions, but also about nature-based solutions to counter the climate emissions that we see, whether it's taking care of rainforest or other. And I hope that the Ministry of Finance will also consider in the spring fund announcement how the UN's sustainability targets can be included in the work done by the Norwegian Bank and the oil fund. I think it can be an overall approach that will provide the fund a lot, where they can also be leaders internationally. I look forward to the assessment of risk-based pre-filtering. It's also an element that will become a topic in the years to come, and it's important that we get a further investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1235	Thank you to the Committee for a good cooperation. That's how the debate we have today contrasts with the debate we had yesterday, and I think maybe it's also a strength. We are now discussing how to manage sums that are so large that I have to admit that I have a problem speaking. I also think there have been a lot of people who, to this day, have pointed out how important it is that we can get together a lot of that. It is therefore appropriate to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and, in particular, to thank the President-in-Office for having managed it in a good way. This message here - or wait a minute, let me link a reflection to one of the previous speakers, who started with a quote, because the representative Schlagsvold Vedum said it was good to have 'pægeng på bok'. I was sitting there thinking a little bit about it, because the point of how we manage the money, and the point of a lot of unity that lies here today, is not just that it's fun to have the money on book, but it's also important how we manage the money we've saved. I think one of the simpler quotations that explains something we're trying to do is from Francis Bacon. He has said that money is like crap, they do good for themselves if one spreads them. I think that is also a bit correct with some of the grips the Storting should actually consider joining, as the Ministry of Finance and the administrators of the State pension fund have put up now, when we make sure that we also change the reference indices somewhat, so that some of the funds, where one today has a greater emphasis on the reference index in Europe, are moving to America. The same also applies to State pension funds abroad when assessing withdrawals, and this is something you will work on in the future. A lot of the backstop to the setting today is about the ethics selection having delivered the setting saying, and that we have got NOW 2020: 7, Values and responsibilities – the ethical framework of the State pension fund abroad. This has come and has been listening. The government announces that they intend to present their evaluations of the proposal from the spring fund selection. It has still been the case that, when the committee had spoken, there were many good impressions there that were in expectation of what should be assessed on the basis of the ethics committee's proposals for changes. I look forward to getting the Ministry of Finance's assessments there. I think we have a good attitude ahead of us. The case-speaker has done well for the grips of which a joint committee asks for assessments and points forward. Now it's like we have this fund announcement debate at a slightly different time than we tend to have it. Usually it's in the spring. I think we'll have to prepare for a slightly longer debate when the next fund announcement comes. There are expectations that several of the grips that are now asking for evaluations will be fulfilled, and that we can better get a part of the ethical framework around how we manage these large sums.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1249	The State pension fund is owned by the Norwegian people. The fund contributes to the benefit of our common pension assets, both today's and future generations. This year we have really seen the value of the fund – and the value of having used less than 3 pst in good times. of it. We have, within the framework of the action rule, been able to use the fund to secure jobs and to ensure that health services and municipalities have sufficient capacity to handle the pandemic – without jeopardising other important services they provide to people across the country. Few other countries fail to have such a room for action. The management of State pension funds must therefore be good and long-term. The annual fund notifications contribute to transparency and debate and to confidence in the way our common savings money is managed. Last year, the market value of the State pension fund went abroad for the first time 10 000 billion. kr. However, the experience of 2020 shows that we need to be prepared for significant turmoil in financial markets and fluctuations in the value of the fund. The Committee's presentation shows broad support for the strategy and framework for the Fund. I'm glad. In particular, the broad political consensus on the financial objectives of the Fund is important. Other objectives may weaken the fund’s ability to finance well-being both today and in the future. The investment strategy for the State pension fund has evolved over time. It is based on knowledge, thorough assessments and practical experience. In this year’s notification, some changes were made to the State pension fund abroad. In order to better represent the value creation of listed companies, Europe’s share in the fund’s stock index is adjusted slightly, while North America is increasing accordingly. Climate change will affect the global economy in the future. Knowledge of how investors should deal with climate risk is constantly evolving. The Bank of Norway must therefore continue to strengthen its work in this area. The work on climate risk is something we will come back to in the fund announcement to spring. The requirement for an intention to exchange listing in the case of investments in non-listed companies is continued. At the same time, we strengthen the regulation of the mandate of such investments. The Social Security Fund has advised on changes in the mandate of the State pension fund Norway because its holdings in Norwegian companies have become large over time. We believe that this challenge should be addressed by withdrawals from the State pension fund Norway. The government will continue to work on the design of such a withdrawal and return to the Storting. Within the financial objective, the State pension fund shall be managed responsibly. Through dialogue and voting, we promote long-term value creation and sustainability in the companies where the fund is invested. In addition, we have ethical guidelines, for which there is a great deal of attention. At the same time, there is a broad consensus that exclusion should be limited to the most serious breaches of standards. Since the introduction of the ethical guidelines, the fund has grown and the world has changed. In 2019, the government therefore set up a sample to review the guidelines. The government will come back with its assessments in this case in the fund announcement to spring. The Ethics Committee’s investigation, the hearing recordings and also the recordings from the Size option will be included in the further evaluation. Finally, the annual fund notifications discuss the management of our common savings. Several governments have contributed to the design of the fund strategy. We're going to build on this. Transparency and broad anchoring are important for us to be able to stick to the long-term investment strategy, even in times of unrest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1279	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1284	The Minister of Finance found in the communication the basis for writing that the framework for the environmental-related mandates for unlisted infrastructure is not designed with the intention of providing guidance for the fund to but can. Does he understand that it can be seen as a kind of rematch – because this wasn't what the department was most excited about when the Stortinget left the leaders?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1289	The enthusiasm in the department is not known to me, because I was not a finance minister at the time. But it is clear that in many of these questions there are discussions between government and big business, between the parties in the Storting, in different professional environments and also in the organisational life. I think that's good. I think it is a strength that we have an open debate and discussion around the administration and what the framework it should be. But when you've used the phrase "can", at least I don't understand it as a rematch, and it's not meant that, at least not by my side or by the government. This is a framework and will help them to invest, and Norway’s Bank has now been clear that it builds on this competence and that it is gradually approaching this market. There are a lot of players in it. I feel confident that Norway’s Bank and NBIM will follow this up in a reliable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1296	I would like to thank the Council of State for its contributions. This may be because my head is a little tired after yesterday, and that I missed something, but I was unable to hear that the Council of State came into the subject of pre-filtering. The Committee explicitly asks in its opinion that the Ministry should consider risk-based pre-filtering as an instrument for entering into differing standards markets and where sufficient information on companies is difficult to obtain. This has also been recommended by a fairly wide and representative sample of hearing bodies. We had several of them at the hearing in the committee, but also at the hearing of the ethics committee, there were consultation opinions that recommended it, from LO and Red Cross to KLP. This is the great interest around, and I would like to hear the Council's assessments and thoughts around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1303	I don't think the representative missed anything related to this issue in concrete terms, because I didn't comment on it directly. It is related to the fact that this is not a problem that has been discussed/assessed in the current fund message. But I made an indirect comment by saying that the ethics committee's investigation, the hearing opinions and the attitude of the Storting will be a contribution to our further assessments. I think that such pre-filtering will have some problematic aspects, and that it may also create some kind of false security, even though I understand very well the idea behind it, and therefore, of course, the Ministry of Finance will consider this question carefully and come back to Stortinget, as the Committee wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1310	I think that's positive, and I think it's actually important to be clear that there's no simple solution that makes it impossible to follow closely the companies you've invested in, and monitor the portfolio there. There will still be a need for that. But it can be – at least based on the experience of other investors, including institutional ones – an important contribution to ensuring a portfolio that is more in line with what we would consider ethical standards. The reason why I'm still concerned with the follow-up of it by the Ministry is that the sample that looked at the Ethics Council and the ethical guidelines here, in many ways left it out and haven't recommended it. That's why I think it's important that the department comes back to Stortinget with an independent assessment of it, which the committee also asks for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1317	There are many challenges to entering emerging markets. We're busy with openness. We're occupied with the institutional. So there are many issues here that we have to consider in the further follow-up work, and then of course we will also follow up what the committee writes in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1322	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1329	Just a few comments on what has been going on in the debate. Firstly, I would like to stress the importance of a broad consensus. It's valuable because it gives stability. When the representative, Mr Stokkebø, says that the fund must not be a political tool, it can become a debate on words very quickly. It's so popular to emphasize that you have to be able to have two thoughts in your head at once. It is agreed that the objective is to maximise the yield. But when we have ethical standards for how to manage it, for example. focus on taxes etc., it also has the political – what we should call it – if not the objective, so at least the effect, that we should be a model for responsible management. We can say that is based on two elements. One is the ethical fact that Norway should behave properly in this world. But there's also a risk. For unethical management, there is greater risk, and then we are back to the goal – maximum returns. Once we've drawn ourselves out of some product criteria – someone uses the term 'we're not going to make money on it', I'm going to use the term 'we're not going to be involved in financing tobacco or certain types of weapons' – it's both about an ethical dimension and about a risk. We don't think the values are there in the future. And as the representative Kaski stressed, the fund is one of the largest footprints Norway puts around the world. There was quite a big wedding in the United States when the fund pulled out of Walmart, for example. I really enjoy traveling around with the EFTA Committee. In Korea, for example, we visited the large yard there and I could tell the city's rapporteur that I was happy to come and look at that yard, for we own 1.5 pst. i. It's valuable to us. And not least, it's funny to plague the Swedes that we own such a large proportion of the large Swiss locomotives. So to the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, who wants to take the administration home to Norway. The Fund needs research, etc. to share and disseminate knowledge and to participate in and build the financial industry in Norway. But as the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, is concerned about other aspects, it's important to be close to people. The fund must be close to the markets. We don't get insight into markets far away by sitting on the pole. We have to keep that balance with us. Otherwise, I think we'll continue to manage this in a unified and good way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1344	The Fund shall not be a political tool, but it nevertheless has great political and societal significance. It shall have the highest yield within acceptable risk. It should be responsible and long-term, but it may well be that in the future it should be assessed whether it should be more sustainable and long-term. I take the floor again to comment on an area, and it is – as the Minister of Finance says – that there are some changes in the fund index. We agree. This will make developed markets in Europe slightly downgrade, in North America similarly. Then you don't change the relationship with emerging markets. The emerging markets have increased, from 6 in 2000 to 23 today, and the next fund notification will also assess emerging markets, including: Saudi Arabia and Romania. It's important. From that reference index, the Governing Council has previously chosen not to enter one emerging market, namely Pakistan, and we are looking forward to an assessment for Saudi Arabia. The reason why I take the floor again is that we have one developed market in Asia where there have been major changes in the last year, namely Hong Kong, where China has broken the 1984 British-Chinese agreement. It is no longer possible to talk about one country, two systems. Freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, all the freedoms previously guaranteed in Hong Kong are no longer there. Then I agree that political decisions or assessments should not be made based on the areas to be considered as developed markets, but at the same time I expect an assessment to be made of how these historical changes, overcoming the freedoms that people in Hong Kong have had, affect the other criteria on which it can still be assessed as a developed market. This is not a turn, it is a great historical shift with fundamental attacks on the rights of people in Hong Kong. It violates the agreements previously concluded by China and must at least be followed up with an assessment of the possible consequences in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1358	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1375	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1382	The Labour Party believes that Norway has a separate responsibility to take care of predators in Norwegian nature and is committed to ensuring viable predatory strains in Norway, in line with the agreed stock targets of Stortinget, regional management, the Natural Diversity Act and our international obligations. The Storting has set targets for the predator species bear, gloupe, yerv, wolf and king eagle. The Labour Party will contribute to the management of a two-fold objective for Norwegian predatory policies, where one can ensure the sustainable management of all the major predatory wildlife species in Norwegian nature while at the same time preserving the use of outlanding areas by agricultural and domestic interests, as well as ensuring the rapid and effective extraction of predators that become particularly close to the population and population, in accordance with the Nature Diversity Act, and where the quality of human life is affected. There shall be a low threshold for the take-off of wild game in pasture priority areas and there shall be a high threshold for the take-off in predatory game priority areas. We're going to have a clear zone management and an effective regime for the extraction of predatory game when it doesn't threaten the survival of the population. Figures from Rovdata show that a significant number of wolves, gloats, yorks and bears are taken out through damage traps, hijackings and license hunts. The King’s Eagle is a protected species in Norway, but under Section 12 of the Roofing Game Regulation, the State may take a decision on injury. For the Workers' Party, it was important to adopt a strengthening of the Nature Diversity Act § 18, which makes it clear that regional policy considerations are to be given significant importance when harvesting wild game when the stock target is reached and it does not conflict with our international obligations. The stock targets achieved shall be taken into account in the assessment of the take-off of wild game. The Labour Party is under the current predatory policy and the frameworks set out by the adopted predatory game agreements, which are based on the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. We have a proposal from the Central Party for consideration today. Now I see that there is a quite such a change from the proposal that was submitted last Thursday to what is being discussed today. However, the Labour Party has made its own proposals in two points, where we also have a slight change. As regards the proposal submitted, an urgent procedure was requested. The Labour Party has supported this. The original proposal also included: to an individual-level administration. It's the Workers' Party, and we're very pleased that the Centre Party has taken out of it now the amended, redeployed proposal. The Labour Party believes we need clear zone management. We believe that when we have defined limits for the wolf zone, it is primarily within the management of the stock. We have also said, through the change in the Nature Diversity Act, that we do not initially regard the wolf zone as a reserve. Once you have achieved the goals you have, there is also the possibility in special cases to extract wolves within the zone. But what we're opposed to is adding up to fixed buffer zones. We are opposed to the exclusion of large areas outside the defined wolf zone for wolf traps in the licence trap. We also believe that legislation has the possibility of using it in time-limited areas, but at the same time we believe that other measures should be considered first. In this particular case, we are totally opposed to restrictions being imposed that way for hunting outside the wolf zone. On the contrary, we believe from the Labour Party that we should also consider other options, such as: moving those individuals, if that's the way they're important, so you get them within the zone. With that, I address the proposals of the Workers' Party – with the change that will have been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1399	The representative of Runar Seestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1404	Calling wolf, wolf has become an annual phenomenon from the Senter party before Christmas. It's like it's not gonna be Christmas without it. Then we sat in the Energy and Environment Committee last week and then November ebbs out, without the annual wolf proposal, and we started getting a little worried. Perhaps it was because this year the predators have been allowed to shoot all the animals they asked for outside the wolf zone in the license hunt, was it no longer to make any conflict? Or was it that the Center Party had simply slept a little per hour? But fear was unfounded. It's Christmas this year too, because the Center Party has found a wolf no one has asked to shoot, and asks us at Stortinget to shoot it anyway. What's new, however, is that the proposers don't just want us to treat an individual wolf in the Storting, which no one has asked us to take out. They will also overrun the Committee and have a regular examination of the matter, long before any urgency arises. Why? Well, it's because you're trying to find new ways to make the most noise on. It's obvious to most people in this case. Actually, it's quite a shame, because even if the Senterpartiet serves on this, it doesn't benefit those who live with wolves around them, nor the traders who lose on a little serious handling of predatory goods. It creates more conflict. So in this case, the Central Party asks Stortinget to overrun local democracy. We should not just refuse to listen to what the predators ask us locally. We're also going to intervene and do something they don't ask for at all – all in order to create a conflict that benefits their own party. I think that's sad, and frankly, not a little irresponsible. Having said that, I think it is important that we listen to those who actually have the shoes in their locals, listen to and take seriously the promises of the predators. The Council of State has also done so. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry agreed on this matter. So when the denominators also ask us to consider moving the wolf, we should actually evaluate it. But when this Christmas present from the Central Party causes us to still debate the wolf, where the wolf zone will go and not, I want to be very clear: it's totally inappropriate for the Right to expand the wolf zone. We're stuck at the predatory settlement. We are firmly committed to the agreement on the 2015 report on the wolf zone, where a national wolf zone was established in line with the decisions we made in this room at the time. We're not going to "snick extension", as the Center Party so voiced and anti-conflict talks about it, the wolf zone. I would also like to be equally clear that the government has to work to keep the stock targets in the predatory settlement. A responsible predator policy means taking into account both the predators and those who live and work in predatory areas. In particular, it is important that the stock of predators is kept at the level agreed in the predatory settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1432	I wish today's debate were unnecessary, he is unfortunately not. The reason why this is, of course, the situation we now have, is that a wolf that the administration of mine is genetically important, establishes itself in the wolf's son, on the border of grazing priority area. It happens in an area to which the government in 2016 proposed to extend the wolf son, but to which the Stortinget said no. A pairing in this area means not only a temporary stop in the license agreement in a geographically defined area now, but in practice it may result in a multi-annual extension of the limitation of hunting in grazing priority areas. That is why the Progress Party today, with the Center Party in a different proposal from what they originally proposed, is a proposal that actually encourages us to manage the wolf son and grazing priority area in line with the 2016 wolf settlement, because it is about the trustworthiness that the wolf administration must and must have. If over time you are going to be able to have a two-part goal – grazing and the need to take care of our predatory game – then you need to be able to deal with the most difficult issues as well. Then we have to handle them in the best way. I recognize that the freedom that predators have to make these decisions has them today, but we can't let it be established a firm practice to establish in practice a buffer zone on the outside of the wolfessa. It has been clear to the Progress Party for a long time, and it has been central in all our argument both in government and after we went out of government. It is the administration's responsibility to ensure that the wolf policy can have confidence. For this reason, we have made a loose proposal in the form of the Center Party. The second key point is that the situation we're about to end up in, not only can the wolfessona permanently expand through a buffer zone, but he can also endanger the flexibility of the administration to make individual decisions relating to separate valuable wolves even in grazing priority areas. And there's none of us who think it makes sense to put ourselves in danger, nor with today's decision. But we feel that that's exactly what you can achieve, as the practice seems to be with the decisions that so far have been made by the predators. Therefore, the government should consider what other means they can use. In conclusion, it is essentially a plurality, the proposal that the Progress Party and the Central Party make today common, if it was possible to get an overview of what the Labour Party actually means. But the three-four last days they have had seven-eight different positions. It's completely impossible to understand what they want. Today, they have made a new proposal that reminds us – it is said – of what the Centre Party and the Advance Party are making, but they cannot vote for it. What makes them unable to do so? Well, because it actually limits flexibility to establishing a permanent buffer zone on the outside of the wolfsona. If the Labour Party were serious, they would of course have supported that proposal. But they've come up with some possessions that they've changed as late as today. With the same thing being tested in public, it's full blouse on all the lights both internally in the Labour Party and among the inhabitants of and around the Wolfesona, because they're revealed. They had intended to make proposals for decisions that did not mean any change in reality, but gave the impression that they were on the right side. So is the new proposal. I can therefore clarify here and now that if the Labour Party wants to change this with decisions in the Stortinget, they must support the Progress Party and the proposals of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1447	The predatory debate is marked by deep conflicts and fragile compromises, and there are many who have to live with the consequences of what the Center Party believes is a deeply unfair predatory policy, for there are people in predatory areas who have to bear the cost of national decisions to have large predatory populations. We have a stock target for wolves that are overfilled. It leads to a very high level of conflict. As a result, respect for the administration and government’s management of the predatory game settlement is severely weakened, and confidence is at a very low level in predatory areas. Today, fortunately, the Stortinge treats a proposal from the Center Party that is about the management of the wolf, but it is all about respect for the decision of the Stortinge, respect for the rule of the people and the right of people to be seen, heard and listened to. I hear that Westgaard-Halle thinks this is a stunt from the Center Party, but the fact is that for just a little while ago overnight, there was a huge expansion of the wolf zone. It suddenly became 1.4 million thicker to protect a single wolf – and that despite the fact that the predators have repeatedly asked for this wolf to be moved, or that it is granted a penitentiary permit in the Deisjö Revirt. The government itself has chosen not to listen to those requests. The result is that we are now in a situation that has created a new, huge conflict in predatory policy, because predatory settlements are broken by an extension of the zone, which is not anchored in the Stortinget, and people in Rendalen and Stor-Elvdal, where this happens, are literally run over by the government once again. Zone management is controversial. For the Central Party, it is an extremely important principle that it is the Storting, that is, the People's Government, that must set the framework for predator management, because these are political issues. In the case of the Centre Party, it is completely impossible to accept an extension of the wolf zone if it has not been adopted in the Stortinget. The Government must be responsible for the adoption of the framework for predatory policies by the Storing. In that case, the County State, the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg or the Department of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg may not amend the wolf zone without further delay, for that decision shall be taken by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. If the government wants to maintain confidence in the predatory settlement, it must be followed up in a better way. Then it cannot be accepted that there is too much wolf in relation to the stock target. Nor can it be accepted that the wolf zone is expanded at random. The expansion of the wolf zone northwards has been feared for a long time. There's something the Storting has said no to, as previous speakers have been about, and there have been great losses of animals in grazing priority areas to the wolf near the zone in the areas where we are now discussing the removal of the new buffer zone. If we accept that the wolf zone can be extended without treatment in the Stortinget, we accept that the ministry and the administration are given powers to restrict the action space of predators, and to press the wolf administration in a direction that is about protecting more wolves – without being politically anchored. Licence fall outside the wolf zone is in progress. It started on Tuesday. But now it's not allowed to hunt in an area where not only this Elgang wolf, but also several other wolves are located. That is why the matter has to be dealt with urgently, and that is why we are now standing here. The centre party is very pleased that Stortinget has taken the matter seriously and provided support for urgent treatment. We wanted to come up with a joint proposal that both the Labour Party and the Progress Party could be in favour and that a majority could vote in favour. That is why we are now choosing to replace the original proposals we had with proposal No. 3, which I present on behalf of the Center Party and the Advance Party. And with the Workers' Party's statements in the media, I hope that we will receive their support to give the government a clear and clear instruction on this matter. We need a crystal clear decision to stop any expansion of the wolf zone and that it must take place from 15 December. It should also be possible for the Workers' Party to be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1470	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1475	This is a sad proposal, which has great consequences, much greater than the majority in this Chamber is aware of. I especially ask the Workers' Party to listen carefully when I'm going to say what I'm going to say right now. Having a buffer around the wolfessa is nothing new. It's been a long time. There has been a common practice in the areas we are talking about here, in order that the parent killer of a flock, mainly within the sona, should not share. Buffersona and the transport by helicopter last year also have an important function, namely to take care of an animal that is essential for the Scandinavian wolf population. I'll explain. How important is it, this Elgå wolf, V862? The entire Scandinavian population – the entire Scandinavian population – is based on five individuals. That's what we have from breeding material. Five individuals build it on. It's important to get new blood. It is so important that a few years ago, and it is actually a standing decision, the Swedes decided to release wolves from captivity into Swedish populations. So important they thought it was getting new healthy genes into a deformed population. It is not a good policy in Norway to put out wolves, and I agree with that – we should rather not do that. As far as possible, we shall avoid introducing farmed genes into a wild population. But it's indisputable, biologically speaking, that a population has to be much larger to sustain survival if the inbreeding increases. This is nothing to discuss. That's it. So it's a bear service to take out genetically important individuals. Among other things, we must: have several flocks – not all of them here in the room that will like it – for the size of the flock, that is, the coal size, goes down by inbreeding. It's indisputable biological knowledge. But the Swedes have therefore made their decision on ice because we have one written agreement between Norway and Sweden. It was a 2011 State Secretary Agreement. It's right there. It's the only one we have, and it says we're going to take care of genetically important individuals. We also pointed to the Kynna wolf and the Galven wolf, which had fresh blood from Finland/Russia, and the Swedes settled down on it. Then they settled down. The researchers in SKANDULV, who have a world renown, I think the Council of State can confirm that – in North America, they bend in the dust for the knowledge that has come from Scandinavia – believe that it keeps getting one new immigrant every five years. It's going to stop the inbreeding depression. Now we have an immigrant number six since 1983 - an immigrant number six. That's the Elgang wolf. Now, what do the Swedes do if we do something as stupid as what the Center Party is now proposing, and open up for the hunt for the valuable wolf? What do the Swedes do? Could it be that they will again want to try to release wolves in Sweden? It's not impossible. It may be a bear service for those who don't want to have any particular wolf in Scandinavia. The fact that the Center Party is responsible for this kind of administration, we're starting to get used to. But that the Workers' Party is now starting to move in the same direction to meet the district threat from the Center Party, is horrifyingly disappointing. And that the international Labour Party – that is, the International Workers' Party – has so little respect for the agreements we have with Sweden, I think I am sceptical. I have to ask: does Barth Eide, the internationalist, know about this? So to the whole process here: originally, the Senter Party proposed that we should decide in the Norwegian Grand Prix to shoot an individual of a highly threatened nature, that it is a parliamentary task – that is, that the Storting should decide to shoot one single individual. Think about it coming a moose that makes graze damage to fruit in Lier, where I come from. Is the Storting going to adopt it, too? In addition, this couple now lives in an area where there is no sheep or clean at all, and which is not a grazing priority area. In that case, I ask you to document that this is a grazing priority area after the agreement. It's outside the wolf zone, but is it a grazing priority area? I ask those who have a different opinion to document that. I have to say that this procedure and the proposal that exists are not worthy of an enlightened democratic state, which is to be based on knowledge in its administration. I'll get to some other points later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1503	The representative is welcome to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1508	As an introduction, I will now ask you to take a look at the north-east valley in this pre-Christmas period. The snow makes down, it's deep woods, it's white meadows, it's becoming icy nights. The full moon turns out soon. It's exotic and mythical. Imagine you see a sleigh on your way in that landscape. There you see the representative Emilie Enger Mehl, and next to her is Kevin Costner. We lead the gaze and memory towards «Dances with wolves». That's the kind of rule we're experiencing. Unfortunately, it is not the premiere of «Dances with wolves version after or other» we are witnessing here today; it is a customary seasonal premiere on an increasingly poor version of «At home alone». There is a lack of respect for a predatory settlement, which is not at all a weak compromise, as the representative Emilie Enger Mehl claims. There is a lack of respect for administration. It's disrespectful of the Storting. Is it urgent to shoot this wolf? No, it's hunting for Easter. Have the robbers asked for it? No, they don't. And as the representative Arne Nävra had to say, is it a genetically important wolf? Yes, very important. Does it have anything to say? Yes, there are several of the types we need. It's also important for those who are opponents of the wolf. This concerns the situation to a considerable extent, not to get a multiplication of many individuals based on few genetic wolves. So for a lot of reasons, it's important that we keep on holding on to the looting agreement we have, and the administration that it's also an established practice for, and that we're not still going to challenge on a failed and weak basis to drive this trench war that we're now engaged in. It's unfortunate that we're going through these exercises every December and beyond the winter. It is an important political debate, it is, but I ask that the Central Party respect the fact that the predatory settlement we have is not broken, and it is our joint responsibility to manage it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1524	When we address the President in this Chamber, let the speech go through the President, as it is called, it is usually actually other representatives or parties we are talking to. But today, I'm actually going to start my speech by directing it to the President, or rather, to the Presidentship of the Grand Duchy, who has put up an urgent procedure on this matter. That, good President, I thought I was irresponsible. I cannot see a single argument for that decision. It's given the Storting a bad one, I'll actually say indefensible, the basis of a proposal that has potential major consequences. The period of licensing of the wolf lasts until 31 May. In other words, he does not end when the harvest session of the Stortinget ends, he ends as it approaches the end of the spring session of the Stortinget. What's so urgent that you have to go right to deal with a proposal that, in my view, breaks the rapture agreement and breaks an agreement with Sweden? And as the responsible state council, I don't even get the opportunity to comment on that with Storting, a matter that is not dealt with by the committee, which doesn't have a case spokesman, who doesn't have an attitude. As far as I know, my department has not received the Document 8 proposal. We found it on the Storting's website, so I've read it. I start by saying this because I have a duty to inform Stortinget according to the Constitution. It is important that I can inform the Storting, so that a person has a good professional basis to make decisions. They are of course free to understand themselves, but I have to say that this procedure makes it necessary to comply with that obligation. But for the record, taking care of genetically valuable wolves is a central part of the predatory game settlement. The South Scandinavian wolf tribe is so ingrained that it doesn't get a new gene at even intervals, our stock target is simply too low for the strain to be viable. That's probably also why the predators, not me, have chosen to screen the respective wolf couple we're talking about here, from the license hunt. Now, the Center Party, through the Storting, will override its decision. Yes, they will yet order the killing of a wolf that absolutely nobody has asked to be a field – not the predators, not the county, not the ministry, not even the newspaper nations. Here the Center Party will set aside a local wolf decision, which I have followed to the point and the dot. I don't think I'm responsible. I think it's a violation of the system of work we have between the state powers, and it's a violation of the important rapprochement, which I hoped and believed we were united. Then I would like to stress that the limits of the wolfesona are fixed. Ulvesona is not extended. What the predators have decided is that during this year's search for a license, where I have maintained the decision to trap up to 27 wolves, one shall avoid hunting in the small area bordering on the wolf's son, where a genetically valuable wolf has settled. There was also a corresponding restriction of the licensing area last year on the well-cultivated wolf that then lived in this area, without the Stortinget reacting to it. So why should now react to the fact that the predators have made such a decision, is hard to understand. It is also not easy to understand the consequences of the various proposals submitted. Take, for example: proposal No 2, from the Workers' Party. I read it as if when you get, for example. a fixed re-establishment where the consequence is that a buffer zone is created into a more or less permanent wolf zone, an attempt shall be made to move the wolves present there. At least it's possible to stick to it. But if one thinks that in any case it should be completely impossible to protect, for example. in my view, it would be difficult, not to say impossible, to comply with the predatory agreement. I do not believe that this proposal is supposed to go that far. But if that's the case, then I'll ask the Labour Party representative to confirm it, because here's no setting, there's no prework to stick to, so I have to stick to the proposals. Finally, I would like to remind you that we have a case that is going up in the Supreme Court about a wolf decision that is being taken, about the licensing agreement. In this matter, the State attaches great importance to the fact that in the decision we secure genetically valuable wolves. It's a central element of the decision we're making to take out wolves outside of the wolf's son. Not least those who want to have a low stocking destination for wolves should pay attention to themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1547	The President will draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that the Parliament decides on the treatment and treatment of proposals. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1554	I want to start by saying that now there is none of the proposals we are dealing with, and that comes to voting, which explicitly deals with shooting the particularly valuable wolf that the Council of State referred to in its article. So all the proposals that deal with it have been removed as a voting theme. The Council of State is aware that last year such a buffer zone was established, and then Stortinget did nothing. This year it is suggested to do something about it. That's just the whole point. This will occur annually for many years to come by establishing buffer zones in an area The size actively through the wolf settlement has said no to being part of the wolf son. Then is the question to the Council of State: does the Council of State not see that there is just the replication effect that is now in the process of happening, which is contrary to the 2016 decision, which is at the heart of the challenge of this year's decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1561	I would like to start by saying that the proposal that was put forward and that it was extremely important to be dealt with urgently – and which was correctly agreed by the plenary assembly after the presidential election – is not even being put forward in the Chamber, says something about the real need to deal with it urgently. So to the question from the representative Dale. There's no way that it's a goal to have a situation where a given buffer zone is adjacent to a wolf zone. Now, when we're in a situation where the predators have seen it as necessary to take care of a genetically valuable individual who's turned to it, we have to focus on it. What the predators have done, however, is ask me to see if it is possible to move this couple. It's a call that I'm considering, and we haven't made a decision. Nor has it been given, as the representative suggests, that every year there will be a fixed need to establish a buffer zone. It must look at from year to year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1568	I'm probably some of the government councils that it's not a goal, but now it's a reality. It is a reality that for the second consecutive year, and presumably also for the coming years, based on a fixed establishment, we will have a buffer zone on the outside of the wolfson – in violation of the 2016 collapse decision. Then there's full opportunity, regardless of what decision the Storting will make in this case, to move the wolf about a feeling it's possible, but one can't establish a fixed buffer zone. The question of follow-up is therefore: does not the Council, when it says in its own statement that one is busy managing the wolf settlement, sees this as the core of it – that those who are actually in grazing priority areas can be sure that it will also be managed on the basis of it through a licensing period, especially in view of the fact that the threshold is right to fall in wolf's son?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1575	I want to remind you that this genetically valuable individual has already been moved once, so it's not that we're neither cut off nor refuse to move the wolf if it's seen as necessary. And as I said, there's a call to do it in this case too, and we have an assessment of that. So it's supposed to say that it's not just deciding to move the wolf. It must also be possible in fields for observations, tracking conditions etc. Like I said, there's something you can assess. In that case, it would be one way to solve the situation that has arisen. What I want to warn you about is to establish the clues from Stortinget that under no circumstances in the future can buffer zones be created for, for example. to protect a genetically important individual, a wolf, who is outside the children of migration. If it were to be the meaning of the proposals, and I have to admit that it is possible to read them like this, it is quite another matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1582	When it applies the last time, I made it quite clear in my post that there is another situation. What we're talking about now is the establishment of a buffer zone connected to a wolf zone. Only then will it rise above any doubt. So it's good to know that if a struggle to find the wolf, the Left should vote for our proposal on e.g. GPS-marking all the wolves, so we could control them and manage these situations effectively. There is no selection to do. It's a fact that we've seen that the threshold to fall in wolfesona – all legal judgements warrant it – is right than on the outside. When one then establishes a buffer zone on the outside of the wolfessa, which asks for more or less permanent presence in the light of the fact that a revir has been established, does it not appear that for all those who live, behave and nourish in this area, there appears to be a slicing and actual extension of the wolfessa, contrary to the decision of the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1587	No, I'm not in agreement with the fact that the predators here have decided, is a snitching or extension of the wolfessa. They've identified a buffer zone in connection with this year's hunt. There's nothing new about it. It has been done in different situations before, and as far as I have understood it, Stortinget has not meant that it was wrong before now. That being said, I see, as I was in my first answer, also the problem when one gets a fixed reviralization with a potential for a so-called fixed buffer zone. I see that there is a problem, and that's why I've also received a request and consider a possible move of these wolves. I have no problem seeing that there is something that someone can react to and mine is a problem, but that it is an extension of the wolfessa, it is not. It is the Stortinget that has a mandate to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1594	As far as this genetically important wolf is concerned, as far as I understand, it is a goal for the government to breed and have puppies. If a genetically important wolf has now made so much trouble as we have seen – it has been floated around by helicopter, it has done great damage to grazing animals, and now it has finally settled outside the zone and got its own wolf zone, which has created a lot of conflict – what can we expect of all the puppies that potentially come out of this? If there's no room for one genetically important wolf within the wolf zone because the wolf zone is so full, we can't expect that there's room for the x number of puppies in addition to within the wolf zone. Then they might have to walk further out of the wolf zone, and then we risk getting a huge area that is suddenly being buffered or protected to protect the puppies that must also have important genetics. What is the plan of the Council of State to do with any young people coming out of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1601	Now I don't know what the knowledge agent Enger Mehl has about biology, but a genetically valuable individual doesn't have any value if it doesn't breed. That's, we have to believe, the point. And it's not that it's just the government's goal, as it's said here. It's the Center Party's goal, because it's in the Robbery Agreement that it's important to protect a genetically valuable individual. Unless the Center Party has gone away from it, I'm going to assume that it's the Center Party's goal. It is also stated in the agreement between Norway and Sweden, signed under the Red-Green Government, with the Center Party, that it is important to take care of a genetically valuable individual. If the Center Party has gone away from it, it's another matter, but I've believed it has our political agreement, among other things. to the parties to the robberies agreement. There are many issues in this, as I was in the discussion with the representative Dale, and it may be reasonable to move wolves in such a situation, but if the centre party believes that it is not important to take care of genetically valuable wolves, it is difficult to see that the premises for the predatory game settlement, for that party's part, can still be stuck.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1610	I hope the Council of State can take a new post afterwards and answer my question, which was whether he would expand the wolf zone even more to make room for the young. But I have another question, and that is that we are really dealing with two proposals here – one from the Progress Party and the Central Party, which is that we should abolish the extension of the wolf zone from 15 December. I believe that this cannot be misunderstood. This means that hunting, licensing, must start as from 15 December in the area currently excluded from the licensing agreement. Then the Workers' Party has put forward another proposal, which is to follow immediately the zone management for wolves, etc. I expect the Council of State has read the proposal. The question is: if the Labour Party's proposal were to be adopted, when does the Council believe that licensing will start in the area currently exempted from licensing, given that that proposal will have a majority? And will licensing be in progress on 15 December with the proposal for the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1618	I think we almost have to wait and see what the Greatness actually decides, and what is said in the debate, all the time when there is neither an attitude here nor a Document 8 proposal that takes into account the proposals that are actually being made. So I'm listening good. But, of course, I will comply with all the suggestions that the Stortinget has made. And if the Storting were to decide that one can't have a buffer zone in this area after a given date, we'll have to take the height of it through, for example. trying to move, as we also have to assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1625	It was tempting for me to start this question with an answer to the representative, Enger Mehl, but I will take that in my post afterwards. So, as far as I know, we have one written agreement with the Swedes, and that's the 2011 State Secretary's agreement, which goes on important genetic material and to take care of the wolves who have it. After this proposal was made known and presented — he has had a short period of time — has the Council of State been in contact with the Swedish authorities and, if necessary, will he contact the Swedish authorities in view of the outcome of the vote here, and what consequences will it have for the relationship between Norway and Sweden in relation to the management of wild game?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1632	That's a good question, because the agreement between Norway and Sweden, well to mark from 2012, and which was concluded when the Center Party was in government, says that we should take care of genetically valuable wolves. He doesn't fail to trap them, but he says, for example, if one should fall, one must have considered all other solutions first – contrary to the one proposal contained in the Central Party proposal of Document 8. It is clear that we need to have a good dialogue with Sweden on this, because we are managing a common wolf tribe. What is at the bottom of the whole discussion is quite simply, as the representative himself described well in a previous article, that if a new genetics is not introduced into the wolf trunk of southern Scandinavia at regular intervals, then it simply has to be much larger to be viable. I don't understand that there's a measure of the bulk of the population, and that's probably also because the bulk of the population has repeatedly said that it's important to get new genetics into the wolf trunk at regular intervals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1639	With that, the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1646	As the representative of Seystad said, the Workers' Party has been involved in the adoption of zone management and stock targets for wolves in Norway. On 16 March 2016, the government and the then state council Helgesen presented a proposal for a significant expansion of the wolf zone northwards and into the Rendalen. This deals with the Storting in Innst. 330 S for 2015-2016. On 6 June 2016, the Stortinget took a clear decision, and behind that decision was the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. In Roman decision number one, it was completely unquestionably clarified, by the processing of this map, which area the Storting said no to include in the wolf zone. That's why we now have a case for treatment. It is this area that is now being tried except for the ordinary licensing agreement. So there has been a clear and clear majority in the Stortinget – the national assembly of our democracy – that has decided where the wolf zone should not be extended. These include: that the Stortinget has clear objectives for Sami culture and reindeer management. Because it's a short way from this area north of Rendalen, which is very close to where I live, and over to the Femund, where we have southern Sami settlement in Norway. We've had meetings with several of the Sami families, who in recent years have had problems with wolves because they've come out of the zone and are now considering quitting reindeer operations. Similarly, this is an area of short distance to the Gudbrand valley, where there are many grazing animals, and where the Storting has deliberately decided that we want to have sustainable food production with increased use of pastures, which are both natural and climate friendly. This area was erroneously claimed to be the ‘trouble area’, but the area currently excluded is 1500 km2. Now the most important points of the day are as follows: In this area there are far more animals, so the individual wolf is only in an area that is now likely to be within the zone, while there are all the other animals that can establish flocks and thus press both grazing and southern reindeer in the year that comes and goes on. That is why we have put forward a proposal, which reads: ‘The size requests the Government immediately and by 15 December 2020 at the latest, to follow up a clear zone management of wolves by not allowing areas outside the wolf zone to be exempted from licensing as long as the agreed stocking targets for the stockpiles of the stockpiles of the stockpiles of wolves have been achieved.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1664	Arne Nävra of SV has become the government's leading arms sponsor in this debate. I met with the Swedish government about this release project for which he argued so strongly, with the then state councillor Eskil Erlandsson, who was the rural minister, as it is called in Sweden, and who strongly argued against that project. That project was stopped and put on ice because one animal passporter who was going to feed the wolves was killed in 2012. Therefore, the entire Swedish government put the project on ice – it became very controversial in Sweden as well. It was a tragic event. If we go back to the Robbery Agreement from 31 May 2016, then the then State Council, Vidar Helgesen, allowed us to expand the wolf zone. Fortunately, there was an uprising in the Right Age, for they had one named Gunnar Gundersen on the Stortinget who dared to say so. He dared to break out and oppose Vidar Helgesen and Prime Minister Erna Solberg. Because he had such a free role and dared to be so clear, we were able to create another majority and get a crystal clear decision against expanding the wolf zone. The left was not in that decision, for the left agreed with the Right-State Council Vidar Helgesen. Gunnar Gundersen was otherwise punished for it in the nomination in Hedmark, when Erna Solberg actively entered and supported Toning Rise in the nomination. She thought it was arduous to have a representative who dared to think for herself and stand for local interests, and she set up an interview with Toning Rise to help him forward and get Gundersen out. It's a fact. What is the problem now is that the confidence in wolf management is very low in the areas where there is wolf. And then it's bigger in Oslo, in some thought tanks here, far away where there's actually a problem. It was a big debate in 2016 about where the wolf zone was going, and a crystal clear decision was made that one was against the expansion that the government wanted and that the Left wanted. There is nothing about buffer zones or anything like that in the decisions taken by the Stortinget. The word ‘buffer zone’ does not appear in any of the decisions. But to get around the decision taken by the Stortinget, you'll find new concepts, like the buffer zone – a buffer zone that is maybe two-thirds of Westfold in the area, i.e. a huge area that is now to be a buffer zone, and which is exactly the area where you said no to have wolves in 2016. So, dear co-representatives in the Workers' Party: there's no reason to trust that Sveinung Rotevatn and the government are going to interpret the decision that you're basing on, in the best sense. It is wise to be clear and clear, because the decision in 2016 was crystal clear, but nevertheless it is bypassed by the Left and the Government. So to the Workers' Party: Join and create a safe majority with the Center Party and the Advance Party – us. If you go with the whole bunch, you're going to get a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1681	First of all, I would like to say that it may well be the whole Stortinget that is responsible, but there is a shocking mistreatment of this matter in the Stortinget we are now seeing. It's an attempt at a detailed government management and it's breaking with the robber deal. You don't want to take care of genetically valuable wolves. It violates the agreement with Sweden, it clearly violates the Berne Convention, and it introduces in practice a completely new management of wolves in Norway. It takes place without comitology, and it is done without any questions or input from the department. All areas and all wolves in Norway are assessed and decided upon in the case of licensing, but two decisions are taken. There is one decision taken outside the wolf zone, and it has just been made by the state council, after review, where it has been said that 27 individuals can be shot. Outside the wolf zone, this is largely to take away what is a wolf that walks around. A decision shall then be made on the possible licensing within the wolf zone, and within the wolf zone both pairs and flocks that are more than 50 pst are counted. within the wolf zone. In order to ensure that they are not fired into the second licensing agreement, it is necessary to establish temporary buffer zones. It's done every year when it's necessary, and with genetically important wolves, we even make buffer zones around them as they move, as was done last year with this wolf. Now, what you're adding is you're going to set a permanent line where the wolf zone is. Outside it, even if they are animals from family groups moving within their territory — some inside and a smaller part outside — it is necessary to be able to fire individual individuals out of those flocks. It is completely reprehensible in animal ethics and undermines the entire sound administration we have of wolves in Norway. We have a system that works. Decisions are taken on licensing outside the wolf zone – that is, striped animals – as well as on own decisions on whether there are flocks with the largest share outside. Wolves in Julussa and Osdalen were taken away with such a decision. A decision is also taken within the wolf zone. This system works, and that's what we need to keep.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1692	Instead, the representative Kjenseth took us on a winter trip to Østerdalen’s snowy meadows, where the mercury sinks in degrees. Let's go for a few months, also to the Baltic Valley, on the green soils and on the small branches of the seats with sheep's bells, and with wild rain that's actually in between. It is also the Østerdalen, where one has obtained a livelihood from the resources available. It is also important to bring it, not only when the mercury has sunk low on the eel and the sheep are safely inside the poultry. Norwegian predatory policy is a conflict. This means that those who manage the decisions of the Storting should be extremely careful to challenge the decisions taken. Sometimes, on the other hand, the Storting leaves a large room of interpretation. We cannot say that is the case in this case. Here it looks as if the administration has simply shown a lack of understanding when they choose to challenge the Stortinge's definition of the wolf zone, with so-called buffer zones. For in both 2004 and 2016, Stortinget emphatically stated that there should be no wolf zones in Rendalen and Stor-Elvdal. Then it is no wonder that when the administration chooses to expand the zone without asking the Storting, it arouses sharp reactions. Rendalen and Stor-Elvdal represent both Sami domestic and heavy grazing areas for livestock, and it is not compatible with wolves. To say what the Right said, we'll listen to those who have shoes on. The expansion of the wolf zone we have now seen is a breach of the decisions taken by the Stortinget for the shelter of the wolf in Norway. In this case, there is the consideration of so-called genetically important wolf that is the cause of what I would call an illegitimate extension of the zone. Unfortunately, ‘genetic wolf’ is a concept the administration is constantly using, and it almost seems like one is doing it because it is difficult to argue against. It is no secret that the Central Party would like to have a stronger wolf policy, and that we have been critical of the wolf policy that the majority has stood for. However, we are concerned that the limits of the size actually have to be respected. For it is heavy for locals, grazing and reindeer industries to have to fight for their rights, time and time again, both before Christmas and before summer. Today, the Centre Party and the Advance Party have a proposal that is nothing more than that it invites the Stortinget to actually establish adopted policies by closing the possibility of interpretation and establishing the location of the wolf zone, regardless of whether the wolf is outside or inside, genetic or non-genetically important. The son is the son.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1707	The background to the matter and the proposal we have made is that the wolf zone is now suddenly expanded without political anchoring overnight, and it is only to protect one wolf, the so-called Elgang wolf. So now we have enough of a conflict-making predatory policy, and that's not exactly the first time it happens under this government. It is well known that the Central Party believes that the current predatory policy is unfair, because people in predatory areas have to bear a large cost and burden so that the government does not have the ability to follow up the predatory settlement. This means that respect for the administration and government's management of the predatory settlement is severely weakened. The reality is that the stockpiles of wolves in Norway are over-filled, and this is precisely what leads to major conflicts. The wolf zone is also overfilled, there's simply no room for more wolves there. It is then quite wrong to extend the wolf zone in the way that the government has accepted. If the new protection zone for which the government has now agreed remains, it will result in a large expansion of the wolf zone. In addition to this wolf, several other wolves have been observed in this area, which are now also exempted from the licence hunt. This could potentially mean more new couples in pasture-priority areas in the next few years – and in an area a broad majority on the Stortinget have said that it should not be wolf in. The centre party considers that any temporary or permanent extension of the wolf zone is contrary to the predatory settlement. It is overcoming the local population and is extremely conflict-making. The fact that the government chooses not to follow the predatory settlement, does not follow the two-part objective and, in general, does not follow up the decision of the Great Britain, is more than predators. It is basically about people's trust in the authorities when the state changes the rules of the game along the way, when the state exercises power without democratically anchored justification – then the confidence of those who govern the country is weakened. The predators have tried several times to get this wolf moved or fielded, but the department has not even responded to the enquiry. The central party now trying to create a majority in this matter is that this new protection zone is to be repealed as from 15 December. I would encourage the Workers' Party to take part in a clear decision that instructs the government, because there is a need in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1718	The representative Borch says that there is one wolf that creates conflict again – no, there is one party that creates this conflict, I will not mention the name of that party. I think we should distinguish between two groups here in the hall, that's between those who don't want to have wolves in Norwegian nature, and then there's the others, the majority. If you want to have the critically threatened species called wolf, in Norwegian nature, we have to do something, we have to have a decision, we have to set a framework to get it done. One of the conditions for having a viable population, or for having a fairly healthy genetic population, is that there's going to be new blood, otherwise it won't be. This means that immigrants must come across the Gulf of Bothnia from Finland/Russia. The only way we can get natural immigration is from around the Gulf of Bothnia. It's a bit of an exercise for a wolf to go around there and come down and hit the blink at 5 pst. of Norway’s land area, where there is a wolf zone — it will hit the 5 % before being shot on the road. Three out of four are shot on the way to the 5%. This is the bingo that needs to be taken to do this. So we've got the number six that's done this. It has come to Norway in Norwegian custody and in Norwegian administration, and what are we offering it? This is the draft document 8, which was then dealt with urgently. When we first get a revir, a flock, a parent killer with puppies, they stay there; there's no one who's better guardians of it reverent than the parent killer and the flock sail. This is pure and intersect biology, they guard the area better than the SNO can ever do. There won't be any more wolves yours – it's the fasit, it's the biology. So I should also answer a little bit of the question that the representative Enger Mehl addressed to the Council of State – it doesn't matter who she addressed it to: What happens to the puppies from that territory, if any? We have numbers on it. The last 20 years, or until 2017, it was counted. Listen carefully after this: Of 40 wolves who were shot in a license or indemnification, who were killed because they did Uganda, 39 were born in Sweden. One wolf was born in Norway. That means, and I've said that many times here from the pulpit, it's the Swedish parliament that decides the loss of sheep to the wolf, it's not the Stortinget. But at least we have to do our utmost to keep a viable population. That means it's pretty pointless to move this wolf. I think it's going to establish itself there, that's the perfect area for wolves. It's not sheep there, it's not clean there. That's all I can say right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1732	There are many different opinions about zone management, but the majority of the Grand Duchy has adopted zone management, and at least one that can be expected is respect for the zone. This did not start with games and specks from the Center Party, it started with a sniper extension of the zone. Should there be a change in the wolf zone, it shall be adopted by the Stortinget. It's not about a little spot that's now exempt from the license hunt, it's about 1.4 million dekars. Not only the Elgang wolf lives in this area, but also all the other wolves in this area are at peace. In the articles of the Council of State, I have to say that it mildly started a little special. When a Council of State starts the speech from the pulpit with the punishment of the President of the Grand Duchy, the punishment of the presidency and the punishment of the decision of the Grand Duchy to get an emergency treatment, I would recommend the Council of State to read up on the government's relationship with the Grand Duchy. It was mildly said lack of respect. Then the council follows up on refusing to answer the Central Party's questions in the lines. In a parliamentary way, he suggests that the Central Party is terribly heavy on it. No, the Central Party realizes that when we're going to keep a genetically important wolf to avoid inbreeding, it's for it to breed. That's exactly why we're asking what happens when this wolf breedes. What happens when it gets -- let's say -- eight puppies? Are the eight puppies also genetically important? Will it mean that the eight puppies will establish themselves within the wolf zone, where there is no room for the Elgang wolf? If they then establish themselves in the buffer zone or in the periphery of the grazing area, or in the grazing area, should they have a new buffer zone around them? And what in the world will this look like after a few generations? That's what the Central Party asked for, and the Council of State couldn't answer. I hope he can do that in the next article. Another important point is that this is close to Sami domestic operations. Norway has committed itself internationally through the ratification of ILO Convention No. 169 to take care of the Sami domestic practices, and the Sametinge has clearly stated that predatory pressure is the biggest challenge for us to be able to care for Sami culture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1743	Unlike the previous representative, I cannot help but be very provoked by the fact that the Council of State feels the need to inform the Storting in a matter that we urgently deal with. That's what I thought we should be so fussy, even in a matter like this, that we give room for. It's all wrong how we're set up to deal with these kinds of things. That being said, I thought that both the Council of State and other representatives are going well. For example, the representative says that it is not possible to handle animals on a strip. Well, the wording of these proposals is about an extension of the wolf son. It is quite clear what this is about, so you don't have to try to drag it into something it doesn't. If the arguments had been good enough to stop this, it would have been a different matter, but what we are saying now is that the attempt that is now taking place, which will take place year after year, to move the wolf son out, in violation of the 2016 decision, in violation of the recommendations of the Left in 2016, if one will, we do not accept – clean and straightforward. What's the big problem after following this debate for an hour is that because the Labour Party now gives the impression that they're going to be stuck in the fish, but boils around with some suggestions for themselves that are changed almost hour by hour, we're at risk of standing without multiple numbers for anything – because the Labour Party is boiling around in the cabbage. That's what's the main problem in the situation we're in right now -- it's about the long-term trust and respect for the two-part goal. The party of progress acknowledges that through the wolf settlement we have a special responsibility to preserve some special predators with particularly important genetic material. We recognize it. Policies are adapted to the wolf settlement, just as there is no buffer zone on the outside of the wolf's son in the wolf settlement. Our point is, of course, completely clear: if the government is to expect the majority to stick to the wolf settlement in one and the same way, the government must also make sure that the administration sticks to the wolf settlement in one and the same way. It's not harder, it's no more complicated -- there's no other hidden agendas -- than the fact that when the Storting is at its rendezvous, the government has to make sure we implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1754	I have not punished anything at all, but at the beginning of my speech I found reason to criticise both the presidency, which has ceased, and the Stortinget, who has decided to deal with an urgent matter that no one in the course of the debate has been able to justify. The reason I do that is that I have an obligation to inform Stortinget. So the Storting will make a decision, but I have to try to facilitate a good treatment. It is demanding for me when the proposals are first made on the day of a debate and there is no setting to stick to or we have had the opportunity to say something about this. That's why. So I also think that the debate has just shown the need for proper treatment, because here it is simply said very much wrong. The representative Emilie Enger Mehl says that the denominators have asked for the killing of the wolf couple in question. That's wrong. The representative Sandtrøen says there's a lot of wolves in the area. As far as I've managed to get knowledge of, maybe a wolf was observed there this summer. There are no confirmed observations of the wolf in that area. The representative Myhrvold says that this with a «genetically important wolf» is some kind of change that I, or the government, have invented. But this is the case in both the predatory game agreement, in the wolfeinheita and in the unity with Sweden. And the Center Party has our share in everything. So I'm going to have to think about it, it's a little bit hard to understand. The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, says that the confidence in the wolf administration is low, and that there is apparently some thought tank in Oslo that has invented this. The decision we're talking about is made by the local predators. He says it's me, Councillor Rotevatn, who drives and overruns the robberies deal at Stortinget. If you want to name a first name here, you might want to name some other names, for example: Stein Tronsmoen, Mari Gestvang, Dagfinn Sundsbø. I would like to believe that there are names that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, recognize, because they are members of the Central Party, and they are in the predators who have made this decision. We may disagree whether that decision is wise or not, but we should not give the impression that this is something that I or the government or the Ministry of Climate and Environment have decided. These are the predators who have decided. And it was actually not a single complaint to the decision that was grounded in that buffer zone. The only complaint that came was from environmental organisations. So that there has now been a major conflict around it, is not quite easy to understand – when the decision has been made and anchored locally and no one has complained about it. There has been no conflict around it until the Center Party chooses to create a conflict around it in the Storting. It is not good for the trust in Norwegian wild game management, and I would like to say that it is also unwise in view of the trust in the local administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1767	It is as the Council of State says: there was no conflict on this issue until it was brought up here in the Central Party and now by the Progress Party. We have the decisions of predators, we have a complaint handling process for what is a licensing agreement outside the wolf zone, and we have a new process for what is within the wolf zone. That's the way it should be. We also have an international responsibility to take care of genetically important wolves – take care of this strain and its nature, so that it does not have the inbredness it has today. It's through an agreement with Sweden – we follow it up – and it's through the commitment we have under the Berne Convention. As far as biological matters are concerned, I think that the representative Arne Nävra has described it in a very good way. The proposal from the Centre Party and the Advance Party is doing a lot more. It changes the entire administrative principle, not by extending the wolf zone – it is exactly where it is, no one has suggested extending it – but because there are always some flocks that are both inside and outside. Then you have to have administrative clarity about that. Those inside shall be assessed according to what is inside the wolf zone, and then one must have a buffer zone, so that they are not displaced by a fall in licence outside the wolf zone. If you go along with the practice that the Center Party and the Advance Party now want, it's completely ethically reprehensible. In this way, a practice where you can stand at the border of the wolf zone and almost shoot individual individuals from flocks – established flocks – partly in fillets, while the principle we follow is that if there is a fall in the wolf zone, the flocks are taken for flocks, which are animal ethically correct. This proposal is wrong because it attacks what we really need: genetically important wolf. This sixth wolf, which can be part of the foundation we have for the southern Scandinavian wolf tribe, we have to take care of. The second is that it changes the whole practice of how we manage flocks that are in the border area of the wolf zone – inside and outside. I do not envy those who will try to argue for the state's view of the Supreme Court if this gets a majority here. Then the whole basis for the case – through the argument from the state – falls straight to the ground, and it is the Stortinge that provides it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1782	This stunt, as the Center Party itself calls it, is quite strange. The representative, Mr. Enger Mehl, is standing here on the speaker's chair and talking about how much confidence it is that the robbers are being run over, in a matter where the centre party proposes to roll over the robbers' names. That's what the proposal is about, that's what we're discussing here today, that the Central Party will overrun them locally. It's not the government's Central Party attacking here, although I see the Center Party trying to sell this in by saying that you in government don't do yours and don't do it – it's not the government that's being attacked here, it's local democracy. The Central Party is attacking local democracy with its proposals. They attack the predators, and they attack the local desires. The representative Battle Violence Vedum is doing a pretty creative story from the pulpit here today, with the characterization of political opponents and insinuations he does not under any circumstances have coverage for, almost without talking about that matter in fact. It really is quite significant both for this debate and for most debates the Central Party promises a day, especially about predators. The central party is attacking the government. The government has not proposed what they are attacking them for. It creates both a reality picture and a conflict that does not really exist. Why does the Central Party choose to call the predators in regions 4 and 5 for the administration of this debate? We who sit in the hall here, understand that. It's because it's easier to defend that you're overrun by government than you're overrun by predators. Listening to the robbers only when they agree with the Center Party is a way to pursue politics that we have seen for four years in a much larger country a little further west of us. Fortunately, it is now on 20 January. It is disrespectful, it undermines democracy, and it increases the conflict again. I have not heard one representative in the Chamber here today speak to extend the wolf zone. Nevertheless, we are debating it. Nevertheless, to create conflict, the Center Party has an enemy that does not exist. I must admit that I do not agree with the Progress Party in this matter, but at least the Progress Party manages to deal with both the matter and the truth, which I believe is absolutely crucial to finding solutions and dampening conflicts in predatory matters. The son should not be extended, but we must listen to the predators, we must ensure the predators, we must ensure those who live in the wolf zone, and we must ensure grazing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1797	The representative Dale had a calm and fine tone in his post, and now I'm going to take a calm and nice review of the map, because that's what's the whole basis for the matter we're dealing with. [[The representative here holds up a mobile phone and shows a map.]] The representative of Elvesuen thought it was problematic to have a licence agreement until the wolf zone, but it did so even when he was the Council of State. That's what's in fact all along the border of the domestic wolf zone — it's a license trap. So if it was ethically reprehensible, the representative himself has contributed to something that sounds very doubtful. The reason why the former Elvesu State Council did so and had a license agreement along the border for miles is that that is what is the main rule, because the Stortinget has adopted a clear zone management. If we go back to the map, Westgaard-Halle's representative asked about the real content of the case, and it's 1500 km 2 that is exempt from the ordinary licensing agreement. That's what we're dealing with today. It's such a large area that it represents up to 67 pst. by Vestfold, from which the representative Westgaard-Halle has been elected. So it goes without saying that these are quite large areas, which have significant consequences for both southern Sami settlement and other grazing in a large area also outside this field if we get flocks establishing and using new, larger areas. That is also the reason why we in the Workers' Party have made such a clear proposal, which says that we need to get a licence “immediate” in Rendalen. That is the content of the proposal: it must be «immediate» and with effect from 15 December at the latest. It is a proposal that can be easily understood in Norwegian – ‘immediately’, according to the dictionary, means immediately, immediately or immediately. And it has emerged from the Council of State that he will follow up the decisions made by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1811	The President will stress that it is not allowed to bring with it any maps or other effects on the pulpit. We don't run with power points in the staging room. Notice must be given immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1816	I note that those who are in favour of not supporting the proposal are, first of all, two government councillors from the Left, who have done everything they can to train for hunting wolf – former state councillor Ola Elvestuen and current state councillor Sveinung Rotevatn. Rotevatn does not spend so much time discussing the content of the proposal; he discusses most of how Stortinget has chosen to deal with the proposal, which he should respect for the fact that the Stortinget itself can decide in plenary. There is a reason why there is an opening in the Rules of Procedure § 39c to deal with matters urgently. It is precisely when it is urgent to make a change, as it is now, because licensing is already under way, and without it being in line with the predatory game deal, areas are exempt from the licensing agreement. Rotevatn has been specifically challenged on the proposals that lie in the hall, without having been able to comment on them further, because he lacks a position. Here the Council of State does not have a position, but he has solved proposals, which are in the Chamber, he has the document which is a proposal for a representative, he has the debate, and he has to deal with that. So the council also says things that are wrong. He has e.g. said both in meeting with us yesterday and repeated in the hall today that last year there was also a buffer zone around the Elgå wolf, but then no one protested. I told you about yesterday: it's wrong, it was protests. And I'll quote from Nork.no. The headline was: «This wolf stopped the wolf attack before it started». The impression was: ‘This wolf put a stop to the wolfyft in parts of Hedmark before it had started. The hunters rage and want a meeting with the Minister for the Environment on Monday.’ This was no.no on 1 December 2019. There was a discussion about a buffer zone around exactly the same wolf. It has obviously forgotten the councils now, one year later. Then we have another thing -- we can flush up to this year. On 1 December 2020 it will be at No.no, again: ‘When the robbers of Hedmark, Oslo, Akershus and Østfold were to decide in the autumn how many wolves could be shot during the licence hunt, the genetically important wolf theme was therefore. The reason is that it has done great damage to grazing animals outside of the wolfessa, in the Rendalen.’» The surveyers suggested to the Ministry of Climate and Environment that the male wolf and tispa should be moved out of the Deisjøreviret. Also the Inland Left sent an address to its party-tank Environment Minister Sveinung Rotevatn about it. And then it's: ‘There had been an attack on animals in the area. That's why we thought it was necessary to either move it or shoot it." It says the leader of the Inland Left, Sjur Crossland. So my suggestion is that the Council of State starts to take part in the debate on the basis of the material content we're discussing, and listen to its own in the Inland Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1847	It's probably never a year that it's approaching Christmas without us having this kind of debate in this room. That might be okay, because predatory game and predatory game management affect many, it takes a lot, and it's divided opinions. We've also seen that here in the hall today. The fronts are here, the differences of opinion are here, but someone might have a little need to try to make the debate more exciting and real than it is. They're trying to make the differences a little bit bigger than they are. When the representative Dale says that the Workers' Party has submitted a proposal, and that it is a little difficult to understand what we mean, because we change the proposal from hour to hour, I just have to say that the Workers' Party is not necessarily in favour of an urgent procedure. We believe that we should be very careful with that. It shall be the exception and not the rule. When we nevertheless supported urgent treatment in this case, we thought it was right. It's right from the point of view of practice, it's right from the decisions that have been taken in the past, and it's right in terms of the fact that it's about hunting that's already started. However, I react when the representative Dale says that if the Labour Party's proposal is adopted, we will have an unclear and useless decision, but if we adopt the proposal of the Centre Party and the Advance Party, everything becomes much clearer. It's also a little weird, when the last few days have shown that we're being criticized for being very similar, and asking why we haven't coordinated them. The real differences may not be that big. I will not in any way foreshadow how the voting goes on this matter, once we get that far. But I just want to say that when the Workers' Party supports urgent treatment, it is not the urgency that is most important, but that we get proper treatment. We believe we have. We've dealt with this in AU, we've dealt with it in the board, we've dealt with it in the group. When our group at Stortinget finished their treatment on Wednesday, we were also very open about the proposal we put back on. We've made one little change, as it's explained from this pulpit today, otherwise we've been standing on the same proposal all the way. Then the council had a question and wondered whether this means that we will never allow some areas to be exempted from hunting outside the wolf zone in order to preserve genetically important wolves. That doesn't mean, but that means that we have a clear position on this expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1860	There are some repeat buttons in the Right Communication Strategy, and I heard Westgaard-Halle press one of them today: it's the Center Party that creates the conflict. If you don't think it's a real conflict, you haven't been much in areas with wolves and heard the discussion about how to manage wolves. It's a real conflict in people's lives. Therefore, some of the largest demonstrations in Norwegian policy in the last seven years have been large, large wolf markings with thousands of people who have been fleeing from all over Norway. People have taken the turn, people have taken the time off from work, because there is a real conflict in real people's lives. Then they are tried by those who dominate the Right right now, by Westgaard-Halle, and Sveinung Rotevatn, Arne Nävra and others, that this is just a theoretical debate that the Center Party creates to create the conflict. The conflict is there, it is real in the lives of real people. We were accused of the exact same thing in the discussion about Troms and Finnmark, that we were trying to create conflict around it. It wasn't a created conflict. It was a real conflict. People in Finnmark wouldn't be overrun by government and big business. What's the problem in the wolf policy is that those who actually know the problem on the body have been overlooked, overtested and overrun time after time. Then people get angry and frustrated, and some become apathetic as well. When e.g. Red water is trying to reproduce the predatory settlement, the wolf settlement, it's important that there's not one place in that decision that we're particularly concerned about genetically important wolves. That's exactly the opposite. It is also stated in one of the decisions: ‘The government asks the Government to order a new independent investigation into the genetic origin of the wolf tribe in Norway.’ So the big question in the 2016 wolf debate was just: Is it a strange wolf tribe, or is it the reintroduction of a species, the introduction of a alien species? That was the big debate. That is why it is particularly important, because when the State Council of Vidar Helgesen went out as clearly as he did, and wanted to expand the wolf zone, the Stortinget said no on the contrary – with the exception of Left, SV and MDG, who did not want it. But the other parties said, "We don't want to expand the wolf zone." And that's, whether Westgaard-Halle likes it or not, a fact that Gunnar Gundersen got very rough treatment of his own party because he created a political mood that made it possible to get to another majority. It's a fact that Erna Solberg blended directly into the nomination in Hedmark to help bring up Tonning Riise, and we see today that the Right does not take the word at all in the debates on the side that is about seeing people who actually know the problems on the body. It is sad that the right still does not have the kind of voice that Gundersen used to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1876	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1882	When it comes to who has the best communication strategies, I just as much like the Center Party this day. And just when it comes to the discussion about wolves -- yeah, there's a real conflict about wolves. But there are no parties that cultivate that conflict any more and try to make it bigger than the Center Party, who never seek compromises, and where they undermine government rather than underpin what is perhaps the most professional game management in the world, with great respect for decisions in the Storting. I was challenged on one thing – why we have those wolf zones, why we don't have such buffer zones elsewhere. Of course, it's because there are no wolf flocks that are mainly inside and a little outside. If they were elsewhere, we would have to have the same buffer zone there as well. This is a completely standard procedure – nothing in particular this year. We are responsible for two things: we must take care of the genetically important wolf, and we must have the administration we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1889	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1894	I have some points for a summary: It establishes a very valuable wolf in a reef partially inside and partly outside the wolf zone. There's not sheep and pure in that area, and they want to stay in the reveret biologically -- fact. As far as I know, this is not a priority area from the management plan. If I am wrong, I ask that it be informed by those who believe otherwise. Any puppies want 95 pst. the likelihood of not establishing itself westwards or north-westwards in grazing priority areas — that is, research. If they were to do so, both the government – as far as I know them – and the government would take them out. I don't want to accept that they're supposed to be butchers in pastures. We've got to figure that out. We provoke Sweden and the agreement with them. I have never experienced so little knowledge of any matter in the hall. Finally, I would like to mention the vote. SV will vote in favour of proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1923	A great deal of the basis for the matter that we are dealing with here today, and the reason why the centre party asked for urgent treatment, was that we wanted a quick decision to get the field Elgang wolf. So the basis for the case we're dealing with is a desire to outrun the predators in regions 4 and 5. The reason for the case is a request from the Center Party to overrun the robbers and their own members in the two predatory wildlife subjects – Stein Tronsmoen, Mari Gestvang and Dagfinn Sundsbø. There has been a discussion about the predatory wildlife for several years. In those years, I have recorded that the Central Party has always thought that the administration should blindly follow the decisions of the robbers. But when there is a decision that it is not possible to conflict, the Central Party is going to outrun local democracy, pillaging game subjects and its own members. I interpret this positively. I interpret this as a change of vision by the Center Party, and that we should no longer blindly follow the decisions of predators in one and another. Therefore, this could be a hot spot for future debates on predatory wildlife management in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1932	The representative Lene Westgaard-Halle has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1937	Of course, there is a real conflict in the predatory debate, but that is not what this debate is about. This is a constructed conflict; it is not the classic predatory debate. The representative Schlagsvold Vedum runs the same, old rhetorical, slightly worn-out, tricked: he talks about something other than the thing, and then he attacks it – a classic way to run the Center Party policy. For example, the nomination process in other batches is of very little relevance to the wolf debate. Nor is the regional reform in North Norway particularly relevant to the wolf debate. I wonder a little more about what the Central Party thinks about regional reform and Vestfold and Telemark. There's the Senterparteen County rapporteur, so I'm glad to see them ask us to split it up. What I also wonder a little bit about, and I hope someone in the Center Party can answer to me, is, why would the Senter Party overrun the local predators in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1944	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1949	Those who wonder why a precise decision to establish a buffer zone on the outside of the wolfessa today is necessary can only rewind the feed and right of the representative Elvessuen, who in his post actively argues for a buffer zone on the outside of the wolfessa, contrary to the wolf settlement. That's why we're here. So it's drawn in how this affects the verdict that goes for the Supreme Court now. To that end, I would just say that if the judgment of the Supreme Court in the judicial trial of a case which has been before the courts, based on a 2017 decision, is affected by a new decision in the Stortinget in December 2020, then I do not understand anything. Of course, what we're doing now is just to determine how one must understand the wolf settlement, by means of a special decision the administration can base on the afterlife.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1956	The representative Schlagsvold Vedum has learned a series of debates, and there is one of the oldest tricks in the book. It's that when you don't have a good answer to what's being said, you pretend that what's been said was something completely different, and then you argue against it. That's what we call setting up a strawman. In this case, it was said both from me and others. And there has been no conflict around this decision all the time it takes locally, from the predators, and no one has complained about it. It is the representative to right as we say that there is no conflict in wolf policy in general. No one has said that, and I don't think so. Well, at least they're going to be in bad shape. But that was perhaps what it took to have something to say when he came to the pulpit afterwards. I want to make it clear that I do not think the various proposals here are wise, but it is of course that if the Stortinget were to take a decision, I am correcting them. It is difficult to consider them when they do not have a position and therefore an explanation of what is meant, but I would say that the debate has been clarifying, and that it has been said by several representatives what they put in the contents of their proposals. I have noted that, and it is good. For example, there is clearly no one who has intended that there should be a total ban on having a buffer zone if needed, for example. when valuable striped wolves enter. So in both proposals there is a deadline of 15 December, and I just want to make a brief comment on it. If the Storting takes these decisions and wants me to move the wolf with it, I will of course do it all the time. It is also to be assessed, because the authorities have asked for it. But I also want to add that even if we do everything in our power to do it, and even if I control the Meteorological Institute, I don't control the weather. There are also some factors that are important when you're going to be able to find the wolf and move them. But of course, we will follow the temptations of the Stortinget, and try everything in our power to make the wise decisions that the Stortinget always makes. Finally, there's been a constant replay of an extension of the wolfesson here. That's not correct. The size determines the size and spread of the wolf's son. There's no disagreement as far as I've got here. That the denominators from time to time think that there is a need for a buffer zone when you want to have a regular license hunt, the denominators are the ones that determine. Now someone wants to override them, and you have to try to adjust to it, but I would say very clearly that the government here does not suggest that the wolf son should expand. Neither do the denominators. There's actually no one who's said anything about it, other than the Center Party itself. I don't think the Center Party is in favour, and then one doesn't have to argue against it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1967	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1972	The way left and right use the denominators in this game, is very unfair when we know that the reason why the decision on the buffer zone ended up as it did, is that the denominators have asked to move the wolves. It's training the government. They say you have it up to you. So get rid of that assessment and just do it! In questioning the ministry, it has been asked if it is possible to obtain a breeding permit at the Deisjö couple. It's been rejected. Then there is one alternative to action, which is actually pressured by the government. It does not sound like neither Westgaard-Halle nor Rotevatn nor anyone else here has taken the time to pick up a phone, for example. Stein Tronsmoen, who is the leader of the predatory game topic in region 5. You have obviously taken the time to find out what they are called. I would call and ask: is this a proposal contrary to what you think is right? I think you would be given an answer that surprises – that we have support for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1980	The council accused Vedum of answering something quite different than what was asked. Then I will try to repeat my question, which I have not received that I have received any answer to. What happens when the genetically important Elgang wolf has puppies? Will those puppies also be treated as genetically important wolves, where you have to have a buffer zone around wherever they are? If it gets eight puppies, are we going to get eight buffer zones, potentially in grazing priority area, or into grazing priority area, which means that the license hunt can't take place in those areas? So we can imagine the next generation, etc. It's been asked three times now. I cannot understand that there has been any response from the Council of State to that very thing. There are many who claim that this is far from grazing, that it is far from reindeer, and that this wolf is certainly not going to wander into any reindeer area. I think the reason this wolf is called Elgå-wolf is that it's been up in Elgå and torn in pieces clean. Elgån is a Sami grazing area, and there have been many local surveys in the last few years about the increasing predatory pressure both in Elgå and in Riast/Hylling just because of wolves. Fortunately, a wolf was killed in Riast/Hylling pasture last autumn. After that it's getting a little bit better. This is potentially a major challenge for the grazing industries and, in particular, for the Sami reindeer in this area, which is a marginal industry, and which we have a special international responsibility to take care of. I hope the Council of State can confirm that any puppies will not have the same protection as the Elgang wolf has today, and that we will not have eight buffer zones around if we were to have eight puppies that establish themselves, for example. in the furthest zone of the wolf zone. The councils may also reflect a little bit on whether it is now that the wolves that are within the wolf zone are so inbred that there is a great threat to the population. I hope he can confirm that we have to take out what the predators have proposed, and that maybe we should also take out more wolves within the zone, so that there is room for the genetically important Elgang wolf and any offspring from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1989	It's a little demanding for me to treat hypothetical precipices from the pulpit in Stortinget. That's also why I haven't commented on that question so much. Let me still try to suggest some lines about it, as it has been very requested by the representative. If the wolf couple are talking about here, we're going to have pains -- we're going to have hope -- that's the whole point of taking care of the genetically valuable wolf -- we're going to hope that in that case they'll be in the wolf's son. More likely, they want to take the road to Sweden. That's often what happens when they get tired. In any case – and I've also said this before – there's no total ban on killing genetically valuable wolves. It's possible to do it, but it's clearly a higher threshold. That would be a concrete assessment, and one should try, as is stated in the Robbery Agreement, as signed by the Central Party, all other things first, for example. movement. I record that the Center Party has chosen to try nothing else first, but to suggest directly to Stortinget that one should be killed. That they don't see it as a violation of the looting game agreement, I think it's strange, but at least it's not a suggestion they're even up to actually appearing in the hall, despite the fact that they thought it was important to deal with it urgently. That's good. In the last representative, it seems to be an obvious misunderstanding, because here it is suggested that because the wolf trunk is inbred, one more trap is needed. But the reality is – to say the least – the opposite, simply that the more inbreeding the wolf tribe is, the larger that tribe will be in order to be viable. Difor is one in the different predatory game like some that it is important to get genetic variation, so that the strain is not larger than necessary. I don't think the Center Party wants the wolf tribe to be bigger than it needs to be, and then it's strange that they put up a policy that will lead to it. I found it strange that no one has reflected on it during the debate, but one may go home and through the weekend perhaps think a little well over that very point.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e1998	Much of the reason why Stortinget is now dealing with this matter is that the Center Party wants to get permission for the Elgang wolf, which we have heard so much about. That proposal is no longer the centre party, we have heard in the course of the debate. It could have been interesting to know why it is no longer relevant to treat it as if on Tuesday it was urgent to be treated. Is it – and I'm taking the positive angle of incidence again – because the Central Party has also realized that the Storting may not be the right body to treat some wolf individuals through a bulk treatment? I hope so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e2003	Finally, the centre party has tried here to obtain a majority for a proposal that will repeal the buffer zone from 15 December. Then the license hunt will start, and then it will be possible to hunt wolves in that area. Then the state council has to decide if he wants to move this Elgang wolf. I heard the representative Kjeseth talk about both dancing with wolves and beautiful snowstorms in the moonlight, so it seems as if the snow has gone down and that it would be easy to find that wolf and possibly move it. So, when people push the birds of prey in front of them in this debate: I don't think the government is going to talk about us overrun the predators, because this government has done it year after year when it's been talking about the killing of wolves within the zone. We have great confidence in the names, and the names have just asked that this wolf be either moved or that hunting be permitted. It has not been responded to by the Council of State and the Department. You might want to start with that. I also react to saying that there is no conflict around predators in this area, and that this is designed by the Center Party. Then I wonder if the state councils or the other parties are not meeting people. I have been to countless public meetings in the area where people are frustrated and dismayed at the policy of today's government. Then I hope that the Workers' Party can consider voting for the Centre Party and the Advance Party's proposal. We have been constructive in the negotiations that have been, we have tried to obtain a majority. The working party has had a lot of different suggestions over the past 12 hours. I hope that the Labour Party will be able to participate in and obtain a majority for the proposal we have put forward now, together with the Progress Party. If the Labour Party is committed to obtaining a majority in this matter, they should vote in favour of the proposal we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e2014	The representative of Runar Seestad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e2019	I'm not going to lengthen the debate unnecessarily, but I just want to say that it doesn't exactly invite cooperation always to claim that we have so unclear and many different proposals. We have had one proposal all the way, with a change, while what we are really dealing with here today is a proposal that no longer exists – despite our urgency. So the big changes have been on the Center Party's side and not on ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e2024	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-04.ana.ud444e2039	There is no record. Thus today's map is fully debated. Does anything require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
