ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e54	The President of the People's Party, Henrik Dam Kristensen, is on an official visit to Norway. He's here today at the mall. It is a great pleasure to wish the President and his delegation welcome to the Parliament. [[Applause from the centre]] This year Denmark and Folketinget mark 100 years since Denmark was reunited with Sønderjylland in 1920. Reunification is an important part of Denmark's history. On behalf of Stortinget, I would like to congratulate you on the 100th anniversary. I hope that the chairman and the delegation have had a good start on the stay in Oslo, and want a good continuation of today's program. I hope and wish that the visit will contribute to an even closer cooperation between Norway and Denmark and between our two parliaments. From the Green Group in the European Parliament, the Greens/ Greens/Greens/European Parliamentary Group has submitted an application for leave of care to the representative of Une Bastholm from 4 February onwards and until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative of Une Bastholm, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara Representative Kristoffer Robin Haug, for Oslo, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e89	Kristoffer Robin Haug is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Wiborg, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e96	It is on behalf of the representative Gisle Meininger Saudland and myself a pleasure to make a proposal for the establishment of a Nav Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e101	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present four proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e106	Red will promote a proposal for investment in Norwegian industrial investment in liquid sea winds and a proposal to remove the tax exemption on luxury electric cars and to introduce environmental measures that are for the most part for people throughout the country. There is also more: a proposal to reverse the tax increases on non-alcoholic beverages and to maintain jobs in the Norwegian food industry and trade in goods. Finally, I would like to make a proposal for the publication of what is up-to-date information from the National Audit Office's investigation into the fighting aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e115	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e133	The Presidency today puts forward a recommendation on the regulation of the salaries of the members of the Supreme Court. The Presidency promotes a unanimous proposal that the Stortinget set the salary of the members of the Supreme Court as in the vote. In the last ten years of the Grand Duchy treatment, it has been suggested that the wage trend of judges in the Supreme Court should follow the level and wage trend of the upper tier of government executives. The country's top judges have a function both professionally and constitutionally that makes it unfortunate if wage developments remain below the wage trend in the upper league of government executives. It is important that recruitment to the Supreme Court takes place from both the private and the public sectors, including from both the rights of the property and the rights of the law. Therefore, in regulating the salaries of the judges of the Supreme Court, the Presidency has given particular attention to the actual wage developments of the leaders of the State’s executive pay system the year before and the developments of the judges of the first and second instance. At the same time, the presidency believes that it would also be right to look at general wage developments. The wage regulation should follow the wage trend of the leaders of the government's management pay system and the developments of the judges of the first and second instance in order to be relatively at the same level. On this basis, the recommendation of the Presidency is therefore recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e146	This is really just an explanation of vote from SV. SV is going to vote against this proposal. We believe that it is not the task of the state or the Storting to promote profitability in society. In recent years, there has been a significant wage inequality, which has had a lot of unfortunate effects that we've taken up and discussed on the Storting before. As Stortinget is well-known, SV has made a proposal that we want a wage cap for leaders in the state who are going to be the equivalent of the Prime Minister's salary. On that basis, the SV will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e153	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e170	Let me begin by welcoming the new Council of State to Stortinget. He is given an opportunity to facilitate good cooperation with the Storting in connection with the matter we have for discussion here today, because it is a matter on which there has been unanimity in the Committee on Control in our discussion so far. So cordially welcome to the Council of State! This matter should not have been dealt with in the Grand Duchy, as it has been common practice to give transparency to important matters that the Committee of Inquiry has been provided with the documents they are requesting, and in particular with the seriousness of the matter under consideration by the Committee of Inquiry. It is a story that has hit many innocent people in Norway, where both the prosecution authorities and the courts at the same time have helped to commit injustice. When both the Council of State and the Prime Minister have then stressed that it is important that all stones are turned around, it should be obvious that the document we are asking for here was delivered. It started with an enquiry and a question sent by the Committee on behalf of SV. We received a reply on 28 November last year that we did not have access to the document. Then there was a unanimous committee that said we would have access to that document. We asked for that on December 3. Governments responded to the 11th of December. Then we repeated our claim on 17 December and received a reply on 6 January – equally reprehensible – on a central document in the matter after the Committee's assessment. Also at the hearing that we conducted on 10 January this year, this became a central issue. There it was said very strange by the Prime Minister. She indicated that there had been an agreement that one should not require access to such documents, but what she referred to was a discussion in 2003 about the minority in the control committee should be entitled to require access to such documents. It's completely irrelevant with regard to this matter, because there's no minority who have asked for it, it's a unanimous committee. And point two: it's not a r-note we've asked for either, it's a document that's central to the matter. So the Prime Minister says that Stortinget has not taken advantage of the possibility of requiring access to documents since 1814. It's also wrong. This was done in connection with the then Defense Minister Quisling in 1932 and in connection with the Cuba crisis in 1959. But when there is rarely a need to use § 75 f, it is because we usually get the documents that the inspector believes are important to clarify a matter. According to § 75, even the size has the possibility to ask for transparency in R-notes if one should find it necessary. But that's not what we asked for here. There is transparency in a document that deals with communication between the Minister of Labour and the Director of the Working and Welfare Act, precisely what is at the heart of the matter we are dealing with. So the Prime Minister said in the hearing: ‘Sometimes it is important to remember that the matter of the SSB was also the core of the establishment management. That was the core of the matter itself: what kind of agency management. These records – or the drawings, they weren't even proper records – were in the middle of it. The fact that you can once give more publicity in the heart of a matter does not mean that you are confusing a fundamental question that the Stortinget has resolved." Yes, Stortinget has made it clear that Stortinget can ask for the documents that are necessary. This is absolutely the essence of the matter, the dialogue between the Department and Nav. And so it was a unanimous committee that thought it was central – and central. We must not get into a situation where it is the Prime Minister – or the one to be controlled, the government – who decides what the controller should know. In that case, Stortingen's control function is not working. Nor is it the way the Prime Minister gives the impression in his answers that sending that note, the document, to the Storting is the same as publishing it – she mentions it as publication. No, Stortingen may receive documents other than publicity, but use them in their work to find out about the matter. Then there is a number on the part of the Minister of Labour and the Prime Minister that there is no record. That's the first answer we got: there's not a record available. When defining a record as having both parties going through it and approving it, there may be no formal record. However, there is no doubt that there is a document on this issue. The Ministry’s response to the Evening Post, mentioned in the Evening Post on 27 November 2019, states that more publicity has been assessed and that it is exempt from public disclosure under Section 14 of the Public Health Act. So by definition, there's a document in the department, which we think is central. The development that is not recorded from that type of meeting is in itself frightening given our ability to exercise control. So there were central meetings in what we now know as the Nav scandal. And not only that: we also got insight into an internal communication in Nav, which definitely evolves the secret into a new level. Then I quote: «after further consideration we see that it would be appropriate for the directorate to contact the Riksadvokat orally and agree to a meeting to review the matter rather than to send the letter. This is because the Riksadvokat practises full publicity.’ That's when the secret team is set up. As I said, this proposal should be unnecessary, especially on the basis of what both the Council of State and the Prime Minister have said, that all stones should be turned around and that should be full transparency. But we've experienced the opposite. We have experienced alternative truths about the Prime Minister's presentation of what the Frøiland Committee was discussing in its time. It reminds me a little bit of what we've seen happen in the U.S. Senate last week, that it looks like someone's willing to use their majority to prevent the truth from coming out – in such a serious case that we now have to deal with. I hope that everyone here will contribute to facts coming on the table. I hope that the consensus that has been in the committee will also be reflected in a unanimous decision here in the Stortinget that the Stortinget will see that document and thereby contribute to the information of the case. The state councils have the opportunity here today to announce that it is unnecessary to take decisions, if he practices the openness that has been quite normal in the past, and does not try to hide his secret behind discussions concerning r-notes and completely different types of notes than the note we have now asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e214	This matter has been demanding. We also see that in the correspondence between the control committee and the department. An unusual number of questions have been sent to the ministry, and there have been good and comprehensive answers. Sometimes we have sent questions again to get further answers, and the department has been eager to give answers to the questions in such a way that we should get the best possible insight into the matter. Then it's right, of course, as committee chairman Dag Terje Andersen says, that the possibility of using the Basic Law § 75 is there. It's been used before, but definitely rarely, at least we can agree on that, and that's probably some of the point of such a paragraph -- it's to be used with caution. It was also mentioned when the Frøiland Committee handled this, that it should be in very special cases. I want to say two words about minutes. The starting point was, as the representative Dag Terje Andersen said, that a request for a referendum was expected, perhaps that there were minutes from this meeting. Speakers were a very important topic in our hearing on this matter, because I think we should be able to say that it was perhaps a little strange routine when it came to reporting and approving the minutes. There is no record of the meeting mentioned here. We in the positions, i.e. the government parties, have also been involved and asked for documents. We in the Control and Constitutional Committee have had the habit of agreeing to ask for documents relevant to the matter to be published. So did we this time. The reason why we agreed to ask it again was enough that we felt that it was the reason of the first answer that was not related to our question, where it was shown whether the control committee could ask for it. We are fully aware that the Constitutional Law paragraph talks about the Stortinget in plenary, but I want to underline what the representative Dag Terje Andersen said about what has been practice is that there are documents that can obviously be relevant in the matter, so you avoid dragging them to plenary, but deliver them to the committee on request, because one knows that this is an opportunity. Only the document holder can assess whether these are relevant documents in the case. So I think we're going to have a round in retrospect to see how departmental notes are handled, and what's in-house. Of course, it is challenging when the disclosure law is used to avoid that disclosure and at the same time to say that it is not a public document. The reason why we do not agree with this proposal is simply that we have had an incredible number of questions in this case. We have had a good hearing and received information on the table that has made the process visible – from A to Å. It is rare that we have known so much about the details of a matter and how progress has been. In its last reply to the Committee of 6 January, the Council of State concludes by saying: ‘I state that I have provided – and still provide – full information to the Storting on all relevant facts in this case. I have also followed the practice of the Storting itself for which documents the Committee may require transparency and the practice followed by changing governments.» The first sentence that matters to me. When the Council of State in the letter of reply and also in dialogue says that there is no relevant information to be collected, I relate to it. Then I think we have to trust that description, and that it is going to be far from lifting this to plenary in Stortinget. The important thing is that we have all the information that can clarify what has happened in this case. We believe that we have received that, we believe that the Council of State has contributed, we believe that all questions and answers have contributed, and that the hearing has contributed, and cannot in any way see that there should be any information here that changes the impression of how this matter has been dealt with in the Nav-department dialogue or the follow-up of those places. That is why we have chosen not to support this proposal. I think there may be a fundamental debate on this in the future as well, and we should like to join them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e238	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e243	Large parts of the post to Svein Harberg I could keep. There is, of course, a sample together to evaluate the control activities of the Storting, and I think that this experience is going to contribute to that discussion, to put it that way, and possibly an even clearer drawing of what we perceive as practice. But I have a question for Harberg about the conclusion, which I disagree with. In connection with the discussion on the Frøiland Committee, the representative Carl I. Hagen, who is in our joint committee, said: ‘We have had this debate three times, and a clear minority has established for me a complete principle of course, that if doubts arise with regard to the controller and the controller, it must be the controller who determines what needs to be transparent.’ Does Harberg agree with the good opinion of former representative Carl I. Hagen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e255	I agree that Storting will actively seek the information that is needed to ensure that someone knows what has happened in the matters we are dealing with. There's no doubt about it. What becomes the balance for us in this matter is whether we can in any way imagine – when the Council of State has clarified that here it is not relevant information about what we need to know – that we should go to the step of using the Basic Law to obtain such a document. That's what's our balance in this case. As I said, and as we know it, we were asking for the document, but we accept the Council's answers. I think the principle is that we should definitely deal with this in a different context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e260	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e265	There is no doubt that this is one of the most serious issues that Stortinget has to deal with, and that the committee is also working with. I have spent the last few days and have had my full rent in being able to put me into all the documentation that is in this case, and it is quite demanding. Nevertheless, there is no issue that has been so much evidence that Stortinget has received from a government council. I am a little surprised when the representative Dag Terje Andersen here says that it is important to get all the facts on the table, and that this can prevent the truth from coming out. I think we have to be clear and honest with ourselves: this answer is not crucial to whether the truth comes out or to get all the facts on the table. There are so many facts on this table that we are all aware that this is the most serious matter that is being dealt with and that has also emerged in recent times. I am therefore pleased that the Committee is so thorough in its work on this matter. I look forward to the outcome of the committee of inquiry, which will also look at the matter itself. The progress party was also in position and agreed that a letter was sent in December, twice, and refers to the response given by the former government council Hauglie on 6 January. We must not forget that, after the letters of reply from the Council of State, there have been two days of consultation. There has been full opportunity to ask questions and relevant information has been provided at the hearing. It is a little special that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV use so much energy that this is the answer they want, which is crucial to the matter, that they have to refer to the Constitution and a case related to Quisling from 1932 and a case from 1959, which involved lending ammunition from the Defense to Raufoss Ammunition factories. It just shows that this is a paragraph that is used very, very rarely and in very special situations. It is a practice that has also been used by other governments. I believe that with the reply given by the former Council of State in its letter of reply on 6 January, and with what has emerged at the hearing, the Committee is in a position to make a good decision and make its conclusion in the comments on the case and the decisions we are going to make. That is why the Progress Party is not going to support this proposal for a representative and it does not think it is necessary for this matter to be properly informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e276	As a co-constituted member of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, I need to share some thoughts on my basis in order to address such a proposal to the Stortinget. The Control and Constitutional Committee has worked intensively on the content and causes of the practice of EU social security regulation 883/2004 Article 21, also known as the social security scandal. After an extensive investigation of the facts throughout November and December, there are still some open questions from the members of the Committee. One of them is the content of a document from the meeting of the then State Council Anniken Hauglie and the Director of the Labour and Welfare Directorate, Sigrun Vågeng, 25 October 2019, a few days before the case was made public. A Joint Committee asked for transparency in this document until 3 December 2019. The response from the ministry is clear in many ways, but above all it gives the ministry a response confirming that there is a document hiding behind locked department doors. The Ministry responds to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee that the file covered by the transparency requirement is exceptional to the public. In the following hearings on 9 and 10 January, both former State Council Hauglie and Prime Minister Solberg were challenged to deliver the document under discussion to the Committee. As you know for Stortinget, there has not been a single initiative by any member of the government to get this done. Therefore, I am pleased that the Stortinget today gets this representative proposal for handling in plenary, and that the Stortinget collects can support below and get answers to questions that are still not answered in the same way as many, including many. recently appointed Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Røe Isaksen, is referred to as one of the most serious cases in Norwegian legal history. As a conclusion, I will bring a strong call to Stortinget. In November last year, just a few months ago, we were familiar with the study of the Directorate of Administration and ICT on the trust between the Norwegian people and the politicians in this Assembly. This was a particularly gloomy reading - one that has reached a presumptuous bottom level on the trust scale. Only 42 pst. of the asked expressions of trust in leading politicians. A situation like this, where the government sees a lack of openness against the work of the Stortinget, is, of course, noticed by the voters and the people. Should a repatriation of trust and well-organised parliamentary work not the government can once and for all show such an understanding as one has experienced when it comes to the delivery of this document. The Prime Minister and the Government have stated on several occasions that one must turn every stone. In this case, neither the Prime Minister nor the government has contributed to it. I therefore ask the Stortinget to take action so that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs can do its necessary work on the control image in this matter. Therefore, I hope that there will be broad support from this House for the content of the proposal for a representative today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e291	I would like to start where the previous speakers said that if there is one thing we all agree that the social security scandal is about, then it is the confidence in both big business, government and administration – yes, to the authorities at all – and it is clear that that trust has got a serious grip on this matter. For this reason, the Storting Control Committee has also been concerned that our treatment, the clean-up that will take place, and the review that will take place by the Committee of Inquiry, will also be about restoring confidence between the population and the authorities, which have failed – with such drastic consequences for at least 75 people, who have been unjustly imprisoned and convicted. We don't restore trust in our system by holding back information. We do not restore confidence in magnification and government by the fact that the control committee does not receive answers to all the questions we are asking, including in two unanimous letters from the committee. On the contrary, the line has been, from several of us, that this case should lead to the whole and full truth being revealed, that each stone should be turned. But this particular stone is not to be turned, obviously, and it's really alarming, because it gives an impression out there – for those who follow this, for those who want trust to be restored – that you don't actually seek full openness and get the whole and full truth. I agree with the chairman of the committee that this is unnecessary. We shouldn't have to deal with this in plenary. I am responding to the justification given by the Right Party of the Position, and also by the Progress Party, from the Chair now that they do not want to support this proposal. We'll hear from representatives Svein Harberg and Solvency Horne that all the information is given, and that we don't need any more information now. Why do you say that? Yes, because the Council of State has said so. It may be that the Council of State means it, but the Storting cannot know it. We cannot take it too well because we are going to decide what is all the relevant information in such a case. And we can't know if the meeting document we're talking about is relevant, because we haven't seen it. If it turns out to be completely irrelevant to the matter, it is okay. Then we have made it clear, then we can move on, and then we release this uncertainty – which is about and goes right into the core of the control function on Stortinget and not least the relationship between collapse and government. The second problem with the justification from – so far – the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Chamber is the lack of a fundamental assessment, because this is about whether the Storting should be able to take informed decisions. So when a unanimous committee – twice – believes that this may be relevant, that we need to see this, it should not be left to reason that the Council of State disagrees. The principle of the matter is also based on a custom, a practice, which was established among other things. in the case of the reorganisation of the Statistical Central Bureau. At that time, such a meeting document was exempted from publication under the first paragraph of Section 14 of the Public Service Act. On questions — also from a newspaper — and to the Supervisory Committee at Stortinget, it was claimed that there was no record. At that time, the Civil Ombudsman concluded that a document other than disclosure under that paragraph is to be regarded as a meeting document, and the result of the case was that the Supervisory Committee was made aware of it. It's important to remember that practice, because there's a lot of similarities with the thing we're discussing today. Firstly, the same paragraph of the Public Health Act has been used. Secondly, there is also a need to address some of the arguments that have come from the civil parties, and this was also the case at the time of an etat management meeting that was at the heart of the case. We hear from the Prime Minister, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and from parties here today that this is an internal ministerial note, that this is something else. But no, this is also a meeting between the ministry and the department, at the highest level and at a very crucial time in this matter, in this timeline. It can't be more central than that. Nevertheless, you do not want to have access to this meeting document, and it is disappointing. I would also like to point out – just to underline that also the representative of Solvency Horne pointed out – that we have had a two-day hearing, and that we, as the representative of Svein Harberg too, have received many answers. Then I'll say yes, absolutely, and I'm happy for that. Overall, I feel that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the other departments we have asked, and the Prime Minister's office has answered well the questions we have asked. In a very demanding situation, they have striven to give us good answers, and I am pleased about that. However, the fact that we have had hearings and received answers to other questions does not help when we do not get an answer to this question – neither in principle, in terms of the relationship between accumulation and government, nor in terms of the matter. Because the left-hand impression is that here it's part of the truth that doesn't come out. So I just want to join in what has been said by the committee chairman, among other things. on the practice of the Basic Law § 75, and the errors made by the Prime Minister in consultation, as well as in the written replies of the then Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Anniken Hauglie. We're not trying to claim any minority rights, we're not doing that. It is absolutely true, as the Minister of Labour pointed out from the Frøiland Committee, that the proposal promoted by the SV and the Progress Party at that time was not supported. But it's not a minority we're trying here; this comes from a unanimous committee. When we also see the need to refer to the Basic Law Section 75 of the letter, it should be quite clear that we are talking here about a long, long practice in which the control committee is given access to the documents it considers necessary for the matter. I am quite disappointed that several parties do not want to join this important fundamental clarification on the one hand and the important question of the social security scandal on the other. It's a shame because we've been saying for a long time that every stone should be turned, that the whole and the full truth should come out. It's also a lot about justice to the victims in the case, that they should know that the Storting has seen everything that is to be seen, and come to a conclusion based on it. Now I know that the next speaker is the Council of State, and that is why, despite the announcement of the vote that has come from the Right and the Advance Party, I will join in what the Chairman of the Committee also invited the Council of State, and that can end the matter here and now. It is that the Council of State goes to this pulpit and says that this document will be given – and let me underline: in an appropriate way. To give the Storting a document is not the same as publishing a document; we can get it except for publicity. It would have calmed down this matter, it would restore confidence in the investigation, in the cleaning up, and not least would have been important in principle for Storting's control function in the future. It is my strong call to the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, who is to be on the pulpit now after me.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e318	There is no doubt that the Nav case is very, very serious. That's what the former state council said. That's what the prime minister said. Both have offered unreserved excuses, and I agree to that. This is about a slightly different type of case, a slightly different type of aspect. State Council Hauglie has previously communicated that information has been provided to the Storting on all relevant facts in this case. If I were to deliver departmental documents, it could, as we also heard in the submissions, open up a precedent to which the Stortinget had previously been opposed and which would undermine the reasons justifying the exemption of internal documents. In other words, it is purely a matter of principle that underlies the views of the government. As mentioned earlier, the right of access to the file has been discussed, including: in the context of a proposal by the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left, that a minority of its members could require transparency in documents of silence and internality. That proposal was discussed at the Innst. S No 210 for 2002–2003, point 4.4., and I quote: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Right and the Christian People’s Party, opposes the proposal to extend the right of access to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. Similarly, the proposal is rejected for 1/3 of those voting or for members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to be able to require the transparency of documents relating to confidentiality or internal documents, with the exception of government notes, etc. and kept secret for the sake of national security.» The majority rejected the proposal by 66 votes to 38. In other words, the size has explicitly assessed and rejected a right of access to internal documents of the Control and Constitutional Committee. The same reasons argue against taking decisions under the Basic Law § 75 f. The relationship between the Storting and the Council of State is known as a relationship between the Storing and the State Council. If internal notes in the ministries are to be disclosed in the same way as other documents, this balance sheet will be distorted. The proposers refer to the SSB case, where three internal reports were published to the Control and Constitutional Committee. It was an exception to practice. In that case, it was internal minutes after three meetings, where the question of the case was just what steering signals had been communicated in the meetings. The fact that the internal records contained that type of factual information is relevant in a more public assessment. However, the Civil Ombudsman concluded that it was possible to exempt the documents in question from public disclosure under Section 14 of the Public disclosure Act on internal documents, just as it is in this case. But in this case, there are no internal documents that can shed light on clarifications or discussions that took place at the meeting. There are no documents that say anything about what actually happened in the meeting, but a note that has been prepared as part of the preparations prior to the meeting. The subsequent documents, which are available in letter form and say something about what actually happened at the meeting, have been forwarded to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee as part of the preparatory work for the hearing. Should these types of internal notes be issued, it would open up a practice that such internal documents are generally issued, contrary to the principal line of the Stortinget. I see no reason to do that, even though the opposition uses this principle approach as a starting point for theories for which there is no basis – theories that the government has something to hide. The government doesn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e344	I was very surprised at the statements made by the Council of State and I assume that he, as quite a new Council of State, has been led to keep it in place, because here many of the same mistakes that were made by the former Minister of Labour and the Prime Minister in the hearing were repeated. The Council of State attaches great importance to arguing against minority rights, but minority rights have not been claimed in this case by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. It may be abandoned by the Council of State — it is totally irrelevant. In connection with the report of the Frøiland Committee, there was a discussion on internal government documents, in particular r-notes. This isn't close to it. This is an important document in the relationship between the Department and the Nav Director — a meeting they had — that goes to the very heart of the matter, and that the Council of State uses to justify why we were given access to the SSB case. Will the Council of State now – I was about to say – get involved in the facts of the matter and deal with them?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e355	I think it is wise – also as the head of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee – to assume that government councils who come to the Stortinge say what they think, and have been involved in matters. That's my first point. The second is that when I refer to the Committee's discussions on the basis of the minority proposal that came from the Progress Party and the SV, it is because there was an explicit discussion also on the principle of having a general right to ask for transparency on the part of the Control and Constitutional Committee. The discussion we have today is about something a little bit different. It concerns the right of the Stortingen to obtain documents based on the Constitution § 75 f. There is no doubt that the Stortingen has that right. This means that what the Storting is going to decide today is not whether that right exists, but whether the Storting wants to use it. It is a decision that the Storting must take in the usual way. Finally, the government has made the assessment that this is an internal document, not a meeting report, but in any case it is an internal document. There's no fundamental distinction here from the government's side between, for example. an r-note or this, which is a preparatory meeting note.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e366	I note that the Council of State continues to argue on the basis of a 2003 discussion on minority rights, which is not at all relevant to this case. When the Council of State says that there is no more information in the document he was about to post – that we have received all the information: shouldn't it be the one controlling, who assesses it, not the one being checked?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e373	I think it's wise to start from what's the usual relationship between big business and government. It's that Stortinget knows only the Council of State. What does that mean? This means that in any case, all government councils are obliged to provide full, relevant information on issues submitted and, of course, answer questions from the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. It's never meant that you have an obligation to produce internal documents from the ministry, and that's exactly what the government's starting point is. It's a principle distinction that didn't come with this government; it's a well-established principle. The main reason for this is that having established a principle or precedent for asking for internal documents could distort the principle that the Storting knows only the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e378	For the sake of order, we have asked the Council of State for transparency, and we are aware that the Storting knows only the Council of State. However, a lot now suggests that the Council of State has not intended to use the possibility of following up on what is common practice, that the type of documents relevant to a control case is provided without having to use the plenary session and the Constitution § 75 f. I will end with a question: I assume that the Council of State, as a good Right-man and former Minister of Industry, started the day by reading the Evening Post. Could the Council of State think of reflecting on today's executive article in the Evening Post, which points to the principle relationship between corruption and government and the ability of the Stortinge to exercise control? Could the Council of State subsequently, when he realizes, among other things. that minority rights have nothing to do with the matter, do you intend to follow the advice of today's editorial in the evening post and let the Stortinget have access to a document that is at the heart of the matter before us?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e387	I've read today's editorial in the Evening Post and I'll be able to answer it, but I can say something about my thoughts around it here as well. That editorial is based on the same reasoning that the representative Dag Terje Andersen has, and that I believe is wrong in this case, because it is an internal document. That's the principle reason why the government takes this discussion and sticks to it. There is no practice in internal documents that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee — even by a majority — is entitled to deliver. Of course you can ask for it, and there are some examples of it being extraordinarily delivered, but it is also clear that there have been exceptions, not the establishment of a new precedent. This means that on the question of whether the Control and Constitutional Committee has the right to have internal documents supplied by the Ministry, the government’s answer will be no, and it is in line with the established practice of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e394	It is rather disappointing to hear that the same mistakes are repeated, also from the pulpit, in this matter. I am particularly responding to the part of the reason given by the Council of State that is that there is no relevant information in this meeting document, that it is not central to the matter. A simple comparison can be made with previous practices, from the SSB case, where there was also a floor management meeting, and at that time there was reason to provide insight into Storting’s control function. That is why I would like to repeat the question raised by the chairman of the committee who was not answered. That question is: does the Council of State believe it is right that it is the controller who decides what is relevant in a case, to the controller? Is that really okay?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e401	As I have said, and which is the prerequisite for this whole reasoning – as Anniken Hauglie has also explained: All relevant information has been provided in this case. That's the starting point. So what we're discussing today is not whether the Storting has a right to ask for internal documents under the Basic Law § 75, but whether the Storting should use it. Of course, if the Storting decided to do so, the government would follow suit. But it is not the case that the Control and Constitutional Committee, even in its role as an inspector, has a general right to obtain internal documents from the departments. The fact that it has happened exceptionally is clear. But doing so, as the representative also stressed in his statement, about a principle or precedent – is not right, and that is what the government stands for, also in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e410	The principle and the precedent are already established. It was made clear in the case of the reorganisation of the Statistical Central Bureau, and there are a number of similarities, because – as this time – it was a meeting document in which disclosure was rejected on the basis of Section 14 of the Public Health Act and where, because it was such a central level management meeting, it was relevant for Storting’s control function to have access to that document. I would like to repeat that this is not the same as publishing the document. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: what is it that fundamentally distinguishes this matter from the established practice we then came up with?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e417	I disagree that there is an established practice or a precedent, and that is perhaps where some of the different opinions of this matter lie. That it was done, there is no doubt about it, but it was an exception to the general rule. Then there may be some specific assessments of the SSB case, and that there were meeting reports that said something about the core of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, but that is not the main point. The main point is that no such precedent or principle has been established. This means that it is an assessment, and then it is not the case that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has a general right to obtain internal documents. Why? Well, because there's no distinction between what kind of internal documents it is -- it's internal documents or not, at the moment they're classified as internal, or are internal. It's because Stortinget knows the Council of State. Governments are obliged to provide information, but not all of the internal documentation from their own departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e425	We're not going to get any further, the same reasons are going to be repeated again. That's why I want to end with a last call and a last question. It is the case that this comes out from where we all – the Storting, the Government, the Courts and the Public Prosecutor – have agreed that in this case we must bring out the whole and the full truth. It is important to restore trust in the system. Doesn't the Council of State mean that the government and the entire government of the people are well-deserved that we can give insight into this matter, given what the victims have experienced, and in view of what we have all agreed on: turning every stone?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e430	I have three brief comments. First, it is a prerequisite for any government council to give the full picture of the relevant information to the Stortinget. It does not imply, as I have said, an obligation to deliver internal documents. This matter is not finished either – in no way. It's going to be a lot of follow-up, not just to clean up and substitute for the people involved, but also a follow-up where the public will learn. There is a separate review committee set up, and I have notified that we also need to see if we need a law selection to look at the legal text and the wording there. That's point two. My third point is that there are some principles for the relationship between corruption and government that have also served Norway well over a long period of time. One of the most fundamental principles is that Stortinget knows the Council of State, and that there is therefore no principle or precedent for the delivery of internal documents from the departments — even if it has happened in exceptional cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e439	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e444	First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that we get this case as a matter for the Stortinget, because there is a recognition that the Constitution § 75 f has not gone out of history, that it is an active paragraph, even though it has been experimentally argued that it has almost historical interest. But it is precisely because, after the provision entered into 1814, we have received parliamentaryism in 1884, and then there has been – let's say – more fine cooperation between this hall, the Stortinget, and the government. So when it is just pointed out that there have not been many cases where the Storting has used § 75 f, it is precisely because it has been in the back of the Storting in cases where the Storting has needed such documents for its handling of the cases. We are also not told any secret by the fact that we have also had minority government for many periods. Of course, this has made the government more responsive. That's why I'm a little surprised by the Council's procedure here for what was really going to be uncontroversial in understanding state law, the relationship between big business and government. First of all, I think that there is a slight error in discussing the control committee's direct – let's say – requisition authority towards the government, mixing it with the Stortinge's right to do the same. Therefore, I am reassured when the Council of State – after some comments – says that if you want to invoke the Basic Law § 75 f for access to documents that you think are relevant, the government will of course comply. It gives at least an established base for what we're discussing, and that consensus. But I also notice that both the Council of State and others tend to interfere with other sizes that are not relevant to the matter, among others. the disclosure law. This basic law is much older than the public law we received in 1970, and that is when it comes to public transparency, regularly represented by the press. Here we're talking about constitutional transparency as the Storting has, and it's also so that you can receive information about secrecy, which we just have examples that the Storting can both get and can treat. The Public Health Act will be a siding here, even when it is claimed from the Department that more publicity has been assessed against those who have asked for transparency. It is not the case at all. Since reference is made to the fact that the Storting knows only the Council of State, I must also say that there is no leading administrative or constitutional principle. It's not a legal maxim. It is a starting point for the fact that no blame or responsibility can be placed on employees on the part of the Council of State. But there are many examples of the fact that the Storting knows more than the Council of State, and it's actually supposed to be happy for it, because that sometimes means that you can nuance the criticism when you know that it's unreasonable to charge the Council of State for errors made in a directorate or further down the department. I am amazed that we are now arguing so strongly for a position that cannot be maintained. In the constitutional audit, the only change we made in this paragraph, § 75 f, was to change the right of access, where the review was public documents, to public papers, and it was just to break it off from the well-known document concept of administrative law. So the real protection you have against extradition is for purely private letters, private records. When you are set to govern public interests and in that sense serve yourself by documents internally, the term is not what sets the limits of the Storting's right of transparency under § 75 f, if it has to do with the government's governance, and if the communication is of interest. It is also true, of course, that § 75 f is a control provision, and that is to say it is retrospective. That's also what I'm saying in order to remind you of the horrors you get about what it would lead to if the Stortinge were to deliver this document. It is not a question of the Storting asking for continuous transparency of processes which the government and the departments must be fully justified in their own right. They must be able to think highly internally without it becoming a public matter, I will defend it. But this is a control rule, where there are known documents that are part of a trial for the Stortinget. It goes without saying that there is a very high threshold if you have to go to Stortinget's plenary and ask for a plenary decision to get some documents out. Everyone will understand that it will not be part of the ongoing activities of the control committee. The discussion held in 2003 was precisely whether the Control Committee should have extended powers in direct enquiries to the State apparatus. That's the very good reason, which you can talk warm about, that it shouldn't have. It looks a little bit like the second discussion we've had about the committees and their competence here in the Storting. Nor have they been delegated their own decision-making powers. You have to go via Stortinget if you're going to have a decision from Stortinget. So I'd say it shouldn't be that you mistrust this from party-political motives. We must not end up in the American trap or in what is currently lifting the 'checks and balances' system, that is, that there is control of power, and reduce it to a question of tactical party politics. As for the reason why I do not want to vote in favour of the recommendation as it has now come from an overall committee of control and constitution, Harberg has something to do with this, even though I have to nuance a little here as well. It cannot be said that the Council of State's assurances that everything is in order form the ultimate limit to the transparency of control of the Storting. It can't be like that. It is the Storting that will have that power of definition at all times. But then I have to say that in this context a review commission has been reduced. The majority has even adopted a special law which allows unhindered silence to be expressed to that Commission. That is, this case comes back to Stortinget, and then the Stortinget can assess whether you have been given access to all the documents you want, because then Stortinget also has a case. It brings me to the next point, and that's what we're now discussing, is the result of a quick oral presentation from the predecessors of the Council of State. In fact, I would say that the Storting must lubricate with patience and wait for a review commission that has extended transparency by definition, and where we have good experience in order for the government itself to comply with the Commission's request for transparency also in internal documents. This happened, among other things: in the investigation commission that went through the entire play-out of the banking crisis in its time. It is also easier for these review commissions, precisely because of the specific provisions they are given, to obtain the documents which they consider relevant in order to provide an overall presentation to the national Parliament. Therefore, on the basis of the case that is not available – because there is not a complete suspension from any team, not from the government, there is an oral statement from the Council of State immediately after the Nav case became known – I would say that it is too early to say that the Storting should require internal documents provided. The size will then be able to come back to it and assess it, and I hope that it will be based on the view of an institutional control of the government, and not on party political considerations or more tactically justified arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e467	I have to say that I listened with interest to the article from the representative Tetzschner. I thought there was a good line in the reasoning – until I heard the conclusion, which I didn't seem to fit anything particularly with that line. But I would like to highlight in particular what Mr Tetzschner said about avoiding American conditions. As I said in my opening post, it is that we end up in a situation where performing the control task is complicated because a government has a majority in the Storting, a very serious situation. I would also like to answer the representative Horne, who asked why we as proposers used so much energy on this matter, that it is very unusual to deal with proposals that are based on the Constitution § 75 f. But then there is also a very unusual case. I'll say it like this. Once we've spent some energy on it, it's on behalf of the Stortinget – and until we get here in the hall, it's on behalf of an overall committee, which has therefore believed that this document is central to the assessment we're about to make, among other things. of trust in the Council of State. That is why the document is important. I very much agree with the representative Tetzschner that we absolutely must not end up in a situation where it is the person who has information, who will assess whether it is relevant for those who are going to check. It would be a dangerous situation for us to end up in. I have said – and the Council of State has said – that we know only the Council of State. Yes, the point of that is that it is the Council of States that we can take responsibility for, and we are fully aware of that in this matter. I have not heard any other examples of a government saying no to deliver documents, other than that there is one example, linked to the Mongstad case, which was probably among other things. a communication between two departments. But this is not the kind of case; this is a matter that goes to the heart of the matter we are dealing with, namely the dialogue between the Department and Nav. That's why I hope the Council of State will take another look at the editorial in the Evening Post and think about it. I have to say, I think it's going to be a sad day, given the votes that have been announced. If I assume that the parties that claim to the government, but have not said anything, also vote for the representatives of the government parties, it means that the majority accepts that the government should decide what is relevant for the Storting to be made aware of, in a situation where we exercise control. I warn against making such a decision. There should be unanimity here to ensure the control function of the Storting properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e480	I don't think I need to repeat the main points in my first post, but a few things have to be commented on. Freddy André Supreme Court says this is a very critical document and time. Then we have not read the same schedule in this case – I just have to say that. Everything was clear before this point in time, so that this is all of a sudden the decisive moment, I think is very strange. Then I agree, as the representative Tetzschner also said, that it is difficult and demanding to assess what is relevant, but it is therefore the case that the Committee has asked the Council of State to send all relevant documents in our questions to the Council of State. This means that we have added that assessment to the Council of State — to provide all relevant information. I have to say that former councillor Hauglie has been offensive, open and honest and has given all the relevant information – yes, it was even a while she thought it was above all we got, but it was well because we were going to go through it in our committee. Then it refers to – I think it was said correctly, but I'll give it to myself if it's wrong – that the Civil Ombudsman has established new practices. Yeah, so the Civil Ombudsman can't do that to the Stortinget, that's what the Stortinget decides. In the specific case of SSB management, the Civil Ombudsman stated correctly that the document should be delivered, but in the same document, the Civil Ombudsman had many concerns about it and also said that there could be occasions where this was not relevant. So I think we'll be careful to give the Civil Ombudsman power in this room, as it was referred to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e491	I would like to begin by thanking the representative Tetzschner, although he is not in the Chamber, for his legal advice on this matter. I am following his reasoning a long way, but I also support his conclusion, for the Left is going to follow the majority of the Stortinge on this matter today, and the proposal is likely to be downgraded. It doesn't have to mean that we can't come back to the matter later, and I think it's right that we do. It's a very important thing. It is a matter that involves all three state powers — not to say four — and ‘trafficking’ in connection with the treatment of these state powers. Reference has been made to the sample assessing the control function of Storting in this case. There I sit, too, and this has been an important question in this sample, without me going into what is said there. What has not been promoted as an argument in this case is that this is a matter of the communication between the external and the internal level. It should probably be said in this debate that if there were to be a precedent for the immediate delivery of communication on demand — usually by the minority — it would immediately lead to a less precise communication between the outside and the internal level, i.e. it would be obvious. that it is converted to oral. It is likely to contribute to a decrease in the level of precision in the treatment of some cases. I do not believe that a delivery of these documents will immediately create precedent in this matter, precisely because of its seriousness. I hope at least that a similar situation to the one we have experienced in the Nav case will never arise again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e500	There are a few things that are said that I have to attend to. First to the representative Harberg: Assessing what is critical and not critical, we all get to take, but at least it is so that a unanimous control committee felt that this meeting document was important. And there are some obvious reasons for that – first of all, that it was the first meeting of the Council of State and the Nav Director in this most serious legal security scandal in recent Norwegian history. There should be reason enough to say that this is a critical meeting at an important time in the matter. Then the representative Harberg points to this with the Civil Ombudsman, and I think it's okay to just clarify: the undersigned has at least not tried to claim that the Civil Ombudsman establishes any practice for the Stortinget. The Ombudsman pointed out that, by definition, a document which has been refused publicity under that paragraph of the Public Service Act is a meeting document. That meeting document was made transparent to the Supervisory Committee in the context of the SSB case. So it was then the Storting that clarified what was practice. It has been shown that it was an exception, and then I think that this matter and its seriousness should be a good argument as to why the same conclusion is reached with regard to this meeting document. Then I just have to add to the line of those who say that the representative Tetzschner had a good post – right up to the conclusion. I'll justify it. Yes, a review committee has been set up – notice the difference in words, the representative Tetzschner called it a review commission, and that could indicate that it is the Stortinge that ordered that review, but it is not. There's been a review of the government, and it's considered a Norwegian public sample, I think. There's nothing bigger than that that really has something to do with it. Strictly speaking, we do not even know whether that sample will give us a case, whether the government will deliver a case to the Stortinget, because it is to be regarded as a Norwegian public sample. So formally, it's going to be a derailment. It's all about matters of principle quite important, namely, the relationship between magnificence and government, where we have to assume the control function of the Storting and not allow government-reduced samples to influence what we decide to do here in this room when we're going to get to the bottom of the most serious legal security scandal in recent Norwegian history.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e511	I would like to make a few comments at the end. First, this is a multi-track case, and there are several different discussions. As I was very clear in my post, it is not that I or the government mix what is the control committee, and what is the Storting. As I have perceived the premise in some of the questions from the opposition, and it is possible that I have then misunderstood, it has been that the control committee should have, or almost have a right to have, these documents delivered if requested. I have then argued that the government does not think so. The discussion we have today is about something else, because it is about the possibility for Storting to ask for these documents to be delivered on the basis of Section 75(f) of the Constitution. No one disputes that the Storting has the right to ask for it. So there might be a discussion about how often you've used that right. I'm not going to go into that right now – but no one is arguing about this. It also means that I assume that the representative of Tetzschner’s point that only private letters are excluded applies precisely to the discussion that you have, on the basis of Stortinget’s right to ask for documents based on the Basic Law § 75. It's an assessment I also share, regarding the discussion we have in the hall today. That's why, as I say, it's also obvious that if the Stortinget makes a decision, of course, the government will comply with it. It is also good to stress again that this is not communication between the department and the external department. As the Council of State Hauglie has also stated, the follow-up to the meeting with all the conclusions and precisely the communication between the ministry and the external body has been forwarded to the Committee. This is an internal document, a meeting preparation document. Nor is it a record, as I see it, that the committee has also registered. Then there's one thing that's important to say at the end, just to clarify it – and it might be unnecessary to say it: it's obviously not that it's the council itself that, at its own discretion, sets the limit of what is relevant information. It's very important to emphasize. It is one of the most important responsibilities of the Council of State, not least when matters arise within the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, that when the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs asks for all relevant documents, they shall receive all relevant documents. This means that, in my opinion, the discussion here concerns the principles of the Storting itself, which imply that it does not imply an obligation to deliver internal documents. It has been done exceptionally. But, as I said, the Storting may ask for it to be delivered according to § 75.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e528	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e545	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e552	I want to start by thanking the proposers for putting an important issue in focus. It is critical that those in need of emergency services are met in a good way and with a good enough offer. We just have to admit that it's maybe little that's as stressful and traumatic as being subjected to violence from one of its closest, like a man is happy about. In many cases, this is something that goes over time. Unfortunately, it is common to feel trapped in relationships where you are threatened with or exposed to, for example. physical and mental violence. Breaking out of a situation where you are subjected to violence by one of those you are happy with, or one that is very close, is difficult enough in itself. It is therefore important that the public reception apparatus is good enough to reduce the burden on individuals when seeking help. Unfortunately, violence against women and violence in close relationships is a major and structural social problem. This is highlighted in the case and also referred to in comments from the Committee. We also need to recognise that women are more likely than men to be subjected to gross violence, extensive control, threats, sexual violence and partner killing. Violence also affects children, both directly and indirectly, making it even more essential to ensure good crisis response. When we look at the intention of the representative proposal, it is not difficult to agree that the crisis centre offer should and must, and has the potential to, improve. At the same time, we see some open doors being opened by the proposers and also pointing to things that the Council of State in its letter of reply to the Committee states well – measures already in place. It is clear that the municipalities are closest to finding the offer that best suits the users. At the same time, detailed management of the offer is proposed, how to mannify. That is what I and the majority of the committee are very sceptical about to be decided at a political level. I refer you to the Council's letter of reply and I think that he gives a good account of the various measures there. There is no majority in favour of the proposal as it now stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e573	This is a good proposal from SV, and it is good comments and comments the Committee has described in the case. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for a good review and for letting us through the committee. The Labour Party believes that it is not good enough as it is today for crisis centres and practices. In the past, therefore, we have made proposals for concrete improvements, including: in Document 8:73 S for 2014-2015. There we had 18 suggestions, including: proposed to establish regulatory quality requirements, rules on competence requirements and measures to improve child care – in order to mention something. In Document 8:99 S for 2018–2019 we pointed to suggestions for women in active intoxication. SV brings up other and important aspects of its proposal in this setting. The government has announced an evaluation of the crisis centre offer. The Labour Party agrees, and we ask the government to come back with an overall review of both the evaluation and the challenges that remain in the crisis centre service. I expect that the announced evaluation and review will also take into account what is still critical, such as: the provision of services to women in active care, the provision of services to the disabled, and men, as well as the prevention of violence in seeking help. Some have pointed out that women are very economically dependent. Others point out that there is a shortage of housing to which the victims can move after they have been in a crisis centre. Over the years, the crisis centre secretariat and crisis centres have been very concerned about the problem of detention. It's a problem that's serious, where women who are raped and subjected to violence over time are without the possibility of getting away from these conditions. These women need better protection. The government also launches an action plan for the same area. We've been waiting for a while, so that's good. But I just want to say to the Council of State – I hope he can be specific about it – that the action plan needs to be more concrete. There is a tendency that action plans are too under-commitment, too diffuse in terms of responsibility, and contain too little money. So I hope that the Council of State, along with the Minister of Justice, is clearer. I refer to the proposal where the Labour Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e592	The representative of Kari Henriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e597	The first crisis centres were set up by volunteers in the 1980s. 30 years later it became a public responsibility to provide a crisis centre service to the population. The law obliges municipalities to offer violent women, men and children a comprehensive offer and constitutes a milestone in the fight against violence in close relationships. At the same time, municipalities have great freedom to decide how to organise their offer in practice. After a significant increase in the number of male residents and day users right after the law was introduced, the number has stabilised in the last five years. Fresh figures from 2017 and 2018 show that there are 200 fewer overnight stays total. The proportion of men remains very low in relation to the proportion of women. I would like to go into two of the points in the draft representative. The first one goes to 80 pst. government funding through designation. When the law was passed in 2010, the Stoltenberg government decided that the state part of the funding should be incorporated into the municipal framework. This should be a reform fully in line with the principle of municipal autonomy, which is very strong in Norway. The starting point was that municipalities are closest to finding the best-suited offer for users, and that they can organise the offer as they think is best, based on local circumstances. What has changed now, ten years after the law came into force? Is it true that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV believe that municipalities are now less able to make local priorities? Is it the case that these parties would rather add to a centralisation by proposing the government designation of the crisis centre offer? So to the second proposal: the proposers propose the introduction of requirements for sufficient proximity. The crisis centre statistics for 2018 show that most centres serve several municipalities and cover large geographical areas. An advantage of today’s arrangement is that they can make an offer that they themselves want. Nordic research shows in its report of 2019 that there are clear differences in sizes of crisis centres. Municipalities with the smallest centres spend more money per capita than those who manage the medium and large centres, without being able to establish that money consumption is reflected in the quality of the offer. The major centres are in municipalities and municipal cooperation with many inhabitants, and according to the report, it is such that ‘large offers can have economies of scale that less offers do not have’. They also have special competences in respect of honor-related violence, forced marriages and violence in close relations among minorities. Is it such that geographical distance is more important for the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV than the quality of services and the ability of municipalities to decide for themselves what is best, based on local circumstances? On the right, we are concerned that we should consider measures that ensure a good supply of crisis centres and highlight the important role of crisis centres in overall efforts in municipalities. That is why we do not support the proposals that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e618	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for including an important theme. The central party is an integral part of the proposal. Bufdir figures show that in 2018 there were 1,842 people, divided by over 1,700 women and 135 men, in the crisis centre – that is, 93 pst. women. Nine out of ten women had been subjected to repeated assaults. More than half of the women had lived in pairs before they visited crisis centres. A group that stands out clearly, and makes up the majority of those who live in crisis centres, are women with immigrant backgrounds. These women are not only exposed to mental or physical power in the world. They also often lack networks. It is therefore particularly important to ensure that measures and assistance to this group are effective. It is the responsibility of local authorities to ensure the defence of the supply of crisis centres to women, men and children who are exposed to power or who are under threat of violence in close relations. Experience shows that supply varies, and there are different challenges – such as capacity, economics, resources, accessibility, long-distance travel to the nearest crisis centre, staffing, etc. It is the public's responsibility that people who are exposed to power and deception, and who need shelter for a while, are cared for in a good way, regardless of which municipality they live in. I refer to the setting, where, together with the SV and the Workers' Party, the Center Party proposes to ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a case on the crisis centre offer. The centre party believes it would be natural to get an evaluation of the crisis centre supply, which the government is working on, cf. letters of reply from the Council of State dated 18 September 2019. The Central Party endorses the proposal for an evaluation of the supply of crisis centres for men and the proposal for improving the supply of crisis centres for the Sami population. Various reports show that, in relation to the population, there are many more people in the Sami population who experience violence and abuse. A consensual committee acknowledges it. The central party thinks there is a responsibility on the government when it comes to following up the findings of these reports. When this is said, there is in any case one thing that one cannot evaluate away from – it is that the municipalities have sufficient resources. In the case of crisis centres, new technical solutions, web pages and digital services and forms cannot be more effective. Crisis centres must have enough people with the right skills. Then we'll be back again to the municipal economy. For many municipalities, budget management before Christmas was cut, cut and cut. For the Central Party, strengthening the local economy is entirely decisive for good services where people live, and of course it also applies to the crisis centers. Unfortunately, the local economy is weak under the government of Solberg. I finally take up the proposal from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e633	The representative of Olav Urbø has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e638	Violence against women is a structural problem in Norway, a major social problem. One in ten Norwegian women has been raped during their lives, and we know that most of the rapes, most of the sexual violence in Norway, are between people who know each other. Fortunately, we have had a movement that has set up crisis centres on a voluntary basis around the country and has led to the fight against violence against women. It has subsequently been taken over by the public. In 2011, municipalities were given full responsibility for financing the crisis centre offer. Then there is a responsibility on us to see how it has gone. We know that the financial framework for the various crisis centres can vary from 1.4 million. kr to close to 23 mill. kr. We know that several crisis centres have been closed down. It is reported that municipalities shop in crisis centres far away from the municipality – which provides many hours of travel. Under the Istanbul Convention, we are obliged to make a real offer to those who are subjected to violence and abuse. The question is whether we actually follow up on those commitments when we see how serious the situation is at the crisis centres in this country. These are quite terrifying stories – at least those I have heard – from crisis centers around the country, and we do not believe that we do, at least not in SV. That's why we think it's time to learn from the experience and see that the conversion of funding has not worked. It might be a special responsibility to us three red-green parties. Therefore, I am also a little disappointed that no more than SV supports the proposal to change the financing model, because it would have served us well that we, who initially introduced that change, were the first to learn from it. I would like to stress from the Chair that at least SV has done so. We take our responsibility and propose another model, which ensures that crisis centres are a low-threshold offer and an equivalent offer across the country. There is no low threshold when it is several hours of travel to the nearest crisis centre. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e649	The representative Freddy André Øvstegård then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e655	Violence and sexual abuse against women and children are a major social problem, and it's a topic that involves me strongly. I am pleased that there is such a clear cross-political consensus that we must prevent violence and sexual abuse against both adults and children. That consensus is important for the field. The government, through the escalation plan against violence and abuse against children and young people, has made a historic effort to ensure a better offer to children and young people exposed to these cruel criminal acts. The 2020 effort will be above 1 billion. kr. It is important to be able to help more people and not least to provide better help. It has been ten years since the crisis centre law came into force. I know that many municipalities work very well to take care of women, men and children who need help in a critical life situation. I also know that the quality is uneven, and that we need to keep working to get a better offer. Representatives are addressing several key challenges in the supply. There are complex issues where we need to balance the objective of an equivalent offer across the country with the consideration of the great diversity of municipalities. Unfortunately, there are no simple solutions. Let me comment on some of the measures proposed. First of all, with funding and the proposal to go back to a state sub-financing of the crisis centre offer: I understand the desire to ensure equal funding for all centres, but we must remember that responsibility for the crisis centre offer has been added to the municipalities. The autonomy of municipalities is an important principle, and there is a strong consensus that municipalities should be able to organise their statutory tasks as they see fit, based on local circumstances. As far as proximity to crisis centres is concerned, it is clear that it is a challenge that some vulnerable people have more than 300 km to the nearest crisis centre, but fortunately, there are very few, and many have much shorter travel routes than this. We live in a long country, with a scattered population. We have just received a report showing that the offer at the smaller centres is often worse than at the larger centres. In the small centres, there are several residents who return to the perpetrator of violence, there is less cooperation with other services, and there is less development of competences. This is worrying, and it makes me not sure that the offer will automatically improve if it is established in small centres. I think we should rather look at other solutions. Otherwise, I agree that the situation in Finnmark, where the only Sami crisis centre is closed, is unsustainable. Our Directorate follows up Karasjok municipality closely, with the aim of restoring and strengthening a Sami crisis and incest centre offer. The government is also working with an action plan on violence in close relations, which will have its own part on violence in Sami areas. It is natural to consider measures in the crisis centre area. The Government Platform states that we should evaluate the system of transferring responsibility for crisis centres to municipalities and assess measures that ensure a good crisis centre offer. I can assure Storting that this is something I am concerned about following up. Many measures are under the control of the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs. We gained a good knowledge base in November, and we continuously assess the need for new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e676	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e681	The Council of State was concerned with differences in the provision of crisis centres in the municipality of Norway. I come from the Agder region, and I was actually one of the first volunteers to join in establishing a volunteer crisis centre with us. Then we had a phone in the wall and a sofa. It was the offer that time, so it has improved a lot. But there are big differences, and we see a government that increases the differences through the local economy. In its alternative state budget, the Labour Party has strengthened both measures for the crisis centres and the municipal economy by 3 billion. kr. When the Council itself points to the major challenges he is already facing, does it see the need for increased appropriations for both crisis centres and municipalities, so that all women in Norway can have the same offer and get a good service?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e688	Thank you for an important question. I think the challenge with the local economy is always going to be there. With the risk of self-confidence: if you look back at the municipal economy in recent years, it has resulted in a very large disposal fund in the municipalities. There are record few municipalities on the ROBEK list. Nevertheless, I recognise that we have these challenges, which are important to ensure the best possible provision of crisis centres in municipalities. I believe, of course, that the community economy is important, but I also believe that when we are now working on the evaluation, it is important to look at other issues related to how to organise this. At least I'm going to be busy – I've visited several of the crisis centres – to make sure that the municipalities take on the legal task they have, and that they work together to ensure a good crisis centre offer. It worries me that there are some municipalities that don't seem to be so busy about it. It's dangerous to say that they're not aware of it, but at least they don't have it as far ahead of them as they should, in order to ensure that their inhabitants also get a good offer of crisis centers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e695	The Council of State then has an important task of ensuring that all municipalities have this on their agenda and come forward consciously. When the Council of State now at least gives the impression that the local economy is less important, I wonder: Under this government we have seen that very much is transferred to the municipalities, and we have seen government councils that largely point downwards when the services are not working properly. I now experience from the Government's response that there is something similar that happens also in this respect. The Council of State was aware that there are several measures that should be taken, and I would like to challenge the Council of State on which action he considers it necessary to take immediately and which do not need to wait for evaluations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e704	At first I would say that I don't think it was the perfect offer in 2010 either, when the red-green fell. When one then chose to transfer responsibility to the municipalities, one of the reasons was that one had believed that it would provide an even better offer. When it says in the Granavolden platform that we want an evaluation of it, it's just to see if it works according to purpose. That is why I think the post to the representative of Övstegård is interesting. He has concluded that it was wrong, and he will have the honor to admit that we politicians can make decisions that in retrospect turn out not to be as good as we thought they were. I believe it is too early to conclude. Now we've got a knowledge base, we're following it up, and we're in the process of evaluating it. The most important thing for me is that women, wherever they live in the country, get a good and competent offer. To try to reach out to the question: I think competence is extremely important, and getting enough staff. It is very important, and therefore I am concerned that the municipalities take the responsibility they have, as it is required by law that they provide a good crisis centre offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e711	It is good to hear that the Council of State points to much of the same issue and the experience we have had so far, which suggests that, unfortunately, the crisis centre offer has become worse in recent years. The crisis centre law says that the crisis centre offer should be a low threshold offer, but we know that several crisis centres have been closed down, and we know that there are many hours of travel in some places. There are at least examples of a few places with up to four hours and more to the nearest crisis centre. Does the Council feel that offering such a long journey is a low threshold offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e718	As I pointed out in my article, and as the proposal for a representative highlights, it is clear that by such a long journey it is a major challenge, but with such a long country there will unfortunately also be some who will get a long journey. What we have now learned is that the smaller centres have poorer quality of supply and less competence, which is also a challenge in providing women, men or young people with what they deserve. That's why I want to stress that there are many dilemmas here. I don't think it's a good idea either that if you had done as the representative wanted, to state it again, everything would have been perfect for that reason, because there are also many advantages to the local authorities being responsible. It is diversity, it can create cooperative solutions and ensure the most appropriate offer. Therefore, I believe it is very important to follow up this evaluation in order to ensure that the offer is optimal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e723	Thanks for the answer. At least it is good to hear that the Council of State agrees that such a long journey is problematic, because it is obvious that the answer to the question I asked is that it is not a low-threshold offer. And it's pretty serious, when it's so far to the door that it might initially be difficult for many to visit, and when we know that many unfortunately travel home to a violent partner. It's pretty heartbreaking, really. Then I can also briefly mention that when at least I've been out visiting the crisis centres, they say about the time we had the funding model that we had before 2011, that it was the best situation they've ever had – then it went forward. It's not like that now. We also see that there are considerable differences between crisis centres, and with an operating budget of from 1.4 million. NOK 23 million. kr is it very different standard. The next question: When the differences are so large, does the Council of State think that we have an equivalent crisis centre offer, as the law also says we should have?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e732	First, I just want to make it clear that in the case of the smaller centres, one sees that women are more likely to go home to the violent perpetrator, and that's also a challenge. So one thing is that they don't necessarily look up the offer, which the representative is concerned about, but I think that might also help to substantiate that the quality might not be as good as it should have been. But to the question of equivalence, it's clear that that's what's the challenge. In order to get enough centres around and to get the shortest possible distance, there will also be less crisis centres and thus less budget than for the larger centres, which will be located in the larger cities. So the starting point is that the quality is equal to whether it's a smaller center or a larger one, but I know that, for example. where it is related to drug use, it will be difficult to provide an equally good offer in a small centre. But this is one of the obvious issues that the knowledge base also shows, and that is going to be part of the evaluation we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e741	For the Central Party, consistency between the tasks of the municipalities and the local economy will always be important. We have been able to do that all along, even when we were in the red-green government. We must only note that during the Solberg administration there have been more tasks and not the corresponding with money. In addition, the crisis is a labour-intensive service; in fact, it is not possible to make a particularly high level of efficiency. There must be people in place when it happens – to say it that way. My question to the Council of State is simply whether the evaluation will also take into account the number of positions we have in the crisis centres today, is adequate, given the need and a little independent of the local economy of the individual municipality, i.e. a macro-assessment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e751	First, I want to repeat that it will always be such that it will be challenging for the municipalities to make the budgets go up. I myself have been a municipal politician, under various governments, and it has always been demanding, just as the action space in the Norwegian economy in the future will make it difficult to make government budgets in the next few years. Nevertheless, there are record few municipalities on the ROBEK list. Disposal funds for municipalities have increased considerably – only in terms of tax revenue last year, it was 5 billion. extra kroner for the municipalities. So it's not really bad in the municipalities either. However, on the issue of manning: it is clear that manning is very important in order to provide it with the quality and the range of services — whether related to drug use, mental health or other challenges faced by those at crisis centres. Therefore, it will also be part of what we work on when we follow up on the knowledge base and evaluate how to ensure the best possible crisis response for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e758	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e779	Combating social inequality and helping to reduce disparities are at the heart of the Workers' Party. Through the Norwegian model, our society is built on and around reducing differences. Through community, tax and distribution, the idea is to provide equivalent living conditions and welfare services. All are affected when inequalities increase, but the children are hit the most, and the most vulnerable children, who depend on society to set up, deserve everything but a failed offer. When we last 21 October called on the Minister of Children and Family to take the initiative to make a presentation in Stortinget, it was in concern for those of our children who are struggling. We did so on the basis of all the assignments given and received reports from experts and supervisors, despaired employees and children with experience, the concerns of the Children's Ombudsman and an increasing number of issues in the EMD and because we are impatient on behalf of a service that should have contributed so much better. Patience is a good quality to have. In meeting with child-restraint children, who deserve better, and employees who describe a desperate everyday life with the experience that they don't stretch to, we shouldn't allow ourselves such patience as the right-hand government shows. This is my and the Labour Party's reason why we are working to put forward a new policy on municipal child protection, because we asked the Council of State to explain the overall situation in child protection, that we challenge the government on individual issues and call for commitment, and that we want to put in place the adopted phase-out of commercial actors. The council repeats and repeats that we must wait for a new law. With respect to reporting, it becomes too much, too passive – firstly because the children live their lives out there here and now, today and tomorrow, secondly because we as legislators know that changes in laws themselves require time and resources. Our two parties, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, agreed on proposals in the United Kingdom on the development of a publicly and non-profit-making child-restraint. One of the reasons why the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party felt that there was a need for a change was the slow choking of the ideals by means of price and tender. January 22, 2019 – we can say one year ago now – the Christian People's Party took over the position of child minister in the right-hand government, and still more money is being paid out to private commercial actors. I actually thought we agreed that we didn't have a single penny to put in the investment company account, at the expense of better offers for children. Ideal actors indicate that there is a different regime now with the major commercial actors. These have great administrations and good legal skills, with a primary objective of making money. And this is where ideal actors lose. In order to provide better help and better provision as early as possible, we proposed in our proposal for child protection reform, among other things. contributing to low-threshold measures in municipalities with multi-disciplinary services to expand the hub and social services toolbox so that children can receive unbureaucratic measures such as home help, homework support, support contacts, etc. We did that because society has to meet people with different social backgrounds, families with poor advice and living conditions stress and families with language problems in a better way. Researcher Bente Kojan at NTNU has researched poverty and child protection and inequalities related to class divisions. She tells about an overrepresentation of families with low incomes in child protection. Our two measures could not possibly depend on a total legislative review, and should have been initiated completely independently of this. The number of children who live in isolation or who live alone in an institution intended for several children has more than doubled from 2014 to 2018 could reveal VG. Exclusive measures are purchased by private actors. Doubtful connections are described between the order and the provider, and according to Bufdir, only measures have cost more than 2 billion in the last two years. SEK – 2 billion. Two-year kr! What do children and parents get for this money? And how much of this is picking up commercial companies in profits that don't benefit the children? It is the media that reveals the use of money, the lack of supervision, that the children do not receive the health monitoring and follow-up they are entitled to, as any other child in Norway. After each look-up we hear good wishes for follow-up and action from the government, but it happens too little, and it is going to happen too late. Policies and developments are justified by the responsibility for children and young people with more complex needs than in the past. What does the Council of State really think about this? Did this get completely out of the blue, or is there a tendency we've observed over time? Can we expect the Council of State to continue this development? What's the reason for the growth? Where does it fail for these children along the way? I do not hope that the answer to this is also pushed to a future review of the law, without the possibility for the Storting to discuss developments on a serious and professional basis. When prevention fails, there is a need for more repair. It's a negative spiral, bad for the children, for the parents and for the state budget. Differences are growing, children in persistent poverty are growing year by year under this government. Now we can soon count 110,000 children. There are still too many differences in the offer of child protection to children and to many children for whom the community does not have the power to take responsibility. I have to say I can't fully grasp the government's grip taken by the right-wing government, as well as continuing actions under the Stoltenberg government. What this government calls a reform, which the Workers' Party otherwise voted against, is not good enough. After six years, the criticism has increased, and it is not just because those who are critical have gained more space in the media. The criticism comes from employees and supervisory authorities. The so-called reform was, as we warned against, too under-commitment and too little overall, and there is too little money with it. This is not about employees not doing what they can. Of course, employees may make mistakes, but this is about the fact that the system does not sufficiently prevent errors. The Heierna campaign and employees would like to contribute to success stories. They say they need more employees. The Labour Party agrees, and we have therefore strengthened the appropriations for earmarked posts each year. The right-wing government owes it to the municipalities. Well, even there, the same government is giving less chance to actually deliver success stories. Many municipalities have to cut budgets because the municipal framework does not follow up on the increased tasks. I do not know if the Council of State remembers that there are six pages of new tasks that have been assigned to municipal child protection in recent years, without the government having proposed to grant a single crown to new posts. The Labour Party has a municipal framework of 3 billion. kr greater than right. That's because we're re-prioritising the big money. With us, the rich have to pay something more in taxes, while those with low income get more in the payroll bag. We think that's fairer. For example, it would improve the municipal economy. Fromand i Agder wanted to get approx. Ten million. kr more, Lvgal 5 mill. kr, Kvinesdal 3 mill. kr and Buddy nearly seven million. kr more. Not following up statutory tasks with increased resources can work, but only until a certain point. In Child Protection we are far above that point, so far that the Children's Ombudsman has stated that it is not the responsibility of the municipalities. It is the responsibility of the state and thus the right-wing government to enable the municipalities to provide good services to all children. Even the chairman of the committee has stated in debate that municipal child protection needs more resources. But from the right-hand government, it's still quiet. In many areas, the families of child protection work more than most others. A NIBR report in 2005 investigated causes of death in parents of children and young people who had child protection measures in the period 1991–2001. The cause of illness and suicide among these parents was more widespread than in the normal population. The 2008 NOVA study, Children’s Protection Clients in Norway 1990–2005, showed that children’s protection had a much lower living condition than children outside child protection. Researcher Bente Kojan shows that language and class affect the measures given. The Children’s Ombudsman has clearly stated that the government must take responsibility for ensuring that the children are granted their rights. Absence from education is higher for children under the care of child protection, and income inequalities are growing between those who have the best and those who have the worst income. What will the government do to improve the living conditions of children and parents in child protection and ensure that all children receive equivalent care, treatment and education, irrespective of their place of residence, class, background, language and culture? And how will the Council of States cooperate with the Stortinget to develop better cooperation, and not just through the announced legislative proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e822	First, I'll be allowed to thank the interpellant for addressing a serious and important topic. One of the most important tasks we have as politicians is to ensure that all children and young people get a good upbringing – that they are seen and heard, and that they get the care they need. All children shall be given equal opportunities in life. We then need to ensure both broad and targeted action. Children and families receiving help from child protection are among the most vulnerable in our society. That's why it's absolutely vital that we be able to help these kids and families in the best possible way so that they can create the life they want. The interpellant refers to research that supports the fact that these children and their families often face more challenges in terms of quality of life and living conditions than others. This is serious, and that is why we have already taken a number of measures to improve the daily lives of vulnerable and vulnerable children and families. Several of these measures are specifically targeted at children and families in the field of child protection. This field has a high priority for me as the Council of State, and I'm glad that the Committee also has a great commitment to it. I want to say that it's now happening more than in a very long time, and during this ageing period, there's going to be an enormous amount of happening in the field just because we're going to intensify the efforts and improve the work of some of the most vulnerable kids. Because it will be too extensive to address everything that has been done, and all the actions we are planning in this area, I have chosen to bring forward five areas of action. It's efforts for children and young people living in families with persistent low incomes; a special commitment to the health and school of children in the field of child protection; The reform of child protection the enhancement of child protection competences; work on new Child Protection Act The government's aim is to improve the living conditions of vulnerable children and families. This is what we do, among other things. by strengthening efforts aimed at children growing up in families with persistently low incomes. Children of economically disadvantaged families shall have the opportunity and the freedom to create their own future in the same way as other children. Last year we increased child benefit for all children for the first time in 20 years, and this year we are increasing by a further NOK 3,600 for children under six years of age. It's a historical bet that matters most to those who have at least already. In addition, we're going to have a free-time card for all children aged 6 to 18, so that all children can have a meaningful everyday life and participate in leisure activities that they themselves want to participate in. We know that the causes of children and young people living in persistent low incomes are complex and complex. It is therefore essential that we have a wide range of measures, while targeting measures to reach those who need them. The government has started work on a cooperative strategy for children in low-income families to be provided later this year. This is a cooperation between several actors and also several departments. The strategy will focus on actions that provide children in low-income families with equal opportunities as peers to conduct education courses, have good and safe living conditions, participate in organised leisure activities and have access to healthcare. We're doing great work. We had a great recording meeting in Drammen just before Christmas where we got a lot of good recordings from, among other things. voluntary organisations and local authorities. If we are to be able to help those who need the most, we need to cooperate and coordinate, so that we can get the best measures in place. Children and young people in child protection may be particularly vulnerable to falling from the educational cycle. It is therefore important that we help those who are struggling at school. Prevention of non-response from the educational cycle is important for children and the future relationship of young people with the labour market. The support scheme Support for youth follow-up and piloting functions aims to improve the school performance of young people and to help more people complete secondary education. Children in contact with child protection services are overrepresented in this scheme, suggesting that they need better follow-up to complete the school. To improve children in the school and education situation of child protection, from 2014, we have carried out a school effort of our own. An important objective has been to increase the attention and priority of schools and education for children in child protection, both among child protection workers and in school. Unfortunately, studies show that children in child protection have more frequent mental and somatic health challenges than other children. It is therefore important that this is discovered as early as possible, so that we can prevent more effectively. In cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, we are now implementing a health effort to provide better and more holistic health and care services to young people in the field of child protection. I'm very happy about that. And as part of the health effort, we are developing collaborative models for children in child protection to be investigated for mental and physical health disorders and better adapted and more holistic follow-up. It's important, so we can give these kids the help they need at the right time. In today's society it may seem that asking for help is a weakness. I disagree that it is. Rather, it shows strength. We all need help. The question is not about, but when we need help. By getting in early, we can prevent the challenges from escalating. Children and families receiving child protection are a particularly vulnerable group, and through the reform of child protection, municipalities will be better able to give priority to the provision of prevention to children and families. In the proposal for a new Children’s Protection Act, I also consider imposing an obligation on municipalities to coordinate the prevention work. Today, municipalities are responsible for a number of services and offers aimed at children and young people. I believe that municipalities need to see their services more closely in the context, so that children and young people can have a safe and well-growth. More than half of child-restraint workers have expressed the need for more knowledge to assess the care situation in families with a different social and cultural background. More competence is therefore a central tool for providing more equivalent assistance. So let's do something about this. In the new guidelines on child protection training, we have clarified the need for culturally sensitive competences. We have established several continuing training offers, and during the spring I will send a proposal on the competence requirements for child protection at the hearing. It is important to give young people and their families a more adapted and comprehensive offer. Good and adequate staffing of services is also essential for more equivalent offers. In recent years, we have seen a higher priority of child protection in municipalities, in the form of new jobs. That's very good, and I want to give the municipal politicians credit for this important work. In the future, I will be close to the municipalities in order for positive developments to continue, and I will ensure that the municipalities that work the most are followed up in particular. The parent role may be demanding. Family protection is one of those services with a high level of competence that can help parents when they need it. Parents who have lost their care for a child may need special help. Family protection can help parents to cope better with their new parenting role as cohabitants. For some, family protection assistance can also help to improve their parental skills so that they have a greater chance of getting care back. We are also developing a national quality system as part of the child protection system. This will contribute to better documentation, simpler working processes and professional support for good judgement and decision making. Better working processes give more time to follow up on the individual child and family, and this will strengthen legal certainty. These are important measures. We're also working on a whole new child protection law, where kids' needs are centered. We will build on the resources that exist around the child, and facilitate the involvement of the child's family and network. This is important both in order to be able to put in place measures that are well adapted to the needs of children and families, and in order to ensure important relationships for the child with the need for out-of-home action. The new law shall be simpler, more accessible and better adapted to today's society. In this way, there will be a better tool for child protection services and other actors in child protection. This could help to improve the quality of child protection and strengthen the rights of the young people who need it most. The proposition of new child protection laws is to be submitted to the Stortinget in 2021, but we are going to make some changes already in a proposition now in ours. We are facing many important reforms in the time to come. I see that it will be challenging for the services, but I am grateful that we have so many great employees in child protection, who every day go to work to help children and families, and who all the time want to evolve to meet changes in the needs of children and families. I am therefore pleased with the support I feel that the reforms are meeting. Together, we can give our kids the growth they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e872	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I have no background to say that the Council of State will not develop child protection into anything much better than it is today, for which I think the Council of State really has a heart. But it might be a little weird when we get all the criticism we get, and now we've heard for 10 minutes all the government does, and they think it's good that we're still standing there -- in the situation that we have many mistakes and big challenges. It must be good for the Council of State at least to know that he has full support in Stortingen to do more. The opposition really wants to contribute to the development of child protection in a good way, and there we stand firm. We have also shown, as the Christian People's Party was involved before they went into position, that it is possible to increase the allocation in some areas. What is the situation is that while we have these efforts, this government of the welfare state eats in other areas, which is just affecting these children. I'm not going to make the list that long, but it's glasses support, it's increased kindergarten price, it's cutting welfare schemes for chronically ill people, etc., which will just hit the families with the lowest living conditions score. We fully agree with many of the measures that the Council of State has proposed, but I have a feeling that there will be too many measures, too many projects, which will be used as examples of good solutions and things to develop. However, there are too few structural changes that make these proposals apply to all children throughout Norway, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. low threshold offers. It's very good that many municipalities get it, but we're going to have it in all the municipalities. What will the Council of State do to ensure that good practice is made available to all children in all municipalities? The same applies to the instrument. As the Council of State was concerned, there is a need for complex measures. Then I can ask: Has the Council contacted the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to find more flexible arrangements for the instrument, so that children and child protection employees do not go through bureaucratic systems to trigger relief measures for the children and families who need it, and so that they can strengthen the services at the other end so that we do not get these extra appropriations for commercial exclusive measures? We now see that this is a result of perhaps not introducing good enough measures in the first line and good enough prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e883	I would like to thank the representative for his support. That I can feel a support from Stortinget to make important changes, I am pleased. At the same time, it surprises me a little that the criticism now is that there are too many measures, that it is being carried out too much, while it was discovered that there were no things happening. I want to involve Stortinget in many important decisions in the next few years. Firstly, it is clear that the Stortinget has already adopted the child protection reform, which dates from 2022. It becomes important to give municipalities even more responsibility in prevention — that they take responsibility for it. Then I am glad that the municipalities have taken a great responsibility in terms of staffing. They've hired more people in child protection. From 2013 to 2018 there have been 1,300 more, and there has been an increase in capacity in the last year. We have allocated 90 million for 2020. kr to continuing training to ensure the upgrading of competences that will apply to all municipalities and, together with DigiBarnevert, it will strengthen both the competence and legal certainty of the various cases. I am concerned that when we work in the future – as I said in my post – we will already have a proposition for Stortinget. There we will be able to advance some of the changes that I know more about in Stortinget have been concerned about with the annual state reports – which we want the local government to discuss precisely in order for the municipal politicians in each and every municipality to have to deal with child protection and get an update on the state of the situation, and hopefully to get even more involved in getting even better child protection. But we have also tried a conversation process in the counties of several counties. We want to roll it out so that all the counties get it. I think that will strengthen legal certainty, and it will also lower the level of conflict – they have found good solutions. When reference is made to all these investigations, which also demonstrate that there are challenges in child protection: we have ordered these investigations because we have wanted to strengthen child protection and do it even better. In the light of various investigations, there is enormous work going on, precisely because we want to give priority to a field that means so much to the most vulnerable. What is about private actors – as I have said many times in Stortinget – we have a full review of, among other things. to look at the goal that I am particularly concerned with: 40 pst. non-profit actors by 2025. And in terms of sole measures, which the representative was in on, there has been a marked decrease in the use of that year I have been the Council of State. I love that consciousness. So I'm especially engaged in foster homes. There, we're working on our own strategy just to be able to recruit even more foster homes and not least better follow-up. In the field by field, we are in the process of making very important changes. It's done a lot, and it's going to do a lot in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e898	First, I would like to thank the inter-pellant, the representative of Kari Henriksen. It's important to discuss child protection. There is certainly no disagreement in this Chamber that we should have a safe and good child protection and that the best way to guide the child in the measures we propose. The right is concerned that parents who have challenges to care for their children will receive the same help no matter what background they have, and no matter where in the country they live. I noticed that the representative Henriksen in his statement did not address the need for competence and good leadership in child protection, and I would like to say something about it. There are a lot of reports that have emerged, not least from the Health Service – we have this year’s report on the Vestlundwegen Youth Centre, we have the 2017 report on the failure of the Child Protection Service in working with messages. The Ministry has also asked the Health Authority to go through 106 care transfer cases – we received that report in 2019 – and we have the Children's Ombudsman's own report on children in child protection institutions, which came in 2020. These reports show that there is a need for different types of child protection skills and that there is a need for enhanced child protection management. This competence is about children and families having to be seen and heard from their place of stand. In particular, competence is needed in how to meet families from different cultures, what professionals call cultural-sensitive competences. There is also a strong need for legal competence in child protection, particularly in care transfer issues, and there is a need for skills in relation work, i.e. how to guide parents precisely to prevent transfers of care and to keep the child with them. I think this is incredibly important, and I'm very pleased that the government has made a strong commitment to it. As the Council of State said, it's now 90 million. In order to enhance the competence of child-restraint workers, there is an opportunity for many to upgrade in order to take the right measures in a timely manner. We want the best people to work with families and children who are sorely in need of help. It is therefore important to have large enough professional environments for those working in the field of child protection so that they can discuss matters, exchange experiences and not least have the opportunity to develop and have leave, so that they can take on- and on-the-job training. The council also mentioned in its speech here that we are working with a child protection law to provide better services to children. It is gratifying that the Council of State is now signaling that a requirement will be made for municipalities to report annually on child protection in each municipality. This means that, as a municipal politician, the number of employees, the need for competence in the municipality, the issues the municipality has, how to work in the field of child protection, and how many concerns there are. This will increase the transparency and knowledge of policy-makers and, in particular, facilitate their prioritisation. It is also gratifying that there is an increase in the number of employees in the field of child protection from 2014. We also want to legislate for post-protection to the age of 25, because we know that many people need special follow-up. Systematics deliver results, and there is systematic empowerment that will produce results. Not least, we are also concerned with legal certainty, and I am particularly concerned about this conversation process that is going to take place between parents and children and statesmen in connection with care transfers. And last but not least, we need mandatory health studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e919	I take the word because I think this is a very important interpolation. The answers from the government council are good enough, but one does not take on board what is the real question of the interpellation, namely that children in child protection have a much lower living condition than children outside child protection. One responds with the measures being taken, with more and better competence, better leadership, new child protection laws and annual state reports in the municipalities, and that is good and good, but there is cause for concern about what is being addressed in the interview: that there is a class distinction here, and that there is a greater risk that children who are born into families with lower living conditions experience a lack of care and that child protection has to come in with measures. It is actually a failure statement for society that one cannot distinguish these differences — that there is a greater risk of experiencing care failure when one is born into some families than in others. The discussion is about how to make child protection work better for everyone, and also about how to avoid children in some families having such a high risk of experiencing care failure. The fact that we have a class distinction in Norway in this area should get a lot more attention. Language and class we know influence, and then we know that it also leads to these children having a greater risk of failure in education in the future, etc. So the question of how to better live with children and parents in child protection is a very fundamental question. I've been busy and experiencing it as a great injustice that children in child protection have worse health care than other children in spite of the fact that we know they have bigger challenges. I am pleased to hear that several people now call for mandatory health investigations and that action has been taken on this. It was just supposed to be missing – and it's too late. But one must also make sure to, among other things, child and youth psychiatry is given a boost, otherwise you will never achieve this the way you want to. There's one thing I miss from the council, and that's that he's taking this up with rush. There are some different numbers, but between 50,000 and 150,000 children in Norway live with parents who are addicted to drugs. In 2011, the National Institute of Public Health said that approx. 90,000 children have at least one parent who has abused alcohol, so it is around, and it is about drug abuse that has a negative impact on the family and children. If there is one thing that should have been mentioned in this debate by the Council of State, what the government can do to prevent drug abuse in families, because in child protection debates we often talk too little about parents actually having a drug problem. This is one of the reasons why in many cases one has to take the children away from their parents — that one cannot provide the care that the children need. So I'd like to hear the Council of State say something about it in its final statement, because that means I absolutely belong to this debate. And so, when we talk about this with resource-powerful and non-resource-powerful families, I've been contacted by a lot of parents in the staggering area. These are resource-intensive families, who are stated that when the child suffers from mental illness and there are no treatment sites in the paediatric psychiatry, the child is entitled from childhood and youth psychiatry to a single action in the field of child protection. Parents who contacted me said that they had stopped this because they were resourceful – and they used this word themselves. But other families may have to accept that when the child is mentally ill and there is no treatment capacity, one measure of child protection is what they are referred to. It's a very unfortunate and unacceptable practice, but an example is that it depends on the amount of resources the family comes from, and of course it shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e932	It was the Council's response to the interpellation that prompted me to ask a few more questions. The question is very clear: how can we not succeed better – and what do we do about it – in terms of the kids we are going to defend, which the state is going to help, and where we are doing one of the most serious interventions in a person's life? I fully agree with the interpellant, which says that we are not in doubt that the Council of State will do well and want these kids to get well, that they will get the help they need, but the statistics are crushing. We're going to play a failed game in the follow-up of these kids. The suicide statistics, which we have recorded earlier, show that there were 150 children in an 11-year-old period – they are old numbers, but the worse it is that we don't have any new numbers. There are 700 children who die in 11 years, half either in suicide or in accidents. It concerns school implementation, disability, exclusion from the labour market. Governments respond well to measures on competence, notification and state reports and so on, but where the problem persists, it is about how child protection works in society around it. The statistics are proof that it's probably too late, but it's definitely wrong. When the Council of State limits the discussion of these competence measures and state reports, it is like talking about road safety by discussing what is happening from the accident site to the emergency department, to rehabilitation and social reintegration. We need to discuss in a much wider social perspective: how can we, as public authorities, help families from the time they are born, to secure the conditions of growth – without having several thousand takeovers, many emergency decisions and a miserable statistics on the follow-up? Proposition is good, because we get concrete decisions and actions – we have to be in favour of that in Stortinget. But what's hard to understand is why the Council doesn't want to see this whole thing in context, with a wide-ranging reporting work involving all departments. That's what's positive, everyone has to contribute and be involved – all levels of government, municipalities, counties, all sectors, schools, leisure services, everything that's related to the community, all the external agencies, all the organisations and the Storting – in a broad debate about how we, with all the money and all the measures and all the professionals and all the systems we have, are going to make sure that every child is safe. Then we can discuss education, then we can discuss how to build cooperation between agencies, then we can discuss how to take action at an early enough time, how kindergarten, school, child protection and others help. Today we're not helping. As the interpellant says, there are no more individual measures missing. What is missing is a reform – a full consideration of how this system plays with the family, with the community, with the school, with the kindergarten, with all those who will help to follow the child from 0 to 18. Today we're not succeeding. We have a big debate on how these decisions are taken, and the European Court of Human Rights has forced the Supreme Court to now review the practice of taking care of and intervening in the protection of children. But it's actually a little bit shadowy right now because even if we make those decisions the right way, and even if we meet the requirements of the EMD, we don't meet our own requirement that we help each child. It is still incomprehensible that the Council of State does not want the participation, participation and support of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e949	Thank you to everyone who has spoken. I would also like to thank Mrs. Johnsen for her commitment to child protection. She points to competence, and we fully agree with the government parties that it is important. It was also an important part of the reform of the Stoltenberg government. Then to the Council of State. I didn't say there were too many measures, and I didn't criticize it. What I said was that in spite of all these individual measures, we see that there are major, serious deficiencies in many areas, which affect those children who wake up every day and take on their backpacks, full of despair, and wonder: How does my day become today? There are children we don't catch, there are children who get the wrong action because the community fails. Today there is a case for the Supreme Court due to a lack of legal certainty. What we have asked in the opposition is to have a fundamental debate, which the council says municipal politicians will get. But we're not going to get it back to Stortinget, and I don't understand that logic. Why should policymakers not be challenged to understand child protection better, understand what major structural interventions are needed to minimise – as much as we can – the serious violations that children experience every day, for example. in the case of prevention? I feel that we now have a child protection situation in which we run after the children with fire buckets, as we did in the old days. There's a guy somewhere, and we can't prevent it well enough. Employees say, "Give us more resources, give us the old social trade so that we can get to the families, work with the schools, work with the health services and work with midwives and child protection workers in low-threshold measures." Where is the structural intervention to ensure that these low-threshold measures are implemented throughout Norway? There I mean we have a way to go. Legal certainty is also a major challenge. Employees in the Child Welfare Service are left by us legislators to carry out a great task of authority. We as a community must ensure that they are able to carry out the serious exercise of authority as it is. There are also challenges – major structural challenges. It's not just about creating a model and introducing it into some municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e960	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic, and those who took part in the debate, for good speeches. I want to start a bit overall: yes, there are challenges in Norwegian child protection, yes, it can get better, and yes, we still have to work on it. But at the same time, we have a child's protection that does a great job. It's about 50,000 cases every year, and in most cases it's very positive. These are families where child protection, family protection and other services in municipalities are inside and assist the families who may need help for short or longer periods of time. It is also important in this debate to stress that child protection works very well in many places, and it also turns out when the statesmen go through the various child protection systems. Yes, there are municipalities that are struggling, but there are also municipalities where it works well. I record demands for a roll-out message, presentation and debates in this room, but my claim is that there is time for action, time to implement the measures. Many investigations have shown — whether in the field of institutional child protection, the use of private actors, the foster home field or municipal child protection — that there are some things that are challenging, but instead of making a big process on it now, we are well in the process of implementing measures. When matters come to Stortinget, I think there will be a great deal of excitement about them. It is clear that the promise that has been made about manning matters. 1,300 more annual works since 2013 mean that there are more capacity, more employees who can handle the cases, and I am happy that the municipalities have taken that responsibility. Competence is one of the most important things, and that's why we have a 90 million leverage. kr. in the budget of the year. That is why, as I said in my post, I am also going to make demands on the competence of the employees. It's also going to be one of the most important reforms, or promises, one for Norwegian child protection to make sure it gets better. The representative Toppe was in for health care, and I'm glad she's raising that perspective. I fully agree that children in child protection deserve an offer as good as everyone else. That's why we're looking at this with mandatory health check. I have worked with the Minister of Health in the field of cooperation models on how to get in earlier and closer. In the case of alcohol and alcohol, I fully share Toppe's commitment. Work on the alcohol strategy will be important, but also what has been done with the escalation plan, with 2 500 more annual work in the field of drugs and psychiatry, will be important for parents. I would also like to stress the importance of working with parental support to make it work for parents – other types of action – so that one does not take the longest step, namely taking care of them. The most important thing we can do is to prevent, to ensure that parents can be parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e975	The debate on substance is closed. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e991	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e998	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in dealing with this matter. Debates on the supply of food create a great deal of commitment throughout the country. That's understandable. Pregnant women are in a vulnerable position. Therefore, the Right believes it is important that they feel safe and get the help they need. Fortunately, Norway is one of the safest countries in the world to be born, and so on. A good and well-functioning follow-up service is important for the safety of the natives. Therefore, the Minister of Health has already decided to monitor the follow-up service and the deadline for reporting is 1 March this year. Fortunately, the majority of the committee agrees that there is a lot of good work going on by the government on maternity care. For the right, it has e.g. It has been important to address the consequences of several complex births for both manning and financing, for this is closely linked. The proportion of unplanned births outside the institution has been stable since 1999 and is between 0.6 and 0.7 pst. The vast majority of unplanned births outside the institution take place in central strata. However, no matter where you live in the country, it is important to ensure good follow-up of pregnant women locally and to ensure that they arrive at the food establishment in time. It is therefore good that regional health companies are now required to provide accompanying services in the 2020 mission document. It's also made clear that 90 minutes is an indicative limit that has to be calculated from where people actually live, and not from the location of the city centre. There's a lot to say in a long country where people live. Although the right does not support the proposals that are being promoted today, it does not mean that we do not want to improve the quality of birth care. We want a survey of the follow-up service. It's already started. And we believe that the Health Directorate's mission to set up a professional group to look at whether the working situation of midwives has changed over time is a good measure that can quickly deliver results. There are good processes already in progress to ensure that food supply is even better. I expect that the minority will explain their vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1011	Access to equivalent health services is the carrier of Norwegian public health services. This means that the efforts and resources we put into our common healthcare service will also help to erase the differences at the bottom. For example, it could be economics, language or geography. Economics can be an obstacle to women who want ultrasound for week 12, but who are left to a private health service. Lack of a public offer creates a two-way distribution of the healthcare that the Workers' Party does not want. Language can be an obstacle to women who are new in Norway and who feel insecure when going through something as big and demanding as a birth. That's why we honor offers like multicultural doula, which gives women a safe anchor, which speaks their language, through both pregnancy, birth and maternity. Geography can create challenges for women living far away from hospitals, and that is the difference and this obstacle to a good follow-up service should contribute to smoothing out. A well-functioning follow-up service is essential to provide a safe and good birth experience for long-distance women. Today, this accompanying service is not good enough. In the summer of 2019, VG could tell that as many as 77 municipalities do not have an accompanying service for women with more than 90 minutes of travel to hospital. It's unacceptable. We in the Workers' Party believe it must be the highest priority to ensure these women the accompanying service they already require. That is also why the Labour Party will not support the proposal of the Centre in 60 minutes. We believe it is unwise to inculcate the claim when there are already major defects in the offer. We are concerned that, paradoxically, the proposal of the Centre Party could lead to a centralisation of the offer. We risk that an offer to the women who live closest to us will be at the expense of the women with the longest route. On direct questions to the Earth Mothers’ Association in 60 versus 90 minutes in the hearing on the provision of food, Document 8:148 S for 2018–2019, they underlined that the main priority must be to meet today’s requirements for accompanying services. The working party will primarily follow up and facilitate that all women are covered by the 90-minute requirement. The Labour Party's solutions include the following: We have a more liberal hospital budget that makes it easier for health companies in the country to solve the tasks we have assigned to them. We're holding our election vow in 12 billion. kr more to hospitals during this four-year period. In the context of the State budget for 2020, we proposed a grant scheme that would ensure that all existing midwife positions in the municipal health service could be increased to full-time positions. Together with the other red-green parties and the Christian People's Party, before they joined the government, we received a majority for the following proposal: ‘The government asks the government to consider setting up a further midwife training course, for example Stavanger, to meet the future needs of midwives, both in hospitals and in the municipal health service.’ We are pleased that this is now in progress in Stavanger. Finally, I take up the proposal we are dealing with the Senterpartiet and SV about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1027	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1032	The follow-up service shall ensure that there are midwives on standby who can follow the long-distance route to the food supply. The aim is to provide a medically-professionally justified basis and safety for the pregnant during pregnancy. Since 2010, this has been the responsibility of our healthcare professionals. This responsibility has not been taken seriously by healthcare professionals. A survey carried out by VG last summer showed that 77 municipalities lack the provision of follow-up services despite long-distance travel to the food institution. Many people have believed that this is a legal task for healthcare professionals today. It is not. Nor is it the case that births with more than one and a half hours of travel are entitled to the service, because there is no legal requirement for healthcare professionals to provide this. The limit of the two-and-a-half-hour journey is also not absolute. It is established in the Health Directorate that the border is guided by its quality requirements. In connection with the processing of the last food supply notification, Report. St. 12 for 2008-2009 A pleasant event, it was suggested that healthcare professionals should be responsible for the follow-up service. Furthermore, it is noted that it is ‘natural to propose one to one and a half hours of travel as an indicative limit, but this will depend on communication conditions, how far birth has come, etc.’. However, VG monitoring suggests that healthcare professionals now interpret this as a 90-minute limit, at best as a minimum limit, and at worst a limit that can be overlooked because it is a guide. In addition, health professionals have not calculated the distance from residence but from the municipality centre. The VG mapping has also shown that 18 pst. of all municipalities having more than 2 hours of travel to the nearest maternity ward. That's an increase of 5 percentage points since 2012. Many places in the country now experience that health professionals are trying to shift responsibility for follow-up and preparedness to the municipality. The central party believes that this development must be stopped. New research based on Norwegian conditions shows that there is an increased risk of long-distance travel to a food establishment. Research carried out by Hilde Engjom at the University of Bergen shows that the risk of unplanned birth outside the institution is five times as high by road over 1 hour. The risk of children dying during or immediately after birth is tripled by unplanned birth outside the institution compared to the birth of an institution. Research also shows that first-time births with more than 1 hour of travel to a food establishment have 50 pst. a higher risk of potentially life-threatening complications. We therefore believe that there are medical-professional reasons to set the right of follow-up service to one hour's journey. We also suggest that healthcare professionals have a statutory obligation to provide it. We are making two loose proposals today, no. 4 and 5, which shall replace proposal No. 2 in the setting. So I'm going to deal with these suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1047	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1052	The majority took the following decisions in the context of the examination of two Documents 8 proposals in the spring of 2018: ‘The government is asked to carry out a survey providing a national overview of whether the accompanying services for pregnant women are sufficiently developed and functioning.’ The Christian People's Party voted in favour of this, and I share the commitment of the proposers to the matter that is now under discussion, for women will feel safe when they are to be born. Worst of all, it can be life and death. The fact that as many as 77 municipalities do not have an accompanying service for women by way of travel over 90 minutes is totally unacceptable, and we must give priority to ensuring these women the accompanying service they already require. Responsibility for the accompanying service and the necessary preparedness for birth and pregnancy were transferred to healthcare establishments on 1 January 2010, in line with the responsibility for other medical services, including ambulance services. The service shall be organised in cooperation between the local health service and the specialist health service, but there is now a high degree of uncertainty about the proper functioning of this cooperation. I am therefore pleased that in 2019 the Minister of Health commissioned health regions to monitor the follow-up service, with a deadline for reporting in March 2020. The proportion of unplanned births outside the institution has been stable since 1999 and is between 0.6 and 0.7 pst. The maximum number — it has been said before — of such births takes place in central strata. For example, 79 children were born unplanned outside the Oslo and Akershus institutions, while the corresponding figures for Finnmark and Sogn and Fjordane were 8 and 13. There have also been concerns about how the travel distance actually is calculated. The 2020 mission document will clarify that 90 minutes is an indicative limit, which must be calculated from the actual residence pattern, not the location of the municipality centre. Norway is one of the safest countries in the world to be born, but we have no one to lose. Therefore, we should continue to work to reduce the number of unplanned births outside the institution and make it safe for women with a long journey to the food supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1076	I am promoting our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1081	The representative of Nicholas Wilkinson has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1087	Regional health businesses are responsible for accompanying services and a well-functioning accompanying service is important for the safety of the child. Like the proposers, I am not satisfied that the health regions have not been able to provide a good enough follow-up service. In this year's mission document, I have therefore provided health regions with a clear indication that healthcare companies will have the accompanying service in place. I have also clarified that 90 minutes is an indicative limit that must be calculated from the actual housing pattern, not the location of the municipality centre. The requirement in the accompanying mission document must also be seen in the context of the Directorate-General for Health's mission to highlight the significance of changes in the complexity of maternity care for staff and funding systems. The proposal for a representative proposes to provide health care establishments with a statutory obligation to provide follow-up services to birthables with more than 60 minutes of travel to their place of birth. Like the majority of the Health and Care Committee and the members of the Workers' Party, I am surprised that the Centre Party is proposing a 60-minute requirement before the 90-minute requirement has been met, thus putting an even greater pressure on the midwifery services in the districts. With regard to parts of the proposal to provide healthcare undertakings with a statutory obligation to provide accompanying services, my assessment is that the overall framework for accompanying services has been ensured through statutory obligations and professional soundness requirements in the law and through the requirements of the Health Directorate's professional guide. Therefore, the most appropriate instrument is to impose requirements on health regions in the 2020 mission document. There is no doubt that regional health companies are responsible for the accompanying service, but I would like to stress that the accompanying service is based on cooperation between the local health service and the specialist health service, with prehospital services such as medical services and ambulances and municipal midwives. The key to ensuring the safety of the natives is a good local midwife shelter and follow-up service for those with a long route. With closer follow-up of pregnant women, we can capture multiple pregnancies with complications and pregnancies where there is a risk of birth complications, or that the birth will happen quickly and unexpectedly. That's one of the reasons why we're now focusing on increasing the number of midwives in the municipalities, a bet that has given good results. This is how we ensure that women with long journeys to the place of birth are accompanied by midwife.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1102	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1107	As we discussed in the debate, we received a review – carried out by VG – in the summer of 2019, which pointed out that 77 municipalities did not have a good enough follow-up service per day. The number of municipalities may have decreased from the new year, but there are other reasons for this than that women have received a better follow-up service. We expressed our wish at the time that the Council of State should explain the situation, and not least that he should explain what measures would be taken to improve the situation in these 77 municipalities. So now the Council of State has a chance to: How will the Council of State explain the situation, and what immediate action can we expect?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1114	As we've been told, I already commissioned the health regions to investigate the situation in advance of VG's investigation. Then VG came to us in the bargain. Then I said very clearly that when they could show that result, I was going to follow this directly up in the mission paper for 2020. So have I. This means that health regions now have a clear mission – to establish a better follow-up service, which is in line with the professional requirements that exist, among other things. in the Director-General for Health. The most important contribution is to make sure that there are actually midwives who can do this job. The government has taken a big leap to strengthen the midwifery services of municipalities. It's still going to be 40 million. kr of the health care allowance is earmarked for midwifery. If any of these municipalities lack a midwife service, they will have the opportunity to receive support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1121	We are excited to follow the situation more closely as the commission was given for 2020. I hope the situation improves quickly. One of the measures proposed by the Workers' Party in the budget of the year, which we are quite satisfied with ourselves, is a grant scheme to give all midwives in the community health service a full position. Many point out that it is part of the vulnerability of the midwifery. It is about having to be on the alert 24 hours a day when a woman is going to give birth, even if they may have only a small percentage of jobs initially. I wondered if the Council of State could give an assessment of the Workers' Party's good proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1128	I fully agree that we should strive for the most possible full-time jobs, full-time jobs. But because the government has a piece left before we have succeeded in the municipal reform, there are probably some municipalities that are so small that they don't necessarily have a basis to offer it. I think that a perhaps even better solution than having a 100 pst position in a municipality, is to have shared positions between the municipalities and the health company, as we do, for example. look has worked very well in the west, in Health Förde. It is a very good system that ensures both the entire position of the midwives, which ensures good cooperation between the hospitals and the municipalities, and which contributes to the pregnancy being followed by the same midwife both during pregnancy and childbirth and after birth. That's one of the models that we want more people to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1135	Now it is the case that the Workers' Party's proposal is linked to the individual midwife and that each midwife should have a full position, so that it becomes attractive – not necessarily that each municipality should have a full position regardless of the size of the municipality. Divided positions can definitely be a solution to raise both the proportion of the job and the quality. The question is, how does the Council of State view funding here? There has been one of the jumping points when the follow-up service discussion has come up, that there has been a conflict about who is going to pick up the bill. Can the Council of State confirm that it is the health undertaking that is obliged to finance this, or how does he foresee that this will take place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1142	Clearly, the health region is responsible for the accompanying service. It was when the Workers' Party was in government that change was made. It was ensured that it was the health region that was given this responsibility where this service had previously been financed by popular security. So I mean it's very clear and clear. But, of course, it is an advantage that health regions in several places make good agreements with municipalities about this. One of the things I have responded to is that there are municipalities that have wanted agreements with the health care company to improve the follow-up service, which have not obtained that type of agreement. Of course, I do not think that is acceptable, and I expect that now to be followed up as a result of the 2020 mission paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1147	At the hearing of the Committee of Norwegian Nurses and the Federation of midwives, they wrote that they are aware that a number of places are now based on a spirit of voluntary effort to resolve the situation. Among other things, I think we can see Nord-Møre, where one midwife has been in charge since 2018, and the stipulated need is at least six midwives in a tour. When it is clear that this is the responsibility of healthcare professionals, how can the Minister of Health explain that for so many years a health agency has not taken responsibility for the follow-up service, and that one must base itself on voluntary efforts by midwives who take responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1152	The answer to that is – paragraph 1 – that I have not accepted the way this has been handled in the past, and therefore I have given a completely new and clear mandate on this in 2020. So long before this became a matter, the government has been very clear that we believe that we took over a situation in Norwegian maternity care with a severe undercovering of midwives in the municipalities. That's what's been our main priority to straighten out after eight years of red-green rule. This means that we have now increased the number of midwifery works by 46,2 p.m. by the end of 2017, from 279 to 408 annual works. This development continued in 2019, and we still have earmarked funds in 2020, 40 million. kr, which is earmarked for midwifery. We expect positive developments to continue. It is a prerequisite that there are midwives outside the municipalities who can do that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1159	The experience that it is not legal, as we are now proposing, is that healthcare professionals do not respect the responsibility of healthcare professionals, and not least experience is that they at least refuse to pay for it and push it over to the municipalities. That's a lot of examples. Is this not such an important responsibility for the specialist services that it should be anchored in e.g. specialist health services law? Our reasoning is that it is not useful to include this again in the mission document – it has been done many times before. In fact, it has to be legalized as a specialist health service task. Otherwise, you'll see that what's evolved in the last few years is just going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1165	No, the assignment I have given now in 2020 has not been given before, so it is not right that it has been tried before without working. Paragraph 2: We believe that a proper follow-up service is already part of the legal requirement. Both the Municipal Health Service Act and the Special Health Service Act impose an obligation to provide a proper offer to birthers. This is part of this, while there is also a guide to the Health Directorate, which one of course should also follow. So it's like the Center Party in the parties talks is talking about a trust reform in health, but in the main hall, the Center Party is the leading exponent to regulate in detail every thing that's going to happen in health care, with regulations and laws. That is the opposite of the reform of trust, which the party is talking about nicely in party speeches.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1174	Yes, the Center Party will go a long way to securing women's rights and health care, and we will go a long way to securing women's demands for security for a good follow-up service. When we know that with this government there have been even more municipalities that have more than 1.5 hours to the birthplace, the following actually means a lot. When we see that this, which is a recommended requirement for businesses, is not followed up, we think we should better control from the Stortinget's side. The Council of State has doubts as to whether this is actually to be financed by health professionals. The Council of State says that it is the responsibility of the health agency, but can he confirm that the follow-up service is to be financed by the health agency?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1181	First, it's like the Center Party won't just go far to control in detail when it comes to birthing women. Had they reserved that attitude only to the offer of birthing women, there would have been some understanding of the argument, but the problem is that the Center Party is going in to go far in ruling in detail on behalf of any interest related to health in this society. This means that the Central Party is a continuous proposer of a number of representative proposals and legislative proposals that are exactly the opposite of what the party is talking about when they are talking in headlines, namely a trust reform in healthcare. Had it been such that it was reserved for this particular patient group, this would have held. But it's something that the Center Party believes consistently almost in every case, that the Storting should regulate more and more of what's going on in healthcare. That is de facto the opposite of a trust reform. Health regions are responsible for accompanying services. It also involves the responsibility for funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1188	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1195	In this case, we have not received much support from the other parties in Stortinget, but we have received clear support from the Nurses' Association and the Federation of midwives, which recommends that healthcare professionals be given an obligation to secure midwife care and provide follow-up services to all births who have more than 60 minutes of travel from their home to their birthplace. They indicate that this is based on new research-based knowledge. We have also done well in our proposal. In the setting of this case, proposal No. 1, which the Centre Party shares with the Workers' Party and SV, to ensure that the compliance service is part of the statutory cooperation agreements. There was something that came as a recording in the earring, and I'm glad that one has received support for it. But it doesn't think it should be part of the statutory cooperation agreements. I think it is unlikely important that the companies now realize the seriousness, and that they are given a statutory obligation to provide the follow-up service. That is also why we have split our proposal from the vote and instead take it as two separate proposals, so that perhaps more people can agree with us when this is the case today. So there is one proposal, no. 4, where we ask the government to make proposals to legislate the health care provider's obligation to provide follow-up services for the birth, and one proposal, no. 5, that the Stortinget asks the government to ensure that regional health care providers provide follow-up services to all births with more than 60 minutes of travel from their home to their birthplace. Then the Central Party will also vote in favour of proposal No. 3, from SV in the settings. I think it's wrong that many people now refer to it as if the requirement today has a limit of 90 minutes. I tried to do something in my first post because when Stortinget decided this in 2010, it was clear that it was from a 1-1.5 hour limit, and not as a minimum limit of 1.5 hours, as it is practiced in healthcare professionals today. For example, women with about an hour’s journey may hardly be able to get a follow - up service. So we mean that the 60-minute limit is nothing new. It's a follow-up to what has always been the Storting's intention for the follow-up service, and now there's documented knowledge that makes it extra important to establish it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1204	I'm just taking the floor for a brief explanation of vote. We are going to support proposal No. 4 but not proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1211	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1228	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be an opportunity for a replacement of lines with up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1237	It is a key objective of our transport policy that accidents with fatal and severe damage should not occur in the transport sector. In this case, the government proposes forensic autopsy of all killers in order to gain more knowledge and information about the cause of fatal road accidents. These proposals will be put forward on the basis of the proposals of a working group set up by the Ministry of Transport, which delivered its report in April 2018. The Ministry suggests that the police be required to ensure that the autopsy of all traffic victims is performed, but that the perpetrator has a limited right to oppose such autopsy. A narrow rule of exception is proposed for close relatives to refuse forensic autopsy associated with religious or life-seeking over-interpretation. The reason why the exemption system has been narrowed is that there is an important need for increased knowledge of cause and effect, while, with the exception of religious over-interpretation and outlook on life, ensuring a practice in line with the European Commission on Human Rights, Article 9. A single committee endorses this assessment. The Ministry also proposes that the legal structure of the day be maintained, supplemented by a new rule of duty for the police in the Autopsy Act to ensure that all traffic fatalities are forensically outsourced. A Joint Committee also agrees with this assessment. The Ministry suggests that the current practice of sending the autopsy report to the accident analysis team be enshrined in law. The autopsy report contains mandatory health information from health professionals. Difor, it's important to have a clear code of law. The Ministry does not propose to the working group to introduce a code of conduct for the accident analysis group to have access to health information on the traffic-killed person in addition to the autopsy report. Instead, it is proposed that a new prescription be made in the Autopsy Act stating that the autopsy doctor should have access to the necessary health information on the road user without regard to the fact that information is subject to an obligation to carry out an autopsy. The Committee supports this. In order to obtain responsibility, it is proposed to regulate the accident analysis activities of the State Road Administration in the Road Traffic Act, which is also supported by the Committee. In the setting, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have a minority comment that routines and guidelines must be established so that the proposal for a new right to obtain health information does not result in access to health information more than in the past. A single committee points out that the introduction of a law enforcement obligation must be fully financed, so that other important tasks in the police and health services are not prejudiced. The Committee also points to the need for the recruitment and training of obsessives and forensic practitioners. There is a joint committee behind the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1258	It is now proposed to carry out forensic autopsy of all fatalities in road traffic. Traffic safety work in the last decades has been largely successful, but at the same time we are still not in the goal of zero vision. More knowledge about the causes of road accidents with serious outcomes is good in order to contribute to new knowledge, learning and prevention, but a forensic autopsy of all road fatalities is at the same time an intervention against both the deceased and the relatives – relatives who are already in a state of unbridled grief. So it might be that it can feel good that it is done what is possible to get all the answers to what really happened, and that his death can be used to learn, so that one might save lives in the future. At the same time, we must take into account that it can be experienced as a significant burden if your child or spouse is to be obsessed in spite of their own wishes and not least the death. A narrow rule of exception is proposed for the immediate relatives to refuse forensic autopsy, but the exemption must then be linked to religious or life-seeking beliefs. The Workers' Party has been with both the government parties and the rest of the Committee on that note, but at the same time we also have to assume that people have no less feelings even if they do not have such a religious or life-seeking belief. For me, this is perhaps the most difficult dilemma in this case: Is it that someone then gets fewer rights when it comes to the question of autopsy than others? This is probably the case when we make decisions in this case, and I think we should take on board ourselves and respect that there are others in a difficult situation that now has no possibility of reservation. Another concern in this case has been the question of access to health information. People who are in a difficult situation in life must be able to be confident that sensitive information about their loved ones will not be shared with more than what is most necessary. That is why I am pleased that an overall committee has been very clear on this. As the representative Toppe was also involved, the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV have a separate comment on that issue. This is a matter that contains some ethical dilemmas that we're going to take seriously. At the same time, we have a commitment to do everything we can to further reduce the number of road fatalities. If only one person avoids becoming part of the statistics on traffic deaths due to the decisions we take today, this matter has served its purpose in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1271	Several transport organisations are concerned about whether we have enough knowledge to put in place the right measures to achieve the objectives of zero damaged and killed in traffic. Each killed in traffic has, in addition to the loss of a human life, a high socio-economic cost, and we have no one to lose. Knowledge and correct statistics enable us to better manage proper prevention and traffic action. A good step on the road is the working group's proposal for a new provision in the Road Traffic Act which prejudges the task of the Road Safety Analysis Group of the State and that the government follow up the proposal by proposing that this be regulated by the Road Traffic Act. In the balance between correct knowledge and access to sensitive information, I would like to refer to the comment of the minority in the Committee that the intention of the proposal cannot be that more people have access to silent information. One must always ask for the purpose and maintain privacy. With regard to the right of reservation, we believe that knowledge is so important that that right must be undermined. We have another problem that is not about autopsy, and it concerns a group of traffic damage that is not available in Norwegian statistics, because they are not recorded. It is likely that ten times as many vulnerable road users are seriously injured in traffic as official statistics should have. If we had reported the way they do in Sweden, we could have discovered a lot more accidents. At St. Olav's hospital in Trondheim, they had a trial project a few years ago to monitor damaged cyclists and pedestrians. This ended because it cost too much. Several researchers believe that Norway could have achieved great benefits by bringing the darkness figures to light. I would therefore ask that the Minister of Health also look at what is being registered and reported. This change costs health care a lot of dollars, but it will save society and damage traffic for a lot of stress and heavy costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1286	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox So today's map is ready to debate. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1310	Let's go to voting. The storing first goes to voting on case No. 5 as from Thursday 30 January 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1322	A total of 26 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-14, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 15, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 16–23, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 24–26, from Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Party of Advancement There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a new comprehensive and binding escalation plan for children and young people’s mental health.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1354	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all children carry out a compulsory test of Norwegian knowledge during a four-year check.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1369	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that municipalities follow up children who are not subject to age-related health checks.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1386	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16–22, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose measures to tighten up the absence of temporary employment in the event of absence.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a specific requirement for staffing for kindergartens with particularly long opening hours, such as opening hours of more than 10,5 hours per day.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to go through existing evidence base to look at the overall impact of the use of school tests on the mental health of students.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and introduce attractive parental training as an offer to all families with children’. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a coordination model to provide young people with a comprehensive digital trajectory from low-threshold health-promoting information services to full digital healthcare.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen the funding of the school health services and health centres, including the designation of funds for the service for the entire school cycle during an escalation period.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The government is asking the government to establish a low-threshold mental health service for children, young people and families in all municipalities. The measures can be implemented through the establishment of the family house and/or other easily accessible services. Services must be multi-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary in order to ensure good and complete services for children, young people and families.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1437	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to draw up a public inquiry into the rights of children and young people as dependants.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1454	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is calling for a new proposal for a concrete, committed and comprehensive escalation plan aimed at reducing the prevalence of violence in close relations, and at strengthening the protection of children exposed to violence and abuse, following the model of the mental health escalation plan. The plan shall ensure a multidisciplinary scope of actions, good coordination and a long-term commitment to increased funding and earmarked resources.’;» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1471	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–14, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide a report on student health.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the standard of living in kindergartens, which looks at whether municipalities and private owners have applied the norm according to their intention, whether the funding is sufficient and provides a knowledge base to help determine what changes should be made, if any, to ensure that the standard becomes a good quality tool.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new child care survey to update information on children’s residence in the nursery and when children are in kindergarten during the day of kindergarten, and to assess the need for changes in the standard of living associated with this.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to extend the purpose of health centre and school health services to include treatment and follow-up for mental and somatic disorders.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government asks the government to submit a child health reform in line with a proposal in NOU 2016:16.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for all plans and decisions in health establishments to weaken or lay down district psychiatric centres and/or paediatric psychiatric outpatient clinics to be put on hold until the Grand Duchy has addressed a new national health and hospital plan.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a learning network/development centre for health station and school health services.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to eliminate the excess of the majority of the members of the board of directors of young people up to the age of 18 years’. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a statutory obligation for municipalities to appoint an agency responsible for coordinating assistance services for vulnerable children and young people in the municipality.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a provision in the statutory cooperation agreements between the municipal health and health services and the specialist health services ensuring cooperation on vulnerable children and young people who need services from both levels.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the general legalisation of children and young people’s rights to coordinated services and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to be open so that health care providers can refer to the BUP.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a system to measure quality of life in line with the recommendations of the Health Directorate’s report ‘Good Life in Norway’.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1552	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a pilot project in which health care providers can refer children and young people to Child and Youth psychiatry [[BUP]] The Right, Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1576	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1590	Has anyone voted wrong? Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1602	The size goes on to voting over today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1642	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1661	It is voted on by representatives from Dag Terje Andersen, Eva Kristin Hansen, Magne Rommetveit, Freddy André Øvstegård and Hans Inge Myrvold. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting the immediate transmission of a document from the meeting of the Council of State Anniken Hauglie and the Director of the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, Sigrun Vågeng, on 25 October 2019.’ The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1685	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Olav Urbø on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-7, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to propose 80 pst at the latest before the submission of the State budget for 2021. State funding of the crisis centre offer through earmarked funds.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose to amend Section 2 of the Crisis Centres Act in order to introduce requirements for sufficient proximity to the nearest crisis centre offer, so that geographical coverage is in line with and further regulates the crisis centre offer as a low threshold offer.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to amend Section 2 of the Crisis Centre Act to introduce requirements for lucky day crews.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose the introduction of a general regulatory home in the Crisis Centre Act and to lay down a quality standard to further regulate: a. implementing the requirement of physical separation; b. Competence requirements, including pediatric competence; c. the length of the stay at the emergency centres must be adapted to the time it takes to provide the violent support and necessary assistance for re-establishment; d. the content of the follow-up during the re-establishment phase.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1740	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the male crisis centre offer and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government in particular to ensure that the crisis centre for the Sami indigenous population is improved and to provide appropriate information on the size of the population.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1764	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortingen with an overall review of the crisis centre offer.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1788	Behind the advice is the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1802	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1807	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1812	We'll fix it. At this point, the Committee's position was approved by 55 votes to 51. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1826	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party The President shall state that the proposals: 4 and 5 replaces proposal No. 2 in the setting. There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that regional health establishments provide accompanying services to all birthers who have more than 60 minutes of travel from their place of residence to their place of birth.’; Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1857	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to legislate on the obligations of health establishments to provide follow-up services for birth seekers.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1874	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked immediately to comply with the accompanying service requirement when the journey is more than 90 minutes from place of residence to place of birth, and to proceed as soon as possible with the implementation of a 60-minute requirement.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1891	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure, in an appropriate manner, that the accompanying services for birthers become part of the statutory cooperation agreements between municipalities and health enterprises, as stated. health and care services law § 6-2.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e1916	The President assumes that the Central Party and Red want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e2113	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e2123	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-04.ana.ud25e2148	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
