ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e32	The President will propose, on behalf of the Presidency, that the gallery be closed at today's meeting on the basis of strictly necessary measures to protect the disease. The President will stress that the Presidency is fully aware of the importance of transparency and publicity, and that any such decision must be taken for each meeting in the Grand Duchy. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. As the representatives were made aware at the entrance to the hall at the start of the meeting, the President will remember that one does not need to sit in his own place, but make sure to have an appropriate distance from one another. The same is true when we come to the debate. You can draw on the list of speakers by raising your hand. So you don't have to draw from your place as you normally do. To draw a line, use the V-sign. The President will come back to how this is to be done in voting. The representative Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The appointed alternate of Finnmark, Anne Karin Olli, is now taking the seat. There is a communication from the Centre Party’s Grand-Group and from the Right’s Grand-Group that the permits granted to the representatives of Nils T. Bjørke and Tage Pettersen, respectively, from 14 January to 3 April, are amended until 19 March and that the period from 16 to 19 March is converted into a welfare permit. – These messages are taken into account. There is an application for welfare leave from the following representatives: by Mr Hans Andreas Limi, on 16 March and until further notice by Himanshu Gulati 16-29. March by Bente Stein Mathisen, 16–23. March by Mr Lise Christoffersen, on 16 March and until further notice by Michael Tetzschner, 16–24. March by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on 16 March from the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, 16 March until further notice by Mr Lene Westgaard-Halle, on 16 March and until further notice by Mr Injerd Schou 16-18. March These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From other alternates of Akershus, Ole-Jacob Johansen, from other alternates of Oslo, Kristoffer Robin Haug, from other alternates of Oslo, Mats A. Kirkebirkeland, from the first alternates of Vestfold, Renate Sölversen Berge and from other alternates of Østfold, Thor Edquist, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the respective representatives of Himanshu Gulati, Une Bastholm, Astrid Nyklebye Heiberg, Lene Westgaard-Halle and Tage Pettersen's leave of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus: Liv Gustavsen 16 March and until further notice Anette Carnarius Elseth 16-29. March Kjartan Berland 16-23. March For Buskerud: Niclas Tokerud 16 March and until further notice For Oslo: Hulda Holtvedt 16 March and until further notice Yassine Arakia 16-24. March For Telemark: Stine Margrethe Knutsdatter Olsen 16 March For Vestfold: Lozan Balisany 16 March and until further notice Henning Wold 16 March and until further notice For Østfold: Rolf-Jonas Ringen Kristiansen 16-18. March
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e210	Liv Gustavsen, Anette Carnarius Elseth, Kjartan Berland, Niclas Tokerud, Hulda Holtvedt, Yassine Arakia, Stine Margrethe Knutsdatter Olsen, Lozan Balisany, Henning Wold and Rolf-Jonas Ring Kristiansen are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 13 March 2020: ‘The City Council was held at Oslo Castle on 13 March 2020 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Trine Skei Grande is pardoned. Mr Guri Melby is appointed Minister of State and takes over the Board of Directors of the Policy for Kindergartens, Primary Schools, Secondary Education and Integration and the Administrative Responsibility for the Ministry of Knowledge. The Ministry of Knowledge is run by two constitutionally responsible state councils. The division of responsibility for work laid down in the Royal Resolution of 24 January 2020 between Trine Skei Grande and Henrik Asheim State Council is also established between Guri Melby State Council and Henrik Asheim State Council. The division of responsibility for laws laid down in the Royal Resolution of 14 February 2020 between Trine Skei Grande Government Council and Henrik Asheim State Council is also established between Guri Melby State Council and Henrik Asheim State Council. Government Councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaken's temporary Management Board for Fisheries and Seafood in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries ceases to exist. State Secretary Odd Emil Ingebreichsen is pardoned as Secretary of State of the Council of Tina Bru in the Ministry of Oil and Energy and is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the Board of Fisheries and Maritime Food in the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries is run by two constitutionally responsible state councils. The division of responsibility for work laid down in the Royal Resolution of 24 January 2020 between the Council of State of Iselin Nybø and the Council of State of Geir Inge Sivertsen is also underpinned by the Council of State of Iselin Nybø and the Council of State of Odd Emil Ingebrichtsen. State Secretary Jan Christian Kolstø is appointed Secretary of State Trine Skei Grande in the Ministry of Knowledge and is re-appointed Secretary of State for the Council of State Iselin Nybø in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries. State Secretary Anja Johansen is pardoned as State Secretary of the State Council Trine Skei Grande in the Ministry of Knowledge and is re-appointed State Secretary of the Guri Melby State Council of the Ministry of Knowledge. State Secretary Grunde Kreek Almeland is pardoned as State Secretary for the State Council Trine Skei Grande in the Ministry of Knowledge and is re-appointed as State Secretary in 50 per cent position for the Council of State Guri Melby in the Ministry of Knowledge and as State Secretary in 50 per cent position for the Council of State Iselin Nybø in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. State Secretary Trine Danielsen is hereby dismissed as Secretary of State of the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries and is hereby re-appointed State Secretary of the Council of State Odd Emil Ingebrichtsen of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries. These amendments shall take effect from 13 March 2020 at the latest. 1300.’» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Council of State changes the following changes in the composition of the Storting: the former member of the government, Trine Skei Grande, has taken the seat as a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e267	In the light of the special situation we are in, on behalf of the presidency, the President will make an oral statement on the setting up of a special committee to deal with specific issues relating to the Korona crisis, cf. Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy § 18. The Presidency proposes that the Committee be composed of the President of Stortinget and one representative of each party group. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will also inform you that, in addition to the announced meeting in Stortinget on Thursday 19 March, there may be several days of meeting this week. The President therefore asks the representatives to be prepared to meet in Stortinget at short notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e315	Case No. 2 and 3 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e344	The President will organise the debate as follows: The debate starts with speeches by the parliamentary leaders or one representative of each party and members of the government, all with a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, then 14 speeches of up to 3 minutes, so distributed among the parties: Working Party three posts, Right three posts, Party two posts, Party two posts, Party two posts, Party two posts, Party two posts left one post, Party one post, Party one post. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to eight rows of replies will be given after contributions by members of the Government. The President will also open up an unlimited number of speeches to the parliamentary leaders. Then, as mentioned, you can draw yourself on the list of speakers by raising your hand. So you don't have to draw from your place as you normally do. In order to draw a line, you use the V sign. The President will also, if necessary, pause the debate before putting a final line.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e361	This is the first day of a new week in which every woman and man in Norway experience a new day of work. We're being tested now, and we're going to show what lives in us. Together, we mobilise the entire community to fight against the spread of coronary infection. Most importantly: Together, we prepare for those who work in the first line – in hospitals, in hospitals, in hospitals, at the hospital, at the hospital, in home care – to assist those who get seriously ill, and all those who are going to be. We are responsible for making their demanding job possible, that they have the money to help the sick, treat them well, and not least do everything possible to secure their equipment to protect them from infection. Today we present a historical consensus in Stortinget. All the parties agree on a powerful package to support those who are hit out in the workplace: those who are permised, lose their jobs or no more jobs or orders, not because they have done a bad job, but because large parts of the economy stop – at the hotel, in aviation, at the workshop. It hits the company owner, hairdresser, taxi driver, musician and many other employers and employees. Many go into difficult times when bills are to be paid and the economy is to go to. They need to know that the community is there for them. Let's set it up. The measures are comprehensive and costly, but not to act will increase the burden and costs in the long term. We are now implementing a duty of solidarity to – to repeat the most important thing – fight the spread of infection. Those who bear our health care receive everyone's support, so that the most vulnerable get treatment and care. It is important for social solidarity. But it has serious consequences for many people at work in their everyday lives. That is why we must be solidarity with those who are being affected. We've listened to a lot of recordings, from the social partners and women and men around the country. Thank you for making contact. Keep it going. It's going to be a short way from everyday life out there to what we decide here on the Stortinget. This has been the motivation of the Workers' Party: the community ensures that those who are most vulnerable to the starting point are given security and predictability. We have wanted to bring together parties to a successful outcome for them – that those with the lowest pay and those who experience the greatest insecurity for their job are taken care of, that apprentices, low pay and workers across the country get better arrangements by permitting, that parents who have to be at home get better care arrangements, that those who run their own store get security, that payments of taxes and taxes are postponed. The mechanisms we agree on today do not solve all the problems – we are aware of that – but we take strong measures to make it possible to get through the crisis, and we are ready to do more as the needs respond. I would like to thank the opposition parties on Stortinget – different as they are – for putting aside differences and bringing together the most important thing: to stand together for a more social profile on the package that came from the government, and what we now have for decision. The majority of Stortinget has set a standard. It's a commitment. I would like to thank the government parties, who have met us with open and honest negotiations. That we – all the parties at Stortinget – can be gathered should be an important signal for the weeks and months to come. I think it is important to stress that this very demanding situation does not hit Norway alone. Countries around the world are now taking extensive steps to combat the spread of infection and to assist their own. A pandemic is global – this crisis is global and hits people all over the world. At the same time, we need to know that we will get through the crisis. It might get tough on the road, but there, the activity's going to start again. Everyday life will be more normal. We want to get out of the quarantine. We will be able to act and travel and live our lives in all their diversity. We want to go to the many offers of cultural life. What we're doing today is going to help make the path to this normal everyday life a little shorter, less painful and safe for those who are hit hardest. There is solidarity at its best in Norway. Finally, I address the proposals that we have come up with in a way that can be implemented in accordance with the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e384	The representative Gahr Støre has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President will ensure that the proposals are multiplied and distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e391	Norway is in a crisis situation, and then it is important that we, as a national Parliament, gather on broad solutions. In times of crisis, we stand together here in Norway. On Friday, the government presented a first crisis package. After that, the government has submitted further measures, at the latest yesterday a loan package of at least 100 billion. kr to help business. Now it's about keeping the wheels going as well as it can be done. Where it is not possible, the country and the community must provide for enterprises, for workers, for self-employed workers and for freelancers who lose the possibility of income from the corona virus. I am pleased that an overall increase is coming together on measures of a very large scale. What is important now is that the decisions we are making today are translated into action. This will require extraordinary efforts by skilled staff in Nav and other state agencies. I hope that Nav and the other agencies will be able to implement the measures that have now been adopted. But it is necessary to clarify that they will face major challenges with the changes that are now being made. I ask that Nav get the necessary resources, and that it also take into account that these are so big changes that it will require an extraordinary amount of Nav in particular. The representative Gahr Støre has presented the proposals that we have all agreed on. As far as I'm concerned, the finance committee has been negotiating this weekend. I think it's wonderful that you've managed to gather on such broad solutions. This is a more comprehensive package than the government submitted on Friday, but the situation has also changed since Friday. It is important now that we are in a dynamic situation where new measures will be presented on an ongoing basis. The measures that we have now put forward will improve performance. This will reduce the burden on employers, and the state will prepare and take a large part of the bill. I have received many enquiries through the weekend – from large and small businesses, from cultural workers, hairdressers, family businesses and export businesses. We don't solve everything now, we don't know how long this will last, but one thing you who are concerned can now know: Storing and government will stand up to take us through this crisis, and I hope we can stand together about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e404	It has been working well and intensely this weekend. First the four largest opposition parties gathered together, then we also had a very constructive dialogue with the government parties, and I'm glad that. I believe that in the situation we are in now, it is a strength for Norway that our citizens out there see that we are able to gather in times of crisis and find good answers. For this reason, everyone – I have experienced – has also taken care of every hedgehog and tried to gather around the actions that are taking the best. Of course, all of us have been bombarded with reports from very concerned people – business leaders, self-employed, workers, low-paid – and I believe that, in sum, we have come up with solutions that help to eliminate anxiety and uncertainty, because that is perhaps what has been the biggest problem for many people now: having experienced a huge uncertainty about how to meet the state of emergency in which the country is in. The measures we are now bringing together also help to reduce the burden on too many, while obviously they also help to improve the liquidity of many companies that are normally healthy, healthy, but that have come into an extraordinary situation as a result of this pandemic. I also want to say that this will challenge Nav. We're all aware of that. There is also a state of emergency in large parts of the public sector, and measures have also been taken there. I have a great deal of understanding that this is going to be demanding to manage and make practical arrangements, so that it leads to good payments for people. We trust that we are now working on explosions at all Nav employees, but I understand that the situation is very challenging. There have been questions about the price tag on this. Yes, these are expensive measures – there is no doubt about it. But on the other hand, it would probably be much more expensive not to take strong action at this stage. Once again, when the pandemic is over at some point, we can't be in a situation where we leave ourselves a business in ruins, that normally healthy businesses go over the edge because the state hasn't set up when the state has financial muscles to do it. I honestly believe that this would have been much more expensive if we hadn't taken action now, and we have as state financial muscles to do this. If at one point our wallet is to be used, it is now. I am pleased that we have had improvements in terms of both permancy rules, sick pay and care allowance, and that we have better solutions for self-employed and freelancers, who would have been very well on the ground without these measures. The fact that we are postponing the VAT due on 15 April, that we are postponing the payment of advance taxes due on 15 April, and that we are reducing the low VAT rate from 12 pst. to 8 pst. – it’s clear that this means something. I was also happy when the Prime Minister yesterday announced a postponement of the employer's fee. It's been one of the recordings that we've been at most obviously had to get in place because it hits wide and concerns all, most of the businesses. It is good that the government has listened and signaled the will to do this. As far as aviation is concerned, there is still a need to do more, and we have to keep working on it. That's what's the reality of what we're doing now. We have now dealt with a good deal of things urgently and have contributed to a strong reinforcement of emergency measures. Are we done with this? No – we have to work a lot in the future to ensure answers to the unresolved and unanswered questions. But right now we've been able to put in place acute, effective measures, and I'm very happy that all the parties have gathered around.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e421	There has been a special seriousness about the work in Stortinget this weekend. It has been a serious matter that has shaped the parties from MDG and Red to the Advance Party. You can imagine the people -- the families who have an uncertainty about how mom or dad gets out of office, the families who are nervous about the income, the self-employed taxi driver, the hairdresser or others who do their own business and suddenly have zero income. You can imagine the seriousness of the business owner who is afraid that the company, which he has worked up over maybe a generation, can go bankrupt in a short time. What's nice about Norway, the great thing about the Norwegian political system, is that when crises strike, we lift together, and we lift together across party boundaries. We help each other, and we work as a community and a community. We cannot get enough stressed thanks to all those who are working now – at shops, with the pressure that is there, working in slaughterhouses, working in health care, all the cleaners, all the drivers, all those who are now holding the wheels around Norway. We say that we at Stortinget have made a joint effort today and this weekend, but it's all the people out there who really do the job. But I think thanks to the work we've done together, across party boundaries, across divisions, things will do a little less evil. It's going to be demanding anyway, but it's going to be a little bit less bad. Only when it comes to people: it's clear that when we change the permit law, that you get full compensation for 20 days, it's still that after 20 days you lose more than one third of your income. Very demanding. Many people lose more too, because it's thanks to 6G. It gets tough for many when they lose that income so fast. But because we as a community here in Stortingen now increase this to 20 days, it's at least a little less evil than when you lose it after three days. For self-employed people, who are completely innocent up there, who lose their income base from one day to another, we have had no such income insurance scheme. We've got a sick paycheck. And what's nice about the Norwegian political system is that we've used together the creativity between government parties and opposition and found out that we're going to try to build on the sick pay scheme, that is, that business gets zero in income for the first 16 days, that's pretty rough from one day to another, but then they get at least about 80 pst. income hedge from day 16. And the reason why I'm saying "on the ground" is that we had a meeting with Nav yesterday, and they say straight out to us: it's very difficult to make so many changes in the short term. We all have to understand that, because Nav has to carry out these great grips. So we as big ones have to help. But we've at least found a system now that will help. The last really big, heavy grip we're doing today is what we're doing for our businesses. It's clear that now, as a community, when we're going to take so much of the medical bill, so much of the care bill, it's a huge relief for our businesses. And it's clear that if we're going to get through this crisis, we're totally dependent on having businesses on the other side. So even though this alone helps businesses, it helps all workers around Norway. It ensures jobs, it ensures that we have a well-functioning business even when this crisis is over. The two steps we take in terms of sickness and care money are enormously expensive. But we have then chosen, across all the party boundaries, that we should jointly take the stock instead of individuals, individual families and individual companies taking it. It's the strength of the nation state of Norway, it's the strength of the community we have. I want to end by saying, when in such a short time, as a political community, we are able to encircle ourselves, set ourselves aside, sit down and help each other, we are going to do this together. There's going to be many laps in Stortinget. I have a molested base tone when I think about all the people who are being hit, but then I have an optimistic base tone on behalf of our people's government and our political system when in such a short time we are able to get around, where no one is trying to pin on each other, and everyone wants to help each other – together. That's what we're going to do today. We're going to work together. We have to work a lot together in the next few months. Let's hope that this crisis will be as short-lived as possible and that as a community, as a national assembly, we will mitigate the crisis for people as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e438	Our society and our community are put on a test that we haven't experienced before. We must all show solidarity and take care of each other. We're behind the government in the fight against the virus. In the fight against the economic crisis, there has also been a need to do something on the Stortinget, a need for faster action, and we now have a broad consensus on a more powerful and social crisis package. The fact that the opposition parties gathered across what usually divides us has been crucial to achieve this. I would like to thank the other opposition parties for open, confidential and constructive cooperation, and I would like to thank the government parties for meeting us constructively. A virtue is not a virtue if the burdens are not fairly distributed, and it would be a lack of breath if they were to take with the smallest or most uncertain incomes the toughest noise. Workers shall not pay the price of the crisis. Now we have an agreement that distributes the burdens more fairly. In a time of great uncertainty, economic security is crucial. It doesn't mean that this isn't still going to be tough for many, but what we're doing with a stronger and more social crisis package today is trying to see many of those who are now facing the toughest economic challenges. For example, this is a case in point. on hotel and restaurant workers and the many others who are now undergoing leave. We see that the crisis is striking in many industries where wages are low. Now we're getting better rules of leave that are more appropriate to those who have the smallest incomes. We know that while schools and kindergartens are shut down, there are many people who cannot have a home office, and who therefore have major financial challenges related to being there for their children. We are now making sure that the care allowance scheme, sick child days, includes more. It's about the hairdresser who runs a hairdressing salon alone, about the freelancer in cultural life who's seen all his assignments erased for a long time to come. With this agreement, we contribute to income and care for several of them. And it's about those who have the least in our society, for example. many of those who have Nav benefits and who have feared how the situation will affect them, for example: related to the obligation of activity or to the provision of fixed-term benefits. This is an attempt to create more security for them as well. Then we agree – and we need to work more on that in the days to come – a strong effort to save businesses. We have to use the state's muscles to keep the wheels going. It's going to be expensive, but it'll be even more expensive to leave. I want to – and I am absolutely sure that all the parties agree – also from this pulpit to say thank you to all those who are now on the first line. It's our health professionals, of course, but it's also cleaners who fight the infection every day, it's the transport workers and the shopkeepers who keep the doors open, it's the Nav staff who now have to take care of, among other things. that what we agree on today can be put into life as soon as possible, it is those who keep the municipality and state going. All these people are keeping Norway going, and our gratitude is great. It's going to be tough for many still, but I hope and believe that with the consensus we have today, we contribute to a little more security and a little more justice in a demanding time. Then I would also like to say that this would not have been possible without the incredible amount of input from trade unions, business leaders and individuals around the country who report to us about the situation out there. We are the people's elected trustees, and I would strongly encourage them to keep streaming to the Storting, so that we are able to respond quickly to people's reality and challenges out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e455	The corona outbreak is primarily a health challenge, but the ringing effects have created and are going to create huge waves throughout the economy. Today, we think of all those who have experienced economic insecurity as a result of the crisis. As the representative Lysbakken also said: We think of the first lineer, who takes care of those who have been infected, we think of those who work in a critical profession, who continue as before in a completely different everyday life: health services, hubs, shopping, nurses, truck drivers, babysitting, etc. A sincere thanks also to the opposition party on Stortinget. Me – I allowed myself to say ‘me’ – has not left us apprehended by party politics and polemics, has not fallen into temptation to score cheap political points during the process. Me – and I mean everyone in this room – have said that now the inhabitants come first, party politics in the second row. We have come together about a political solution that is so good — insofar as one can say ‘good’ in the situation that is — as possible for the whole country at that time. We've been working together for the benefit of the citizens. There are many people who are now unsure how to get everything to hang together. How should we pay the bills this month and forward? What happens to my job and future to my kids? These questions may be particularly pressing when driving for yourself. One has created its own job, one has built businesses with hard work and sweat, with constant effort and little personal exchange because one has threatened the product or service one offers. Now these people know more about insecurity by betting than before, and the reason is not self-inflicted. There is no doubt that we need everyone who creates jobs for themselves and others. They get the wheels to go around the Norwegian economy, and they're going to be crucial when we're going to build up the economy after we've stopped the outbreak. With the commitment that Left has had for entrepreneurs and self-employed and freelancers, I am very pleased that the Storting is currently ensuring cross-political compensation for lost income and better access to sick money and care money – that everyday life is getting a little safer. On Friday, the government launched a crisis package that would make everyday life a little easier for anyone who noticed more insecurity. I was impressed by what the government was able to deliver in such a short time. During the weekend, the government has also made further proposals to lift Norway out of the crisis, with a number of measures that make it easier for businesses to obtain liquidity loans in their bank to deal with the crisis. The government's proposal was a good starting point for us at Stortinget, and we've used the weekend to make the package even more accurate, comprehensive and covering. We have worked intensively all weekend, but we also owe it to all those who need extra help in a difficult situation. I am pleased that we have been able to celebrate party politics and work for the best of the people. The talks at Stortinget have our good and solution-oriented. Government and big business have been working and are going to be working on a blast in the future to secure business and citizens against serious economic consequences of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e472	We are today in a situation that gets so distinct just weeks ago. We have introduced the most stringent instruments that have been used in peacetime. Now there are two things that apply: firstly, we have to stop the infection and save lives. Secondly, we must secure the economy of those affected and ensure that we have jobs to come back to when the situation has come under control. We as a nation have our backs to bear this situation. We've got the finances and the money on the book. We have a strong tradition of hard work, and as a nation, we have proven many times that we can stand together when it comes to it. We'll get back to normal, but it can take time. At this stage, it is important that we do what we can to reduce the impact both for individuals and for society, so that as much as possible has a job to get back to when the virus is under control. On Friday, the government presented two propositions with measures to relieve this exceptional situation. These included, inter alia: reduced the number of days on which employers are obliged to pay in the event of leave and cancellation of waiting days for daily allowances for those on leave. Furthermore, the propositions contained changes in the tax rules which allow companies in deficit to recover the deficit against taxed profits from previous years and enable owners of companies in deficit to be deferred with payment of property taxes. Throughout the weekend, there have been negotiations between government and opposition to form a broad majority for an enhanced package of measures. This has been achieved, and this has meant that the package has been expanded with several important new measures, as has been explained. There is a great strength in the situation we are now in, that we are able to stand together across the political divide. This is in line with the Norwegian tradition. We stand together when it comes to it, and we put people and countries in front of minor political disagreements. We have now received a powerful package of cross-political support which, hopefully, can contribute to both calm, security and greater predictability. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank all, both opposition and government parties, who have negotiated the weekend to reach agreement on a solid package. During the weekend more has also come from the government. Several measures have been taken to reduce infection and several measures have been put in place to clarify the situation for business. I would like to mention in particular the guarantee and loan arrangements of 100 billion. NOK, which was advertised on Sunday. This will provide intrusive liquidity to companies that are now struggling in this state of emergency in which we are located, and will help to ensure that we have safe and good jobs to come back to when the situation normalizes. There will also probably be a need for further action to reduce the impact of the current situation. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have contributed to a three-phase process. This is phase one, where we are taking immediate action to avoid unnecessary redundancies and bankruptcies in otherwise viable companies that are experiencing acute loss of income now. In phase two, the government will work on further measures for businesses and industries that are particularly hard hit by the virus outbreak, while phase three is action if the virus outbreak proves to have long-term economic consequences and brings us into a low economic cycle. The Christian People's Party supports this and believes it is important that the government closely follow the situation and come back with further action as the course of the crisis becomes more visible. We also have great confidence in this that the government will follow up in a good way, and I will commend the Prime Minister for her leadership in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e494	I want to start by thanking the other parties for constructive negotiations, where fortunately we have agreed a great deal. The Norwegian Government agrees that the financial burden of the virus epidemic should not be passed on to ordinary workers or businesses. The state is ready to contribute, and I am pleased that there has been a broad consensus on that. In recent days, the focus of the Greens has been on those hardest hit by the coronary crisis. First, we must protect those who are at risk of becoming life-threatening sick. When I stand here, like many others, I will take the opportunity to thank the health workers, all who care, relieve and treat the sick during this epidemic, and other critical personnel. Secondly, we have to call about those who get their income base torn off, and who now do not know if they can pay the bills that come, but also those who have to cancel employees in a small enterprise, where one knows each other's families and the children go to the same class at school. Although most will now be affected by the crisis, Norway is a lucky country, after all. We have a strong welfare society, an organized working life, a people with good health and a country with considerable economic space. One of the prerequisites for us to be an equal country in the future is economic security. Today, we are discussing measures to safeguard this economic security. Our focus since the government crisis package was presented has, among other things, have taken even stronger measures to help small businesses, freelancers, self-employed and low-paid people who may remain on a bare ground. It is an important improvement to the crisis package that the state now presents the full range of small businesses and also self-employed, ranging from transport workers and industry to dentists, musicians and hairdressers – all the small actors that are enormously important for a healthy economy when this crisis is over. We are particularly concerned about the cultural and travel industries, which are now completely losing income. We are therefore very pleased that the lowest VAT rate is now being reduced from 12 pst. to 8 pst. with effect from 1 January of this year. It means a lot to taxi drivers, the travel industry and the part of the cultural industry that is subject to VAT, including the cinemas. For the cultural sector, we believe that more measures are likely to be needed in the future, and we will have to get back to that. We in the Greens are pleased that the social profile of the measures has been strengthened during the weekend's negotiations. Now we have a package of a wide range of good measures that we agree on. People are guaranteed full pay during the first 20 days after the leave, the income limit for daily allowances is lowered, and apprentices are guaranteed income if they lose their apprenticeship space. Companies now have to take a much less responsibility, and the state is setting up. We look forward to continuing the constructive cooperation here at Stortinget in the days and weeks to come. The common sense of crisis and the political will shown by all the parties in the last few days have been outstanding and extraordinary. It also shows how much we can do in the face of other crises that threaten life and health. In the future, we will continue to work because the Storting is united in this difficult and very special time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e511	The situation is serious, we all notice that. It also tells us today's headlines: «The Korean crisis will hit harder than the financial crisis», «The highest corona death rates so far in the EU on Sunday», «Insulates residents and locks the doors of hospitals» and «Over 1000 hospital staff in Oslo in quarantine». I want to thank all those who make our society go around in this crisis, all those who work in health care, who make a big and important effort, and also cleaners, drivers, shopkeepers, soldiers, child protection workers and many others who have to go out and work even if they can be infected by the corona virus. Now many people work from home offices, but not all are as lucky and have that opportunity. The crisis is hitting hard – for some people it's a matter of life or death, for many people it's about having a job to go to or not. Red would go on several points beyond what we adopt today. We want a real crisis package for workers. But what the Storting decides today is just as important improvements and great steps in the right direction – away from that government first put on the table. What came from the government before the weekend was too weak, and it lacked, in our view, care for workers both with and without work, those who make our society go around in the crisis we are in, and those who are hardest hit by the crisis. The size now stops the attempt to roll the bill over to the employees for the first days of leave, and so it did. The proposal before the weekend was to reduce the obligation to pay by companies on leave from 15 to 2 days. We said no to send the bill to the employees, and now those who are on leave get full pay for 20 days, and the state pays 18 of those days. It was important. We're increasing the daily allowance for those who are permitting, and it's going to be especially noticeable for low pay. Then we will continue to fight for the increase in the daily allowance of the time to come, even for those who are totally unemployed, who are not covered by today's agreement. We don't accept that there will be some kind of a and b-layer of people who go on a day-to-day basis, that those who have been permised and those who have lost their jobs and are not on leave should have different levels of benefits. They share the same daily allowance, face the same problems in everyday life and should receive the same level of benefit. We all depend on the same common security network, we have to meet this crisis together, and it can't just be talk. We believe that the Stortinget will have to rectify this later this week. We lower the income limit to be entitled to a daily allowance. It is very important for those who do not have a regular job to go to, but who have been callers, who have been hired or employed temporarily. They're now getting an income hedge, and we're also getting a solution for freelancers. This is important. Those who are now on redundancy pay receive a painful, necessary and proper break – they are given an extended period, so that the lack of clarification now does not result in a reduction of the three-year quota for the recipients. It will also be important to be able to relieve Nav of handling what is coming from permitting cases and applications for daily allowance in the future. In addition, the activity requirements are also suspended. It is also important for those affected, and for Nav. Then we got a pass to ensure that apprentices who lose their jobs are guaranteed income at the level of the apprentice's salary. We are pleased that today’s decision has been made by the Stortinge. This is a historic moment, because in previous crises the gold card has been drawn for the banks. From this point on, there has been a debate from one day on that we should not give the bill for the crisis to workers, and that is important. But today’s decision is just a start – a better crisis package is needed to ensure workers. And last but not least, when the state is going to use its citizens' taxes to help businesses, we probably have to make sure that companies don't get dividends or give bonuses to the owners. We have to conduct a fair crisis policy that gets legitimacy and outreach among people who pay for this. We'll get back to that. Today we are part of a historically broad consensus. We will continue to take the lead in ensuring that employees' interests are safeguarded, secure jobs and not least work for us to resolve the crisis together, because it is community that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e534	There can be no doubt about the extent and depth of this crisis. It's global, and it affects all parts of Norwegian society. It is primarily about life and health, but it is also about economics, jobs and well-being. I want to join all those who have thanked everyone who keeps the wheels running out there. I would also like to say a thousand thanks to the Storting and to all the parties that have contributed to the solution that is coming today. The crisis evolves hour by hour. Let me just make it clear: we have to come back with solutions – and more solutions – to Stortinget. The government and Stortinget will have to work more closely together than before, talk better together than before, and I intend to take my responsibility for it. Only to mention one matter: funding of Nav. Although that's not what it says right now, we have to get back to it. In our welfare systems, there will now be one thing, and only one thing, namely to prevent the spread of the coronary virus. Anything else will have to be taken care of. Everything that is of unnecessary bureaucratic rules, all that is unnecessary detours, everything that is normal okay, but that is currently contrary to common sense, must be cleared aside as quickly as possible. The home meal we get today makes it easier for us to contribute to it. We work night and day with measures that can help companies keep going. We work night and day with measures to deal with an increasing number of workers who are going to need community support in a situation where they feel they are getting laid off, or that the income base is just gone overnight. Hub is in full swing, of course in crisis mode. Nav has been used to tread even in previous crises. During the financial crisis, there were 48 000 decisions, during the oil price crisis 26 000 decisions. What's happening now is that there's probably a lot, a lot more that will need our usual arrangements. At the same time, it'll be much shorter than before. We need to ensure that our systems can deliver. We're going to be sure that today's Great Britain's joint decision will be put in place. But let me be very clear: we can't do all this at the same time. If we try to do all of this at the same time, our systems will crash in the worst case. In other words, something is going to take some time. I therefore ask people to understand this, while at the same time ensuring that the solutions are put in place, to be quite clear. Firstly, Nav expects a huge increase in the number of applications. There will be a great deal of pressure on existing procedural capacity in terms of people and number of case handlers. The experience from the past is that Nav will need more people gradually, but right now it is not possible to recruit away from it, among other things. because of training considerations. At the same time, Nav is experiencing an increase in his own absence. In other words, the load on Nav is getting a lot bigger, while at the same time reducing the capacity in worst cases. Secondly, several of the changes will require major system adaptations and technical progress. Nav has a comprehensive technical system. We're working on bombs. We're going to do everything we can, but it's also important that we give priority, and I'm going to have a close dialogue with the Stortinget about it as well. We need to ensure that the permitting arrangements are put in place. That's priority number one. And then we have to secure the income for all those who are not employed in the usual way, and who are thus at risk of being without money for normal living. We're going to work as fast as we can after the home to make changes in Nav come into place after the second time on Thursday. We're going to expand the number of days of care, and we're going to remove the medical certificate requirement to facilitate a dramatic printing on the regular services. This week also applies to the leave system and the employer's period, and we also work as soon as possible with the pay days for employees. We're working on bombs. We will do everything we can – both for life and health, to assist Norwegian business and to assist all those who now need security. Again: Thank you to Stortinget. We have to do this. We're going to get it done, but we have to do it the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e569	I would like to thank the party to the Council of State for their cooperation on weekends with the other parties. We understand that all public etats experience the extraordinary situation that is very demanding. Not least, it's the Nav, as the Council of State describes it, with a lot of requests, medical applications and people who have questions. The Minister of Labour is responsible for the fact that Nav has the authority to help people, and not least to carry out what is also on the table in this debate as the will of the majority of Stortinges, including the Government Party. It's clearly a difficult task, but it's an important task. My question to the Council of State is, how does he want to ensure that Nav has all the powers to carry out the will of the Consolation of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e574	The first thing we do now is make sure that Nav – and it understands Nav itself – ends up with all the demands that can normally be reasonable, but that are pointless today. For example, it can't be that you get cut social assistance if you're not on duty. We have to extend and set aside many arrangements. Point two: we need to figure out all the areas where we need shelters, where Nav can't do it himself, but we need permission from us. We're going to do that fast, running -- here it's not talking about days, here it's talking about hours. Point three: Hub must also rest in both the short and long term. In the short term, it will not help right now, the next few days – and the next few days and weeks are critical – to increase budget resources, but we need to have increased budget resources for Nav. There is no doubt that they will manage this. Then, in close dialogue with the Stortinget, we have to make it a priority, and then we have to tell people that the security of this coming is going to be there, but something may not come right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e585	Thank you for the good information from the Council of State. I also have a question related to Nav, and it is whether the government is now looking at solutions to increase staffing, possibly by looking at employees who have retired from their pension, who could get to and remedied quite quickly. So I noticed what the Council of State said in terms of cooperating with the Stortinget. I must be allowed to say that I believe the government here has a potential for improvement. I just want an assurance that this isn't just what you're saying now, but that we're going to notice it in the dialogue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e592	The answer to the first is yes. Nav is already looking at the possibilities of using e.g. someone who has gone off recently, but it is worth noting that even employees who come in will probably have to work from home. Although a lot of technological equipment is in place, many in Norway right now notice that technology is great, but as effective as usual, one cannot necessarily work when there are so many who are at home. The answer to question number two is also a clear and unambiguous yes. And I see that the Storting has now also set up its own committee to deal with coronary matter. I think it's important that the dialogue with that committee is fast and ongoing, because we're in a situation now how many of our normal and important decision-making processes just take too long. The size has also fully proven through this weekend that you are able to work extraordinarily quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e599	There has been a certain discussion and a little confusion around when the new laying down rules will come into force, and from when they will apply, for there is a second processing of this on Thursday. Many people are likely to get a permit or a notice of it today, Tuesday and Wednesday. The question I want to clarify is whether these changes will include those that are permitted before Thursday, we are increasing the coverage, as well as those who received permitting notices in the hotel and restaurant industry last week – that we are not getting any distinction between groups of permits. Can we get a clarification on that from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e604	This is, as we all know, an extraordinary situation, and I have not been allowed into absolutely all of the things that the Storting will decide. I have, of course, looked at it and I have been kept continuously informed along the way, but we also have to look very closely at what the Storting decides. When the Stortinget second deals with the proposition on Thursday, the government will sanction it as quickly as possible in the Council of State. This will also lead to the entry into force of the rules on permitting, for example: the period of employment. The system to put in place 100 pst. Compensation, i.e. for normal pay under 6G, the first twenty days can take a little longer. We're going to follow all the frames set up by the Storting, but that's one of the questions where someone out there might notice that there's some delay. Permitting legislation will be put in place first, but the legislation as such will apply to all from the moment it is sanctioned. It must be clear and clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e611	Thank you for the speech by the Council of State. We are pleased that the Council of State underlines close dialogue with the Stortinget. We're also ready to be on it. The Council of State was also concerned that increased appropriations for Nav would be needed. I just want to get an insurance from the Council of State that until the government comes back to Stortingen regarding this, I assume that Nav will get the funds they are now asking for, in order to be able to deal with the situation they are in. In the consensus we have today, there is also the fact that payments on several schemes are to be made as soon as Nav comes up with a technical solution. I also wonder whether the Government can assure the Government that we will be kept up-to-date and have a dialogue on the development of the technical solutions in the Nav system in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e619	The answer to the last one is yes, but also then I hope it is possible to do some of these things as efficiently as possible. Some of the instruments to keep the Storting orientated formally also might take some time. So one week to get answers to written questions in the situation we're in now is a little eternity. The answer to question number one is that there is no one in Nav who is now in doubt. It is not budgetary constraints or money issues that we must not now sit and assess: can we do this? Do we want to run out of money in August? There's no question now. Now the whole hub is working on high gear to manage a massive increase in traffic. They will have to deal with an increase that will also last a long time, because even when the virus and health situation is over, the economic situation is likely to persist.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e626	All the parties that have had posts have talked about saying thank you to those who are in the first line, whether it's the nurse, the driver, everyone who does the job, and that also applies to everyone who's in the first line of the Nav. I can't really get enough emphasis on the importance that all of us who are here do what we can to help Nav and also the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the job they're currently in, because we're going to adopt a lot of things that are, of course, demanding to do in a short time, and we have a full understanding of that. The clear message from at least the Central Party to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is that if there are things we can contribute to, we will do so, because the most important thing is that as many people as possible get the benefits as possible. I understand the answer to Røe Isaksen that he takes a small reservation that it is not everything that comes into place right away, but that he assures everyone that they will receive the money afterwards. It is clear that a clear assurance of this can also provide security in contact with banks and other financial institutions, if one knows that one gets the money, so it is important that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and in Nav are given a very clear emphasis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e633	As I said, I believe that the two things that are most urgent now are the law of leave, including the part for workers, and the income protection for those who are not in permanent employment, the type of self-employed and freelancers. It's important, because most, almost all, have got their incomes just torn away. Someone might have possibilities, but we have to address that, and there we'll also have to consider some emergency solutions before a system is in place. For example, it has to be considered whether to relax the requirements for temporary social assistance, for example. can come without having to fill the usual requirements to realize everything you have of values. So I just want to join that thank you. We are in a situation where we see many of the occupational groups that can either be invisible, for example. all those who keep it clean around us, or those who can often shut up, for example. Many of those who work in Nav – now we see what the system is made of, and how extremely critical and important it is for our common security in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e640	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e647	How to deal with a crisis in the initial phase is to define the entire later management of the crisis. There is some reason why it has been so important for the Workers' Party from the start of sending the very clear signal that no one should be left to himself: that the community should set up for you, that your health should be protected, that your family should be safe, that your income should be safe – and that it should also apply at a time when the future is not prudent. Through the discussions we have had, the working party has been in favour of the rights of ordinary families. We are grateful that the opposition has been able to stand together in these difficult discussions, and not least because it has been possible to have good and constructive talks with the government. Some of the things that have been important to us have been to give the crisis package a social profile, and not least to ensure that those who are in the first line to deal with this difficult infection situation, they get to me that they need to actually do it. It shall apply, inter alia, to: Our municipalities, it's for Nav, and it's not just for health. They have our full support and our full gratitude for the job they do. Some of the changes we have made are about ordinary workers. It is about people who are being outsourced, who are now guaranteed full pay during the leave of absence for 20 days – and that the community takes most of the bill, not just the businesses – and that low-paid people who are outsourced get more money in the wallet by getting a higher rate. It is important that we set up for those who have the least. They have also had important functions, important jobs, helped keep our working life going, and now they are the ones that are among the most delayed. For those who are apprentices and have lost their apprenticeship, and today we are concerned about what is happening, we have an income insurance system that is going to be at the level of apprentice pay. And those who are at home with kids and who are now reaching the limit of care money will have a doubling of the period of care money – that is, 20 days in total for each parent. It has been important for us to find solutions that also enable companies to have the liquidity they need in order for companies with a healthy economy to survive this difficult situation. This includes, inter alia: that we have cut their spending in several areas. The employer’s period of sick pay has been cut, care money has been cut, and on leave tickets have been cut. We will also continue to work on the road for more policy measures that will ensure industry and companies that are currently exposed. We will continue to work on the road, and we hope for equal cooperation between the parties when the next steps will also be taken. I am pleased that the government party has been reformed with formulations for practical solutions, including: link to what is to be carried out in Nav, so that they are involved in taking responsibility for its implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e664	I am very pleased that a broad majority on the Stortinget have agreed on part one of the economic crisis package. These immediate measures will help to avoid unnecessary bankruptcies and redundancies for businesses. We are acutely affected by the outbreak of the virus, and through this we ensure the well-being of those who have been hit most by the crisis. But I also have to say that this is a start-up phase, and we all have to be prepared that we probably have to gather several times in time to come, to give our answers. The new proposals will strengthen the arrangements for workers on leave, self-employed, freelancers, apprentices, low-paid and parents with children. Permits are now guaranteed full pay until day 20, and there are a number of other proposals here that colleagues from the Committee have already mentioned. The right and the government parties have always had a goal of reaching a broad consensus, and there has been a strong commitment to our party for many of the changes that we are going to adopt. We have received feedback from our own party, from business, from the organization, from society, from community, and not least from the parties on the Stortinget. I hope we've all been able to be constructive through this weekend. I think so, and I would like to thank the members of the Committee for the cooperation we have had so far. However, there is no doubt that it has been difficult to put in place solutions that are practical in the short term, and it is important to succeed in the follow-up in getting things in place quickly. The situation around us has changed hour by hour through the processing of this package. When we started working on Friday, the world looked very different from what it does today, when we're going to adopt parts of it, and the rest will be adopted on Thursday. So here it's going very fast, and that's a snapshot we politicians are now going to try to catch every time we come with packages and adopt these. At least I am very happy that we have established a cross-political agreement in record time. It shows Norwegian policy at its very best. Then I just want to give you a simple case information. There may be some typographical errors in the material we are about to adopt afterwards, or there may be things that we report that are not about content, but there may be some typographical errors that should be corrected before voting. I know, among other things. that one of the proposals contains the wrong number of days, but we will come back to that so that it becomes correct. The parties that have worked on this are familiar with the mistakes, and I will come back to it in that case. But last of all, I hope that we can continue the good work in Stortinget. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e679	We're up in a dramatic situation that changes, not day by day, but hour by hour. What may have started as a fear of life and health, and which is still too many, has also evolved to be a fear of losing a job, being permitted, experiencing a loss of income that could potentially have a major impact on the family. It's about companies that have been solid in the past, business owners who are now afraid that life's work will be lost, businesses that have been in the family's possession for generations, which are now approaching the edge of the stump day after day. The only thing that is true is that the Stortinget is drawing together, that we are bringing together solutions that both contribute to better arrangements for employees, especially those who are low-paid, and help relieve the burdens on businesses. What's important for companies now is to have money in the cash register. All we can do to contribute to it is good, and this is just the start of many actions that will come as this moves forward. We have improved the rights of employees, but we have also helped to reduce the burden on employers. So it's like no one knows what the future will bring, what the days will give us, but it's one thing that's absolutely certain, and that's that we're going to work on blasts also in the future to find solutions to what's ahead of us. I just want to thank you for the good cooperation we've had. The opposition parties set out early to find solutions to ensure better arrangements for low pay, to ensure better arrangements for businesses, to ensure better liquidity for businesses. After that, we have also established a very constructive cooperation with the government parties, which meant that everyone could finally stand together on this matter. That's good. That Nav's going to have challenges is nothing to worry about. We see large companies in Norway, solid companies, notifying thousands of permits. We just want to say that we fully support Nav in the job to be done, and are, of course, prepared to provide the financial instruments needed to do the job, although I know that this is not just the challenge now. Finally, I hope that the government will come to Stortinget more often and talk to us before presenting these crisis packages. I think that in the situation we're in now, we've earned an even closer cooperation, so that we can work together to find solutions as quickly as possible, for every hour and every day counting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e690	I would like to thank you for the good work of all parties, both in the government and in the financial committee. Norway is better off than other countries, which have a weaker welfare state and greater dependence on private-funded and private-organised security. This gives us a security that we are now very happy with. There is also great trust between population and authority, and this trust must be promoted in all our work and in all our statements. It is now the individual country, the nation state, that takes the primary responsibility for its citizens to provide people with the greatest possible security. In contrast to the financial crisis in 2008, we now have a health crisis, which in turn creates an immediate economic crisis in business and employment worldwide. As elected leaders, we must give people greater security for both health and income. Our healthcare system must provide all possible support and resources to provide the best possible security for the population. There I would like to make a point of the day: Health professionals must be given the best possible level of protection against getting infected at work. That's why in different social areas, we need to mobilise what we have of protective equipment for health workers who face people who need health care. In the economic field, I welcome the agreement on better financial security. We are facing a distribution of public money that must be both fair and targeted. It must be fair to employees, seafaring entrepreneurs, businesses and people who depend on social security benefits. And we, as many people have been involved, have to review all temporary benefits over Nav, so we're ensuring that security. I would like to underline what has been said about the targeted care money instruments, where we are getting improvements both for businesses and for parents, for sickness and for quarantine, where the proportion of farms and seagoing traders is reduced from 16 to 3 days, and where an extended self-declaration of 16 days is given. Furthermore, there is a permit, where the holdings receive an excess of 2 days, and a cover of 100 pst is provided. for 20 days for those on leave. Finally, I would like to say that we are facing a liquidity crisis, and the government's proposal to provide a minimum of 50 billion. kr to ordinary companies that are not financed through the bond market is very important for us to have a risk-relief for private banks so that they can make the necessary efforts to ensure liquidity for the many who are currently in an uncertain situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e707	I also want to thank those who are now on the first line for both combating and stopping the spread of the corona virus in our healthcare system, the truck drivers who carry food around the country, the people who work in the grocery stores, and the cleaners. It's an incredibly important effort all of these and more contribute now, in the situation that our country is in. I also want to thank the parties that have been involved in the negotiations this weekend. I am extremely pleased that we, the opposition and the government, have reached the consensus we have reached now. We have been very clear on the SV side, ever since the government presented the main points of the crisis package last week, that it had to become more social and powerful. We know that there are many, both people and businesses, who are now uncertain whether they make the wheels go around, whether they get income, and whether they're going to have a job going forward. Therefore, it has been important to ensure that those who lose their jobs are permitted or have to stay at home with their children, know that they have a safe income, and that businesses receive financial support to secure jobs. With these proposals, the state now takes a greater part of the bill so that businesses get better out of it. 20 days of full pay and better pay for those on leave with low pay after the 20 days are incredibly important decisions that we are making today, for both businesses and individuals around Norway. I am pleased that we also ensure that apprentices receive an income, and that self-employed and freelancers receive an income when their income base is removed. We also ask in this agreement that the government come back with proposals for further compensation for these groups, such as cultural workers and hairdressers, who are not allowed to work. Those receiving Nav benefits with activity requirements shall now be informed that the activity requirements are suspended. Those receiving fixed-term benefits, such as redundancy benefits, are allowed to extend their period. Parents who are at home with children receive income through a double care allowance. Not least, the companies are receiving all the financial support they need, both in the consensus that exists here today, and in what we are working on until Thursday. It was said here – and the government has also said so in the past – that we have three phases in the management of the economic crisis facing Norway. My prophecy is that it can quickly become more than that. That is why I would like to join in what Mr Listhaug also mentioned here: Close cooperation between government and corruption is now crucial. Close dialogue, also in advance of the government’s making proposals – there will be more of them in the future – is important, so that we can stand together to deal with the crisis facing Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e728	The country is in an exceptional state as a result of the covid-19 virus. It spreads rapidly in many countries – it spreads very rapidly in our country. Everyone has sent a greeting to our health professionals, who are on the first line and experience this from hour to hour. Our best option is to stop it by keeping away from each other and following the health authorities' instructions. There must be clear and consistent advice that does not allow for misunderstanding. Presis info is crucial in times of crisis. In such a situation, our community health service is a solid corset compared to other countries that do not have similar coverage. No one should stand alone even though we now keep a clear physical distance between us. Our healthcare now needs to be clearly informed by central health authorities with clear guidelines for the treatment of patients in hospitals and enough equipment to treat, enough testing equipment to quickly check the most vulnerable and those who, at best, are actually to be tested. We need extra resources to carry out infection detection, to manage local outbreaks and to protect elderly and multi-sick patients – and infectious disease protection equipment to protect health professionals, the frontline soldiers in this silent war that is now being fought. They're our most important and scarce resource. Many of our leading health professionals are now on the job and have long shifts with an infectious scourge hanging over them. It cannot be stressed enough from this pulpit that it is important that what can be done is that they are protected for their own health in the great tasks they do on behalf of all of us. We assume that the government will come to Stortinget if necessary to ensure our common healthcare full mobilisation in the days and weeks to come. Then I encourage you to take care of each other and follow the advice of the authorities. And as many people have already said, we have to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e737	Yesterday I got a phone call from the nursing home to my grandmother, who could calm down that everything was going well, but from the restraining order last week they are now preparing relatives for the worst. I'm not sure I'll see you again. This phone now goes to thousands of relatives all over the country, and it is of course hard to get. But there is also a heavy phone to pick up. Land and beach around know doctors and nurses what priorities they will have to do in the future. And one of the most important things we do now is to make sure and take care of those that are in the first line. The first line is coming forward – from health professionals to cleaners and shopkeepers, those who run trams and lanes, case handlers at Nav and our bureaucrats who have presented what we are about to adopt here today. They deserve great thanks and support in the future. Thanks also to the social partners and everyone who has recorded the weekend for the work we are going to work with. - Keep it going! I am pleased that the government came so quickly on the road with amendments to the legislation on laying down laying down laying down rules, which ensure jobs by postponing, among other things. advance taxes, VAT, employers' taxes, so that fixed costs, which are difficult to deal with, can be paid. I am also very pleased that the Storting has taken this further work and provided income protection for workers and freelancers who are affected. Businesses and jobs across the country face challenging times. Everything won't be like before when we get to the other side. Whereas the main objective must be to provide the best possible care for workers while at the same time reducing the burden on business; That could be a requirement and we do not want to be able to meet, because we must probably also give priority here. It is important that the measures put in place actually remedy the crisis, not lead to new crises in the short or longer term. I believe that the government has done that by adapting measures to the situation. Forward now someone will lose their closeness and love. Someone's gonna lose their job. Some will lose their life's work and investments. Even though government and big business are set up, this is what the representative Schlagsvold Vedum said: Too many people will only get a little worse. There will be tougher debates after this, and I hope the Storting's will to stand together also comes when we will have to give priority. Like so many others, I also have a somewhat strenuous relationship with the concept of ‘daught’. At worst, it's forcing people together to solve problems that might have been solved in another way. At best, we're good at lifting together, so that we get a better starting point than when we started. I hope that when we get on the other side, we can say that's what we did, and then I hope that we can put the term "dewness" in quarantine.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e753	Now that we are facing one of the greatest crises in the history of our country, we must show solidarity. Whereas it is necessary for the Community to provide security for those who would be struggling to pay bills and rents; Since the introduction of the crisis measures, we have received many enquiries from concerned individuals and trade unions, which see their members at risk of losing their incomes depending entirely on them. The situation is also critical for those employed in part-time low-income positions. On Friday we were contacted by Sandefjord Handball, who risks losing its largest source of income, Fjordcup. Many kids will lose their activity offer in the future when the club loses income. But they also have 25 employees who work part-time and earn less than 1.5G. These will be on the barside without any kind of income hedges if there are no changes to what the government provided on Friday. In other economic crises, we could think that these people could find another source of income, but that's not the way it is today. The crisis we are facing is completely different from previous economic crises. In the past, those who lost their jobs had opportunities to retrain and get jobs in other industries. It's not possible now. Even in sectors not directly affected by the coronary apathy, it is now spread on a large scale. Travel and cultural industries are both industries that are important in District Norway, and are industries that recruit many young people, and that are particularly hard hit. Aviation has major challenges, and industry by industry is coming. When Aker Solutions has come up with advance notice that they're going to permit several thousand employees, we see that this isn't just about the small ones. We get similar messages from parts of the industry, and in India we met with the County and others yesterday, who told us that there were a lot of people who were very worried. The crisis we are facing will hit ordinary people hard. It's right and proper that we do what we can to save businesses and businesses. That is why the proposals that have now been put forward are absolutely necessary. We cannot leave low wages, freelancers and the smallest traders without any security. That's what we have in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e768	Norway is experiencing a major crisis that has hit hard, that has hit quickly, that has hit widely and that is rapidly increasing. It is, as many before me have said here today, a value that we can stand together politically on important measures, but not least that as a society we can stand together on measures to try to help some of those that are hardest hit. Regardless of the measures we take here, very many people will still face tough times and be hard hit, but hopefully we can help to make everyday life for both many workers, many businesses, self-employed, freelancers and others a little less demanding than it would otherwise have been. Therefore, it is important that we provide people-to-people measures, regardless of how the crisis has affected them, regardless of how one has chosen to organise its activities. We're going to set up for those who need it. No matter if you get a permit, if you get sick, if you're at home with children, or if you're otherwise affected by the crisis, we're going to try to contribute. It has been important to provide better arrangements for those on leave, especially those who have low incomes and who will experience a steep fall in income. It is important to set up the enterprises that will keep Community income in the future, and it is important to set up self-employed workers. Many of the arrangements we have for businesses will not hit the self-employed – they will be hit in a way. The fact that we now at least have a system of equivalent coverage that one today has for sickness benefits, for self-employed people, is important. But even if you get it in place, there are many self-employed people who have invested their lives, who are personally responsible, and who will still have a very rough time to meet. Therefore, further action is important, and it is important to reduce the burden on businesses that we are trying to contribute to, among other things. with suspension of VAT and other taxes and charges. It is important that we work together on the measures that have come today, and it is important that we stand together in the demanding times that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e779	It's a unique time and a unique situation, where things go very fast, and where the situation is very different from day to day and from hour to hour. The propositions that we urgently deal with and try to agree to at the current big meeting were developed in a situation before the most drastic measures were taken on Thursday, and the situation beyond today we do not know. There is a lot in this situation that is not normal. What I'm happy for is normal, is that as we sit in this room, across party boundaries, we can talk together when there are challenging situations for Norway, for Norwegian families, for Norwegian economy, for Norwegian workers and for Norwegian jobs. Now we have a package to ensure that a person has good powers to move forward with different approaches, and to ensure that a person comes with measures that help both in the short term and in the long term. In the short term, there will be greater security for the income protection of employees, self-employed workers and freelancers, and in the long term, we will have a consensus on several measures that will strengthen our starting point in the time required for us, and that will also have a job to go to later. But when that's said, it's a situation where there's not going to be enough at any time because the situation is developing and it's going to be challenging in the future. It will be challenging for the employees, for the families who are now in a situation that I don't think either of us have been in before, and it will be challenging for those who are in the first line, whether they are the health professionals, or it's about the systems we have in Nav and other places. We're lucky to be living in a country like Norway, which has both resources through our oil fund, and which is a country where we have a welfare society based on good order. A lot of this is also different at the time we're in now, and at that time I'm happy that we, through everything, are able to sit down and find good solutions across the party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e792	We are in a very serious situation after the spread of the coronary virus has come out of control also in Norway. Since the immediate crisis package was presented on Friday, problems have increased and all sectors of society are now affected. While the first phase affected individual industries, all sectors are now affected by the impact of the epidemic in terms of less demand for goods and services and job losses. The most important work is now in progress to limit the spread of infection and to preserve life and health. Thank you very much to everyone in the health service and in other critical social functions that are on – and to those who otherwise ensure that the wheels are kept going! The situation is changing rapidly. Many people are concerned about their own and the health of family members, about the family economy and about their job. Those who have people in work feel a heavy responsibility towards their employees. We're going to get through this together, but it will require an extraordinary effort of all of us – a great social virtue. The government has assured them that they will do everything they need and use the money needed to secure the Norwegian economy, maintain financial stability and limit the risk of long-term negative impacts on value creation and employment. The financial market actors in Norway, banks and insurance companies now show that they take social responsibility and will help people and businesses through the crisis. Fortunately, Norwegian economy is robust already. The state finances are solid and Norwegian banks are solid. Norway’s Bank was early out of interest rates of 0.5 percentage points. Then came increased F-loans, which give increased liquidity to the banks, so they can borrow out more. The reduction of the capital buffer requirement by 1,5 pst. gives banks an increase in lending capacity of an estimated 500-600 billion. kr. And yesterday the government expanded the crisis measures with a 100-billion-billion-dollar loan package. kr targeted to the enterprises. The banks are an important first-line defense and have announced that they will engage in dialogue with their customers and offer the freedom to pay, temporary credit and other ways of getting through the crisis. Nor does the Housing Loan Regulation prevent the granting of a right of deduction in the event of sudden loss of income. Recovery of losses against previously paid corporate taxes and deferred payments of employers' taxes, VAT and taxes will also improve the liquidity of many enterprises. When it is now agreed that full pay will be paid on leave up to 6G for the first 20 days, that the sick pay and care allowance scheme will be improved, that the employer's period will be reduced, and that low-paid and self-employed people will receive better income insurance, it is clear that it means a great deal to people's safety. This is a start, and the government has assured that more action will be taken in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e815	Now it's serious, and it's in that situation -- when it's serious, and when the challenges are in line -- we define ourselves. Today, we define ourselves in a way that best illustrates Norway: the ability and willingness to gather politically and to take the measures that the Kingdom needs in the situation we are now facing – a consensus on good and necessary measures to relieve businesses, facing the challenges of many precarious workers out there, who have doubts about their own work situation, and not least of many self-employed people, who have really been in trouble in the last few days. The feedback I have received from many of them is that one looks forward to seeing them handwritten. We stand together, and we do it across opposition and government. We're going to work more in the days and weeks that come, to take the right measures that lift the nation. But it will come one day when we've been through this, when we've been through these trials, where we have to look back and reflect. Then I also hope that we can draw some lessons. One lesson that I think we need to draw is that the nation state is well able to deal with crises much better than many alternatives that some political people have worked for. I also think we have to allow ourselves – when we get to that point – to think through whether we have built a good enough preparedness for the Kingdom. These are probably areas where it's a potential for improvement. That lesson I hope we can draw together for in the future and make us even better equipped to deal with crises. But today, we owe it first and foremost to send a warm thought to those who work in health care, who are working on maintaining critical infrastructure and functions in society. It's thanks to them that we're able to handle the situation, and it's thanks to them that we're going to get through this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e828	I have to join in the gratitude that more from this pulpit show all those who continue to go to work in socially critical parts of the world of work, welfare and more. It's those who work at the grocery store, of course it's those who work at the health service every day, but I also want to add: those who now take care of some of the hurts among us, on those who need help, and that's for example. those who work in child protection, which have also been defined as socially critical personnel. This is a dramatic situation that hits hard, and it hits especially some groups extra hard. We know that a large part of our working life today is characterized by loose forms of connection, by small job breaks, by self-employed and freelancers. These include hairdressers, sound and light technicians, taxi drivers, other cultural workers and hotel and restaurant workers. These are people who have no income, and who also do not have a social security network to fall back on. Only in the last few days have I even talked to many enough to make that impression, when people have to ask for help from family and their closest because you don't have income at all. That is why I am very pleased – and many very relieved – with the measures that the opposition along with the government parties has come up with, which make it easier and provide a guarantee for the self-employed, for liberators in culture and other parts of the world of work. So it's still that much remains. We must also prevent unnecessary bankruptcy, for example. in cultural life – we need something to live for when we get through all of this. I would also like to mention in particular all those who now have an extra great need for community help. Many people now need to spend more time in their homes affected by violence; there are children who do not receive adequate care in their homes, who may have been given nursery facilities as child welfare measures, which must now be at home. Therefore, an important part of the next round here in Stortinget needs to be about how we can deal with the families, the children who are now living in an extremely vulnerable situation. Child protection, crisis centres – there are many who are now doing societally critical tasks that we need to contribute to, and at least there will be SV to be concerned about in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e839	I will join all those who today thank the everyday heroes for making a great effort out there. We're in an extraordinary situation. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Prime Minister and, in particular, the Minister of Finance, whom no one has mentioned so far today, and also the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, to stand up and guide us through the difficult time we are currently facing. For them too, there is an extraordinary situation. For us sitting here in the Storting, it's also a task to contribute to our efforts to share the capacity that exists in society. In the health sector, they are in a very difficult situation. There are also many in the care and care sectors in municipalities and in the welfare sector. That's where we have to look first and make sure that we have the capacity to endure. Then we also have to help in a division of labour. There's been a lot of talk about Nav today, and we here in Stortinget have to discuss whether there's a limit, and a roof, for Nav. And who's going to help when Nav doesn't stretch to? It's a real situation we can stand up to. The municipalities are one of the answers to that, which has capacity and flexibility. In Sel municipality in Inland, in my region, 30 are infected and 1 000 are quarantined. In the valley of Gudbrand, they are already embossed with many bruises. In the Østerdalen, however, there are no infections in the northernmost municipalities, so there are opportunities to use a capacity – in combination with technology – to relieve and relieve, to use neighbours in several ways. The banks also have a key role for us. In the first place, there is a lot of money to be managed and disseminated, and local savings banks have capacity and procedures. But the insurance companies are also actors that we have to consider giving greater scope for action in the situation we are facing. They also have the opportunity to withhold invoices and claims that are on the way out. The same applies in the municipal sector, where there are many fees discussed in these days. On the part of my committee, I would also like to say that the oil and gas sector, together with tourism and the marine sector, has too much export revenue, and also there is to be a working capacity to keep pace with a flow of liquidity that we in the country must have in order to meet this challenge. We also have to have an extra look at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e856	The President will then give the floor to the Chair of the Financial Committee, the representative Mudasar Kapur, for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e861	A brief correction to proposal No. 5 where it says 3, it's going to be the number 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e866	The vote will now, hopefully, take a short break in the debate to ensure full understanding of all the proposals that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e881	The vote will continue with the debate in Case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e886	Thanks to Stortinget for waiting. We have negotiated quite closely with the meeting, and that means that there was no complete agreement between the request decision that the Storting agrees with, and the law decision that was on the table. On a proposal for a law amending the Law on Permitting Wage on page 48 of the bill distributed in the places. In the proposal for Section 3(b) on specific provisions on the time of compulsory pay during the period of leave, a limitation has been introduced in time up to 31 October. It is the Storting's wish not to have such a date fixing or date delimitation, but that it should continue until further notice. That is why the proposal is to amend the wording of: «Specific provisions concerning the period of compulsory pay during a period of temporary leave» The first subparagraph will then be: «For a temporary period, the employer’s period is two days.» That's the whole change, and it corresponds to what the Storting has agreed on earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e899	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. Before we go to voting, the President, in accordance with Section 79 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, will propose that the third paragraph of Section 47 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy – on the deadline of 10 April for the submission of proposals and the submission of drafts of representatives – be waived. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e911	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. The President has reason to believe that voting will be unanimous, and that therefore the representatives do not need to press the voting buttons. So you don't depend on sitting on your own seat, and the president asks everyone to sit at an appropriate distance from each other. The President drew attention to the fact that the proposals that had been put forward were dealt with in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e1006	During the debate, Jonas Gahr Støre has put forward a total of 14 proposals on behalf of all the parties. The President drew attention to an incurrency in proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox There shall be 4 and not 3 at the end of the first line, and the proposal shall be corrected accordingly. In the course of the debate, proposals for a change to the Permitting Wage Act have been amended. The proposal is published in the Salape, repeated recently from the last speaker in the debate, and it replaces the proposal in the Proposition. The Government has proposed for Stortingen to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e1317	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e1328	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-14, from all lots. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure full pay for at least 20 days from the permit, of which the government covers from day 3 to day 20. [[up to 6 G]] This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The change will enter into force immediately and payments will be made as soon as Nav has a technical solution in place.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce a scheme to ensure that persons receive income of at least 80 % of the daily allowance base up to 3G and 62,4 % of the daily allowance base above 3G and up to 6G after day 20 of the leave period. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The change will enter into force immediately and payments will be made as soon as a technical solution is put in place by NAV. The income ceiling for entitlement to daily allowances is reduced to 0,75 G. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The change shall enter into force immediately and payments shall be made as soon as a technical solution is put in place by NAV.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a scheme to ensure apprentices who lose their apprenticeship in connection with the outbreak of the virus a guarantee of income at the level of the apprentice’s wages. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The change will enter into force immediately and payments will be made as soon as Nav has a technical solution in place.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reduction in the employer’s period for the payment of sick pay related to the corona pandemic to be reduced to 3 days. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The change will enter into force immediately and payments will be made as soon as Nav has a technical solution in place.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for self-employed workers and to free up sick pay from day 4 of the absence with the same coverage as under the applicable rules. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The change will enter into force immediately and payments will be made as soon as Nav has a technical solution in place.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to double the care allowance scheme. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The change will enter into force immediately and payments will be made as soon as Nav has a technical solution in place.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to reduce the employer’s period for the payment of care allowance to 3 days. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The change will enter into force immediately and payments will be made as soon as Nav has a technical solution in place.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the introduction of a scheme for self-employed and freelance workers involving the payment of care allowance from day 4, in accordance with the same rules as workers and with the same coverage as for sickness benefits for self-employed persons. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The change will enter into force immediately and payments will be made as soon as Nav has a technical solution in place.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a temporary arrangement for self-employed and freelancers who are now losing all or part of their income base as a result of the corona pandemic. These receive compensation where the coverage is about 80 % of the average of the last three years' income limited up to 6G. The compensation shall be covered as from the 17th day following the loss of income. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The change will enter into force immediately and payments will be made as soon as Nav has a technical solution in place.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks for proposals for further compensation for those who are particularly severely affected by the consequences of the corona pandemic.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «Government requests: - Defer payment of VAT due on 15 April 2020. - Defer payment of the second advance tax term for companies that are due on 15 April 2020. - Reduce the low VAT rate to 8 percent. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The amendment shall enter into force from 1 January 2020.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘In addition to this, the government will: - take the necessary initiatives to ensure critical infrastructure such as aviation. - Compensate private airports for the cancellation of airport charges. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. - establish State loan guarantees for all sectors concerned.' Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government requests the suspension of social benefit activity requirements until further notice.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that fixed-term benefits, such as redundancy benefits, are extended for the period so that the non-clearance does not now lead to the reduction of the three-year allowance for the recipients. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The change will enter into force immediately and payments will be made as soon as Nav has a technical solution in place.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-16.ana.ud210e1412	The President will request the consent of the Storting to the administration be authorised to rectify any legal errors before the second processing. No objection has been raised and it is deemed to have been adopted. Before raising the meeting, the President will recall that the next scheduled meeting in Stortinget is on Thursday 19 March at 9 a.m. 10, but that it may become relevant with several meeting days this week. The President therefore asks the representatives to be prepared to meet in Stortinget at short notice. Information will be provided in that case. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
