ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e74	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Helge André Njåstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e81	On behalf of the biggest representatives of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Erlend Wiborg, Roy Steffensen, Morten Stordalen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to remove the ban on house and leisure property.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e86	The representative, Emilie Enger Mehl, will put forward four proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e91	On behalf of the representatives Jenny Klinge, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to digitise the application for weapons and other processes in the arms management. On behalf of the representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete, Geir Pollestad, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself, I would like to make a proposal to cut the quotas for duty-free imports of agricultural products from the EU after Brexit. On behalf of the representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete, Ole André Myhrvold, Sigbjørn Gülsvik and myself, I would like to make a proposal to cut Norway's financial support to the EU. On behalf of the representatives of Sandra Borch, Willfred Nordlund, Heidi Greni and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to stop the expansion of the wolf's son in order to protect the so-called Elgang wolf. I ask that this proposal be dealt with in accordance with Rule 39(c).
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e102	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e107	On behalf of the representatives of Kjersti Toppe, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Heidi Greni and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure the protection of the elderly and to ensure the dignity of care during the coronary apathy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e112	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e117	On behalf of the representatives of Nicholas Wilkinson, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken, Arne Nävra, Petter Eide and myself, I will make a proposal on the fair distribution of vaccines, medicines and other technologies in the fight against covid-19. I would like to ask for dialogue with the Presidency to ensure consideration of the proposal before the meeting of the TRIPS Council on 10 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e125	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e145	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e162	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e169	I would first like to start on this matter as rapporteur of the case, and then come back with a post from the Left later in the debate. Norway’s human rights institution, hereinafter referred to as NIM, was established in 2015 and has been operating regularly since 2016. The institution is organisationally subject to the Storting but is independent. NIM shall promote and protect human rights in line with the Constitution, the Human Rights Act and other legislation, international treaties and international law. Under the law of the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights § 11, the institution shall make an annual notification to the Stortinget on its activities and developments in the human rights situation in Norway. That's this one we're going to deal with now. The main reason for having a national institution is to highlight the human rights challenges in Norway, to monitor and advise the authorities and others and to inform about human rights. The role of bridge builders among others the various representatives, civil society and authorities contribute to the important coordination, overview and systematisation of the national work on human rights. Through the NIM annual report, the Stortinget gives a good understanding of how human rights are being followed up by the government, so that the Stortinget can perform the function of monitoring that fundamental rights are not being violated. The Committee notes that in its Annual Report for 2019, NIM refers to the strong position of human rights in Norway and therefore the starting point is good, but that the annual report also shows that there are still important areas of society in which the work on human rights needs to be strengthened and further developed. In the annual report for 2019, NIM has chosen to make four recommendations. NIM points out in its first recommendation that in 2019 Norway was sentenced to four convictions in the European Court of Human Rights for infringements of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights in child protection cases. In addition, EMD has included more than 20 new child protection issues for treatment. NIM recommends that child protection legislation and practices should be assessed against the EMD principle that all care takeovers should be considered as a starting point. NIM points out that county councils and courts need to have a sufficiently broad and up-to-date factual basis and provide concrete justifications and balancing human rights when deciding on child protection measures. In its second recommendation, NIM refers to the Civil Ombudsman’s specific notification of isolation and lack of human contact in Norwegian prisons. NIM considers that the recommendations contained in the specific notification must be implemented and that the appeal mechanisms, judicial review and the system of free legal assistance in isolation cases should be reviewed. NIM further points out that violence and abuse in close relationships are a serious human rights challenge in Norway. In the opinion of the Norwegian authorities, the institution still does not provide adequate protection for more vulnerable groups. Therefore, as a third recommendation, NIM considers that the notified action plan against violence in close relations should identify vulnerable groups and include knowledge-based measures that ensure coordinated and effective protection of those groups. NIM points out that it is particularly important to establish measures relating to children and the elderly and that the role and responsibilities of the municipality must be reflected in this plan. The fourth recommendation of NIM refers to the coercive health care legislation and its practice, that it challenges human rights requirements. The NIM considers that legislative changes should be made, decision support systems introduced and thorough assessments of the knowledge base for enforcement measures should be carried out, and that adequate knowledge of human rights requirements should also be ensured for those exercising coercive measures. I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation on this matter, and I look forward to an important debate in the Grand Chamber. As I said, I come back to the post of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e190	Thank you to the case spokesperson, and thank you to NIM for a good and very important report. We should have actually treated him in ours, but as the situation is, we get to treat him now, and that's good. I am very pleased that NIM in the report this year has made very clear four clear recommendations, and I want to start by commenting on what is going on child protection. Both the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party say in the setting that we believe it is absolutely decisive that the recommendations in the Child Protection Policy are followed up. It is serious that Norway has been sentenced four times in the EMK for crimes against the right to family life. At the same time, we also stress from the Workers' Party and the SV's side that the children's right to protection against violence and care failure must weigh so heavily. This is a question of demanding balances between children’s and parents’ human rights and must also be the subject of political debate in the future. As we refer to the matter, we believe that the government should ensure that there are concrete grounds both for taking care of the child and for his/her return is not in the child's interest. We also refer to the proposal put forward by the Labour Party during the debate on the throne, and which was agreed on, where we asked the government to ‘set up an expert committee to review Norwegian child protection with a view to improving legal certainty at all stages of the service, where the best interests of the child are to underpin the work of the sample’. The Labour Party has for several years in its budgets pointed to the lack of inclusion in municipal child protection and the provision of ear-marked resources to strengthen this field. This is pointed out by the organisations of those added, by the Barneombode and by the Health Inspectorate. Isolation in prison is a topic we have debated a lot in the last year, and this is very serious. We are all well aware of the recommendations contained in the Special Notice of the Civilomebodsman to the Stortinget. The Red-Green Party in the Judicial Committee is clear that these recommendations need to be followed up. We also believe that it is important to ensure that Section 92 of the Constitution is complied with, and we therefore propose that the government should ‘ensure less use of isolation in prison so that Section 92 of the Constitution is complied with’. There is also reason to highlight the special position of women in prison. Neither the policy design nor the practice is good enough to take into account the fact that women are in a large minority and have specific challenges in Norwegian prisons. In recent years, the Labour Party has repeatedly developed the poor conditions for women's involvement. We know that women are at risk of zone more restrictively. Perhaps especially since the government of Solberg laid down a series of open prisons, women have been offered worse from the start of the settlement to the end of the settlement. Here I would like to refer to the proposals we make in connection with the examination of Documents 8:33 S for 2019-2020. Powers in close relationships are gross crime and a major social problem. It is simply a pity that we have not yet implemented an action plan against violence in close relationships. The previous one went out many years ago, and we know that this is a good tool because it's targeted, it's sector-driven, it's going to work together and evaluate. For many years, the Labour Party has called for such action plans to be available locally. As the Workers' Party writes in the setting, together with SV, the work towards and from selected in close relation is much about resources. Yesterday and the day before, we could see that hundreds of thousands of criminal cases were in line with the prosecution authorities in the police. The Labour Party believes that here's one of the big props that legal certainty and human rights violations against victims and against defendants can still happen in Norway. I would also like to refer to the case-speaker’s statement on coercion in the health and care sector. Here we think it is very important to follow up both the observations and the recommendations, and we look forward to the follow-up to the compulsory selection, which is also shown in the option. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party believe that we have to do more than just send the recommendations to the government, we believe that the recommendations should be dealt with in reality in the Storting. I will record the proposal in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e221	The representative Lene Vågslid has then taken up the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e226	The NIM's Annual Report for 2019 points to key developments and challenges in a wide range of areas the institution believes can provide the basis for a constructive debate on human rights. In the Annual Communication for 2019, NIM has chosen to make four recommendations: Reference is made to the fact that in 2019 Norway was sentenced four times in the EMD for infringements of Article 8 EMK in child protection cases. In addition, EMD has included more than 20 new child protection issues for treatment. NIM also refers to the Civil Ombudsman’s specific notification of isolation and lack of human contact in Norwegian prisons, further to the fact that violence and abuse in close relations are a serious human rights challenge in Norway, and that the enforcement of legislation in the health and care sector and its practice challenge human rights requirements. Various departments have explained in their replies to the Committee how they deal with the various issues and recommendations referred to in the NIM Annual Report. In its reply to the Committee, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs pointed out that the Ministry is working on several measures that will improve the quality of child protection, including: a lifting of competence for the child protection sector and a new child protection law. Proposal for a new Children's Protection Act was at the hearing in 2019, and the Ministry aims to submit proposals for a new law to the Stortinget in the spring of 2021. A continuous effort is being made to reduce the use of exclusion and isolation in prison. Crime prevention is developing action plans for prisoners excluded from community involvement with other prisoners. The challenges of isolation also underline the need for good organisation of criminal justice. The Government proposes in Prop. 143 L for 2019-2020, inter alia the reorganisation of criminal justice by ranging from three to two administrative levels and that this proposal is intended to strengthen the possibilities of good quality in the handling of complaints, legal equality and the conditions of the Directorate of Criminal Affairs, KDIs, in order to ensure consistent practices in the establishment. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is also reviewing the exclusion and coercion legislation in these days and is considering whether amendments should be proposed. The government launched a new action plan on violence and abuse in close relations in 2019, based on the obligations arising from the Istanbul Convention. The plan shall have a separate package of measures to address violence and abuse in Sami communities. The aim of the action plan is to facilitate the implementation of a comprehensive, coordinated policy against violence in close relations. The plan will focus on the violence affecting women to a disproportionate extent, but also on violence affecting other groups in society. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has started work on a revision of all health care homes, based on the recommendations of NOU 2019: 14. The recommendations of NIM are part of this work and NIM has made useful input to the work in its consultation opinion. A bill will be presented to the Stortinget as quickly as possible. We take NIM's findings and recommendations seriously. Significant work is being carried out in several departments on the human rights issues NIM promises in the 2019 Annual Report.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e247	It is very nice to be able to stand here and boast of NIM's work and annual report. We're dealing with it today, and it's not any organization or institution we're discussing now. In fact, it is one of Norway’s most important concerns, for they are to take care of one of the most important issues, namely the human rights situation in Norway. They shall make it independent and with great integrity. It is said that NIM is an independent organisation formally, but that independence can only be realised if NIM feels that they have political support in order to report in the way they think is necessary. I experience, when I record the courage and clarity of the report we have received from NIM now, and as we are dealing with today, that the authors have not necessarily taken into account whether or not the accumulation or government had to. And that's exactly how it should be. This is written with a great deal of independence and integrity and a little independent of how they perceive the Storting wants to receive it. It means that they have been clear and courageous in their criticism of essential things. I think that's very good. We have other institutions in Norway that work in the same way and are to receive the same support for their independence and integrity. These include: The National Auditor and, of course, the Civil Ombudsman, now renamed the Civil Ombudsman. For my own part, I want to add that I think NIM has been very accessible in my own large-scale work. It's also part of NIM's work to be able to advise the Storting continuously in what we're doing. In particular, there have been several cases in the Justice Committee. For me personally, it is a very short way to get to NIM both in writing by e-mail and via fast telephones to clarify difficult things related to the human rights situation in Norway. I do it often, and I also recommend my colleagues in the Justice Committee to use NIM that way, because I think that is actually very important. I would warn against the treatment of NIM’s annual report becoming a kind of mailbox treatment – that the Stortinge receives NIM’s annual report, but actually shows little willingness to deal with the issues that stand there. Mr Vågslid also mentioned this in his statement. I perceive that the government parties are somewhat polite and kind in reflecting on the content of the report, but do not show the willingness to enter and process the content. It is important to remember that the Stortinget has a constitutional, completely independent responsibility for the human rights situation in Norway. I believe that the independent responsibility for human rights in this room is not sufficiently fulfilled by looking at the NIM report, sending the report to the government and asking the government to proceed with this. We did this last year, and we have also this year promoted some issues about the very concrete reality of the area. In particular, this year it is about the conditions of isolation in prison, which is perhaps one of the most serious human rights violations in Norway. So let's do one more thing in the report. It is important to be aware that Norway, although we like to believe that we are the best nation in human rights, receives a number of reports from supervisory bodies in the world, especially from the United Nations and the Council of Europe. I have contacted the government about this earlier. There is no overall overview of the reports received by Norway from international supervisory bodies. Nor is there any overall coordinated arrangement by the government on who is to deal with the world’s supervision against Norway. I would like to say it this way: why should we believe that a country like Nigeria should respond to the United Nations' calls when Norway does not have a framework for how to follow up international supervision? We are also discussing today that we want a comprehensive overview of the advice, recommendations and observations that international supervisory bodies have brought to Norway, and we want a coordinated approach from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e268	Initially, I would like to thank NIM very much for the important work done in promoting and protecting human rights in Norway. Thanks for a thorough and important annual report focusing on areas of society where the work on human rights needs to be strengthened and further developed. We shall never take for granted an uproar about the human rights that we have in Norway. In recent years, we have seen trends in the world where human rights, democracy and the rule of law are weakened in many countries. It is precisely in such challenging times that human rights must be suspended and we must fight to ensure human fundamental rights in all countries. The emergence of human rights is basically good in Norway, but we know that the situation can always be better, and we know that fundamental human rights are challenged in political discussions and work. I am therefore pleased that NIM points out that two of the major challenges facing Norwegian society today are the use of isolation in prisons, and that there is a need to improve mechanisms to prevent violence and abuse in close relationships. It is alarming to read about the findings of the Civil Ombudsman in a special notice to the Stortinget, as pointed out by NIM, that the extent of isolation without decision is high in Norwegian prisons. The Christian People's Party will work to improve these conditions by working for national community rules, improving activities for prisoners and improving treatment provision for mentally ill prisoners. We know that isolation and lack of human contact are harmful and need to be limited, and we need to take action to reduce the risk of human rights violations in Norwegian prisons. It is also worrying to read NIM’s observation that violence and abuse in close relations are a serious human rights challenge in Norway. The Christian People's Party has worked hard to secure vulnerable children and young people against violence and abuse, and we are pleased that when the Christian People's Party joined the government in 2019, work was started on a new action plan against violence and abuse in close relations. We note that NIM recommends that the plan should also identify children and the elderly and include knowledge-based measures that provide coordinated and effective protection for these groups. Everyone has the right to live a life without being threatened or subjected to violence. Furthermore, I am pleased that Norway decided to ratify the Istanbul Convention in 2017. It is a innovation in human rights in preventing violence in close relationships. The Istanbul Convention imposes implementing obligations on countries. The Convention requires authorities to be more proactive and outreach in their prevention activities. This includes, inter alia: improving the training of child protection, health and police personnel to detect violence and threats to vulnerable people. It is primarily through prevention that we can detect and prevent human rights violations such as violence in close relationships. We know that not everyone is able to report violence on their own. Through the work of the Christian People's Party in government, we ensure that the Istanbul Convention is followed up in Norwegian law through the work of our action plan against violence in close relations. State obligations to protect children against violence and abuse. Children are a vulnerable group in society and have special protection under human rights. The Christian People's Party will continue to fight for human rights through its work and commitment to counteract isolation in prisons and to protect vulnerable children and young people, and we are obliged to work towards the realization of human rights for all people. It requires action, and there is a Christian People's Party set to participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e289	Norway’s human rights institution, NIM, has a central role in promoting and protecting human rights in Norway. Since NIM was established in 2015, the institution has been a strong professional player and a clear voice. NIM monitors and advises authorities and other actors and informs about human rights. The role of bridge builders among others the representatives, civil society and authorities contribute to the important coordination of the work on human rights. The Councils and recommendations of NIM are important and welcome input to government and ministry work. NIM has issued a thorough annual report, with four main recommendations to the government. In the position of the Judicial Committee, two areas for which I am responsible are promoted: the situation in prisons and violence in close relations. The government takes seriously the criticism of the Civil Ombudsman about the situation in the prisons. A continuous effort is being made to reduce the use of exclusion and isolation, with both legislative changes and improvements in physical conditions, which have also been a problem issue. Firstly, the Ministry of Justice and Defence is now reviewing the legislation on exclusion from the Community and the use of coercive agents in prisons and we are considering whether amendments to the rules on appeal should be proposed. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare also investigates the consequences of introducing a national standard for a minimum number of hours in common each day for prisoners. Secondly, the government is further working on new rules on the Board of Criminal Affairs, which was sent at the hearing on 13 November 2020. A well-functioning Board of Supervisors may help to ensure that the care of criminals and cooperatives is adequately focused on isolation. Thirdly, the government has invested in rehabilitation and new buildings, which will provide better conditions for prisoners and facilitate activation. Fourth, the Directorate of Criminal Welfare implements a new ICT system, which will be completed by 2021 and will provide a better overview of the extent of isolation. The implementation of some of the recommendations of the Civil Ombudsman requires cooperation between the health authorities and the criminal services, and such cooperation is also under way. In the case of violence in close relationships, there is a significant social problem. I would say that it is one of the worst forms of crime a society has, because violence, both psychologically and physically, is committed by one of one's closest. The government will present an action plan against violence in close relations in February 2021, such as: shall contain a separate section on violence and abuse in Sami communities. The plan shall contribute to the fulfilment of our obligations under the Istanbul Convention and shall also provide guidance for long-term work in which the aim is to prevent and combat violence in close relations globally and in a coordinated manner. It's like that, despite the fact that this has been a priority of many different governments, of different agencies and different institutions for many, many years, we still don't do much to prevent this. We still need new knowledge, we need new methods, we need new tools. Yesterday, the Prime Minister arranged a recording meeting on the occasion of the international day to prevent violence against women, which we unfortunately had to mark in Norway yesterday. We have a good professional environment, we have a lot of experience. We have to share this experience, and we have to use it to do an even better job in this very important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e319	As I mentioned in my main post, we have a situation in the world – fortunately – where human rights are woven together in an international system of surveillance. That's very good. The UN has a number of supervisory bodies, and it also has the Council of Europe. These bodies also report to Norway. At the same time, even here in Stortinget, we miss a comprehensive overview of the reporting of Norway by the international bodies, so my question to the Minister of Justice is: Where do all these reports on the human rights situation in Norway go to by the United Nations and the Council of Europe? Who in the government is responsible for following them up? And why does the Storting not have automatic access to international reporting in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e327	I heard the post of the representative, where he compared Norway to Nigeria, and my answer to this is: If any country in the world is able both to receive and follow up reports, it must be Norway. Both the Storting and the government have a big device. The size can even create an apparatus to acquire knowledge of this, and the government has a large apparatus. In all the departments where I've been, we receive these kinds of reports, which are a little different in character. In Norway, it is that we have a sectoral responsibility. It works very well. It is the sector that is being monitored, that receives the report, and it is the sector that follows the report. Among other things, I have in my previous department in Stortinget and reported on international reports related to the indigenous population in Norway. So I think we have a system where we both receive and follow up, and we do it sector by sector. We do not have one responsible for this, and neither should we. We should be responsible for those responsible for the day-to-day follow-up work in the departments, in the Directorates and in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e336	Thank you very much for your answer. This is a very important debate, I think, on how the follow-up to international reports in Norway actually works. The Minister here mentions sectoral responsibility. That means, as I understand it, that the various reports on Norway are going to be in the different departments. Then it's the different state councils that are responsible for following up. But there is no – and I ask the Minister to correct me if I am wrong about this – a comprehensive overview of the United Nations and Council of Europe reporting on Norway and the recommendations they make to Norway. And the government also has no ambition to provide a comprehensive overview of the international reporting in Norway to the Stortinget. I am asking for confirmation as to whether this is correctly understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e343	As far as I'm aware, we haven't created our own operationalization of international reports. We are following a system that works well, and in our opinion we do not need to repair anything that works. It is such that the departments receive the reports. They're open to everyone, and, as I said, if the Storting wants to make a base over this, you can. But it is the sector ministry that receives information, that follows up, and that also explains to the Storting in annual reports, in government budgets, etc., for its follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e350	Thanks for the answer. Then I think I understand this correctly. I just want to point out that the Stortinget has a completely independent responsibility to follow up human rights in Norway. This means that Stortinget also has a completely independent responsibility to follow up part of the international reporting coming to Norway. But I haven't seen the Storting being continuously briefed or have been gathered on the reporting that comes to Norway from the UN or the Council of Europe. And I miss it, because I miss the possibility that we from Stortinget should be able to take this responsibility properly. I ask the Minister of Justice to assess whether it could not be a good idea to make an overall presentation of this for treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e357	I can answer for the government's follow-up, and so I see, with my experience over a few years now, how we in the departments receive the reports, and how we follow them up, how we take it very seriously, I want to say that, and how we also report to the Storting through different annual reports and, least of all, the state budget. The representative asks what I recommend Stortinget to do. I'll be very careful to advise the Storting. The Storting has its own organization, its own device, and it's clear that Stortinget can create an information base for this if you think it gives Stortinget a tool. But I'm not going to get involved in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e364	It is very serious that isolation practices violate human rights. The Council of State tells a lot about the measures being taken, and yes, new prison buildings do some of the work. But the main feedback from the employees and their organisations is that the 11 million spent in the government budget to combat isolation practices are like drops in the ocean. What is the concrete solution of the Council of State to ensure that officers at work in Norwegian prisons have time to be in the community with the prisoners? Does the Council of State consider that the duties of the officers should be freed in any way? Is there anyone else who is going to take over and take over the duties of the officers today? Because there are not enough people at work to maintain the minimum that is now outlined that prisoners should be out of cells.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e369	I mean – and I've said that many times, we've had a lot of rounds on this, me and the representative – that we have among the world's best detectives. I tend to ask both employees and prisoners if there is any other country in the world they could expect to exchange criminal care with, and the answer to that is no from everyone I've met. That being said, I think we have some main problems. One of them is related to isolation, another is related to women. That is why I have explained – not just a little, as the representative says, but I think quite comprehensive – to five main recommendations that we are now following, relating to both land, ICT systems, resources, legal rules and supervisory choices, in order to combat isolation in prisons. Now this isn't a smart fix, this isn't done overnight, but we have to focus on this. I feel that criminal services do, and I feel that all employees do. We now have more full-time employees than before. That's good, that gives continuity. And we have more employees per employee than before. That's good, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e376	Sometimes you can wonder if we live in the same reality, because the feedback that the Workers' Party gets, and that I get when I'm out meeting the employees around, is that there are no more people at work, there are not enough people at work. But I'm going to give the Council of State honor to deliver on matters. It is truly a step forward from the former state councils. Now the KVU for the West has also arrived. The KVU for both Western and Eastern countries points to many major challenges in the old prison buildings, and before we get to grips with that problem, the solution is still that there must be enough people at work. State council says 11 million. Is there enough kr to solve the issue of isolation in Norwegian prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e383	To the last, I'll say an absolute no. This is why extra money and resources are combined with the usual resources transferred and with improvements and improvements. If there's something this government has invested in, it's new construction and rehabilitation, because it's important. I've now been around a lot of prisons, and when you refer to older prisons, I've been in two prisons about 200 years old. The difference was very big. In one prison, both prisoners and employees were very satisfied with prison, even though it is 200 years old, a very small one in the Horten with twelve prisoners — understandably perhaps. At least there wasn't mainly the areas that were the problem. Then I've been to other prisons, in Ålesund, which were similar old, where there's obviously a need for repairs. Work on rehabilitation must be ongoing, together with resources, changes in the supervisory authority, changes in the legal basis, changes in the ICT system and follow-up from the criminal justice system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e392	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e399	It is serious that Norway has been sentenced four times for violation of Article 8 of human rights on the right to family life. I am therefore pleased that the government is taking a number of measures that will improve the quality of child protection, among others. a lack of competence for the child protection sector and not least a new child protection law, which hopefully comes to the Storting in a short time. I allow myself to be optimistic about that. There are serious findings in the Civil Ombudsman’s special report to the United Kingdom on isolation and lack of human contact in Norwegian prisons. That is why I am pleased that both government and criminal services are taking this very seriously, and that they are constantly working to reduce the use of exclusion and isolation in prison. The Ministry of Justice is reviewing the legislation on exclusion and coercion and is considering whether amendments should be proposed. I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice has emphasised that the Civil Ombudsman's recommendations are central to this work, and that it is also considered to introduce a national standard for a minimum of hours of unlocked cell each day for prisoners. I would also like to stress the importance of new, modern prison buildings and the rehabilitation of old prison buildings in recent years, which are essential for reducing isolation in prisons. People experiencing isolation in prison also have an unmet legal need. I am therefore pleased that the Legal Aid Committee has addressed this in its report and is looking forward to the Stortinge to deal with a new legal aid scheme. Too many people experience violence in close relationships. There is a need for stronger and more coordinated work to prevent and detect violence in close relationships. That is why we are looking forward to the new action plan against violence in close relations with which the government is now working, in order to have a coherent and coordinated policy that both prevents violence, protects and helps the vulnerable, and makes responsible, deals with and persecutes perpetrators of violence. NIM recommends in its annual report that, in order to ensure that the use of coercive measures in the healthcare sector is not practised to a greater extent than human rights allow, legislative changes should be made. It is necessary to include a decision-making support system and to make thorough assessments of the knowledge base for enforcement measures and to ensure that the person exercising coercive action has sufficient knowledge of human rights requirements. The committee was appointed in 2016 and the Ministry of Health and Welfare has started work on a revision of the health care centres based on the recommendations of the NOU on the Enforcement Act. The issues mentioned in the NIM recommendations are part of this work, and we are looking forward to a legislative proposal being submitted to the Stortinget. Human rights are strong in Norway, but they must be fought for every day. Let's take that fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e417	In Norwegian prisons, there are more than 3,000 people as sons. The studies show that 92 pst. evidence of mental illness. This is not so strange, because although we all have to be responsible for our own actions and possible crimes, we, as a society and we as a community, must also take responsibility for the ability of people to comply with the law. When we know the history of many of those who are sons in our prisons, we can clearly see the traces of failure and betrayal of these people's growth and life – the failure and betrayal of those who should be close and closest, mother, father and family, but also of the community. If we as a community and our welfare state did not take responsibility for him when he was 7, when he was 12, when he was 14, and when he was 17 – yes, then we often have to take that responsibility in prison. This year it is 60 years since Jens Bjørneboe wrote his book "The Wicked Shepherd". The book contributed to the reform of the Norwegian criminal regime. Børneboe raised the debate on how we treat our convicted people. That's why it's a paradox that now, 60 years later, we still have an isolation issue and a practice that violates human rights. The problem has been raised in the Stortinget on several occasions, from NIM, from the Civil Ombudsman and from several of the representatives in this Chamber. The Labour Party knows that the solution to this situation requires concrete, binding and financial measures. The Workers' Party is ready for that, and we will take care of it. It will appear in our proposals, our alternative budgets and our forthcoming party programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e428	Human rights are not for parties, they are legal obligations for the state of civilisation and in the choices we are going to take for national law as well as for individual cases. It's when the elections are difficult, human rights are needed, because then it's not about what we mean, it's about what we have of actual obligations. I start this way, because when this institution was set up, I was quite active in it, and I'm very happy that we have it. But I want to stay a little bit with the law that regulates NIM. Paragraph 3, first paragraph, point (b), states: «advise the Stortinget». It was a bit of what my co-representative Petter Eide was about, namely: How is Stortinget going to get a comprehensive overview of how Norway follows this up, and how are we going to get help from NIM in our daily work? I lead the Municipal and Administrative Committee, and we are responsible for refugee and asylum policy, perhaps the most pervasive political area in both Norwegian and international policy. There we don't just need to be able to pick up a phone to NIM and hear what they mean, we have as a committee and as a big need to be able to consult NIM when, for example, we do. changes to the law which, in my view at least, violates our obligations both in relation to the refugee convention, and for example. as regards the right to family life, which the representative Schytz was up and talking about. It is not only in the area of criminal justice that we have a responsibility to weigh this against the right to family life, but also in all foreign policy. We have that in terms of our obligations to ensure an asylum right that is in line with our international obligations, for example. where UNHCR says we break our obligations when we have removed the reasonableness condition. We also have NIM input on how we treat lone minor asylum seekers under 18 years of age. What I want us to look forward to is how we as an institution, as a magnificence, and in our committee work related to the current legislative process can also ask NIM. We set up NIM so that they could advise Stortinget not only as a single representative, but as a body – whether we are in line with our international commitments, whether we are on the edge, or whether we are over. For Norway, they shall comply with their obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e437	I really didn't intend to draw on this matter, but I feel a certain need to help correct a picture drawn from this speaker who is very difficult to deal with. I feel that the left-hand side of its description of human rights violations is about to describe Norway as almost a developing country in terms of human rights – Norway, which is perhaps the world’s best country to live in, and where it takes its highest responsibility to protect the human rights of the population, although there are challenges in some areas and perhaps far beyond what is discussed in this Chamber, and I am talking about freedom of expression. It is interesting to hear comparisons with African countries and to hear that Norwegian prisons are almost described in a way that is difficult to recognise if you have had some understanding of what is happening in Norwegian prisons. Norwegian prisons are good, and I have difficulty accepting the reality description that is being made. And then we have to remember that in some areas, you might be a little bit overly obese when it comes to protecting human rights. We now have a case going on after a judgment in Gulating that makes it impossible to use body searches in Norwegian prisons in the same way as before. This is a situation where body scanners have not been put in place in the vast majority of Norwegian prisons. In this way, the name of human rights helps to expose Norwegian prisons to danger. It is therefore directly life and health-threatening for Norwegian prison employees because the Directorate of Criminal Welfare is so dedicated to implementing what is defined as human rights under the European Commission on Human Rights. And here's the problem. The question then is, in these considerations, until you get body scanners in place, do you have to accept that employees in Norwegian prisons are putting life and health at risk because you have to embrace something that is defined as human rights? This is really quite typical of too much of this debate. In many areas, it is not possible to distinguish between the fundamental fundamental fundamental human rights underlying good societies, which are fundamental to Norway as a nation, and the newly defined human rights which are growing in scope and which are becoming increasingly complicated for modern societies to deal with. We're dealing with them. The robber states don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e448	Now the representative Amundsen actually showed what I think is a lack of knowledge about what insulation is for something. If you imagine you're being isolated on one of the best suites of a hotel for maybe several months, it's still harmful. The problem of isolation is still harmful, although we in Norway have many of the best prisons, several of the new ones. Although the cell is fine, isolation is still harmful. I want to warn you about the way the Progress Party thinks. Although Norway is one of the best countries to live in and one of the best countries in equality, it doesn't mean we're perfect. That doesn't mean there's still a job to do. Later today we shall have an interpellation debate on openness. We are in Norway among the best countries in the world there too. We still have major challenges. One of the ways that a person can do so is: read about in the media today. This is a little bit typical of the Progress Party. Actually, it's not that busy with the human rights discussions. It's okay. But that one does not recognise the importance of what is in these four NIM recommendations, which are about isolation, choice in close relationships, coercion in the health and care sector, etc., I do not think this debate is fast. I am very pleased that the government party, unlike the Progress Party, takes the problem seriously, even though we may be a little confused about the way forward and measures. When it comes to the debate on scanners in Norwegian prison, I think it's a political responsibility to make sure that there are funds and to make sure these scanners are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e457	I want to take the floor to correct the incorrect picture that Per-Willy Amundsen's representative tried to draw from us. The picture I want to describe about the legal situation and the human rights situation in Norway is that the Norwegian legal state and the human rights situation in Norway are very good. Compared to other countries, it's very good. It should just be missing, because we have a well-regulated state, we have good control arrangements, things are to those degrees of care. But that does not mean that everything is good, because we have some significant challenges – which have been mentioned here – for example. related to the situation in prisons, inter alia: isolation in prison, and violence and rape. Human rights are about the responsibility of the state. If a man rapes his wife, for example, it is not he who violates human rights, but if the state systematically overlooks such conditions, it is the State that violates human rights by not providing adequate protection for women in this situation. Norway has a significant challenge — this has also been pointed out by several international supervisory bodies — that we are unable to protect women in particular, but also children, against violence and rape in close relations. With regard to the second point raised by the representative Amundsen, concerning the introduction of new monitoring or enforcement measures in e.g.: prison institutions must, of course, investigate the human rights consequences of it before it is introduced. I think it's about being real, and it's about doing things properly. I will reject that this is a challenge. This has to be done properly. The most important thing in this debate on the story of Norway is that Norway should also be a leading country in the world in terms of human rights. We have all the prerequisites for having an almost spotless human rights situation in Norway. Then we need to take the international reports and recommendations on Norway seriously. We were in the debate a few minutes ago. However, what appears to be small challenges in Norway in a global perspective must be taken with the highest seriousness. We must have the legitimacy to criticize other countries for their human rights violations, and then we must ourselves ensure that we keep our house clean and our path clean in this area, otherwise we have no power or authority to criticize other countries. Norway shall be and have the possibility of being a leading country in the world with regard to human rights. Therefore, this debate is important also in Norway, although the challenges in Norway may seem small in a global perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e468	On several occasions in Stortinget, the Council of State has mentioned that she has asked prison inmates in Norwegian prisons if they want to zone in another country. It is not so strange that the Council of State gets the answer she gets, because you probably get the same answer that the Council of State would get if she had asked if people would live in a country other than Norway. But in the world's best country, which we like to talk about as, it must be possible to set very high standards. It's e.g. a major and important requirement not to violate human rights. The Council of State has also mentioned on several occasions that she has visited my former place of work, Horten Prison. I know that they really appreciated it. It's amazing what they can do in Horten Prison – I'm also very proud of prison. With very limited resources, they've managed to do a great job, and it's no wonder they want to brag about it, because of course they're terribly afraid that the prison will be laid down. I understand that they're worried about that, that's why. In the case of the Gulating judgment, it is important. The Labour Party has a great deal of respect for the courts and the decisions of the courts, and we will in no way set aside human rights, as it could be said that the Progress Party was calling for. The fact that the government has not provided one penny of the state budget for the implementation of security scanners at all prisons in the country, as the verdict suggests, is directly incomprehensible. The Labour Party will come back to this when we deal with the State budget, and of course we will make a proposal and ask the government to put security scanners in place in prison. It must be a government task to ensure that our own institutions are able to comply with laws and new judgments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e479	That was a little bit of an interesting idea we got in the last few minutes. This is a typical example of when you are unable to take a decision on something that may be difficult to deal with. I agree that one should have been more predictable and put in place body scanners in Norwegian prison at an earlier time – that is quite clear. However, the premise is that it is okay for Norwegian prison employees to fear life and health – as has been said in Norwegian media, TV2 and the Daily newspaper have mentioned this matter – and to be aware of the fear that they are unable to use body searches in the same way as before, for example. to reveal hidden weapons. You're not willing to do anything about it, but you just show that you're going to put body scanners in place. My question is: do you live in the error that you think it's only for us in the Storting to decide that it will happen, and then the body scanners in place tomorrow are ready for use, the employees are fully trained to use the body scanners, and that the whole situation is solved that way? Of course not, they have to be purchased, they have to be used, people have to be trained – it will take time. All the time you haven't been there and you haven't been there, it should be natural that you should at least dispensate from the new provisions made by the Directorate of Criminal Affairs, which, of course, the government is responsible for not jeopardizing the lives and health of employees in Norwegian prisons. You can't say that straight out. The Progress Party proposes this in its alternative state budget. It is one of the things that is on the table in the negotiations with the government now, namely that you have to dispensate from this requirement until you have body scanners in place. Sometimes you have to make some choices here in life, you have to consider interests against each other. If, for reasons of promoting human rights in Norwegian prisons, you are willing to put life and health at risk to employees, it is not difficult for the Progress Party to know where to stand in that case. We want body scanners in place quickly, but we do not accept the premise that employees should experience that life and health are at risk until it is a reality. Then I record that SV in a good old style refers to the UN as – I kept saying – the bright hope for human rights in the world. Then I just want to mention: Remember who sits in the Human Rights Council, and remember that when some of these robber states criticize Norway, they don't do it with particular credibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e490	The representative of Marie Aasen-Svensrud has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e495	The Labour Party does not at all accept that people are not safe at work. Dynamic security may require people at work, static security now requires getting the scanners in place. If the criminal services seem to have to ask for a dispensation from this ruling in Gulating, the government will have to take it completely on its own coat. The last talk began by talking about the introduction of body scanners. This work could have been started. There must be a way of discharge from liability to listen to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e502	The representative Petter Eide has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e507	I just have to respond to the last recital of the Per-Willy Amundsen representative. In fact, the human rights situation in the world depends on us having good international supervisory systems. We are committed to international conventions, whether in the United Nations or in the Council of Europe, and Norway's obligation is to do what we can to meet those obligations ourselves. There is also a right and obligation to criticise other countries for the violations they have. This is a system – a web – that we create globally to ensure that human rights are a universal standard. Unlike the Progress Party, SV is very concerned that we should respect these international standards and respect them, and that our obligations and rights in this system should be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e515	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e532	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e539	I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on the matter. The proposal we are considering is a proposal from Karin Andersen, Freddy André Øvstegård and Petter Eide to ensure that children who have been exposed to the failure of the public, equal access to compensation regardless of the municipality in which they live. This proposal was also discussed for a short time here in Stortinget. In fact, the proposals were a little different, and they were promoted by the current Council of State Bollestad and the Grand Representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold, both of the Christian People's Party. Now the Christian People's Party is not in the Judicial Committee, but they're in government, so the question is whether the involvement of children exposed to inhuman violence is something that disappears when you go into government. Of course, I really hope not. We in the Workers' Party supported the proposals of the Christian People's Party at that time and showed, among other things, to the Focus documenter ‘A Sister’s Fight’, where grandparents fight for equal treatment for their siblings and justice after experiencing child protection fraud in Norway. The documenter shows that there are many different schemes for the uprooting of former child-restraint protection children and that, as a result, there is a high likelihood of discrimination depending on where one lives in the country. Unfortunately, this example is not unique. Unfortunately, there is still no change in the legal situation, and we don't really know so much about how big the differences are. That is why we have once again brought forward the proposals of the Christian People's Party. The proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party reads: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a review of the various municipal and county settlement settlements and compensation schemes in order to gain an overview of potential problematic discrimination.’ The reasons for the involvement of the proposers in the SV and the Working Party are obvious. There has been a great deal of discrimination in the different systems of upliftment depending on where you live in the country. We think it is very unfortunate if the systems of upliftment are characterized by great differences and coincidences. Moreover, the randomness and injustice resulting from today's system has been mentioned on several occasions, inter alia: by non-governmental organisations and individuals. When the NRK Focus documents were presented, it became clear that all the parties committed in 2017 to review today’s legislation. From the government, Health Minister Bent Höie spoke out, and from the Workers' Party, Vice-Chairman Hadia Tajik spoke out clearly. All parties should also be concerned in 2020 with the fair distribution of children who have been victims of the greatest injustice. I address the proposal of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e561	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e566	The general rules on compensation to which all municipalities are subject apply apply equally to everyone throughout the country, whether private persons or municipalities. Children who are exposed to public failure have equal rights to compensation from the municipality under general rights of compensation. The Compensation Act opens the door to cover the financial loss when the conditions exist. The importance of municipal autonomy also has something to say in this context. In addition to their obligations under the general rules on compensation, municipalities must assess for themselves how to prioritize their resources according to local circumstances. Voluntary charging or compensation schemes are in addition to the general rules applicable to all. We believe it must be up to the municipalities and county councils themselves to set up supplementary schemes. It is a fundamental principle in the right to compensation that the person who makes a mistake must also be responsible. A national system may water down the effect of today's rules, which are intended to function preventively, and which have also proved to be relevant to the recipient of the compensation. The limitation period has a specific provision for claims for compensation brought in criminal proceedings. However, even if the claim is out of date under the general rules of Section 9, Section 11 of the Parental Act allows the claim to be made for compensation, upliftment and withdrawal which results from a criminal offence in criminal proceedings, where the debtor is found guilty in the circumstances of liability. The claim may also be made in civil proceedings brought within one year of the conviction in criminal proceedings being enforceable, or the debtor shall refer the matter to the court. On this basis, we believe that the interests of the injured party have been taken care of. To the proposal to ensure that the justice system is better known, we believe that the starting point should be that the State informs about state schemes and ensures that the information is correct and up-to-date and that the Storting, responsible for this scheme, informs about it. The proposal for the review of State upgrading schemes refers to a thorough review in 2013 by the government of Stoltenberg, which concluded that the schemes should be maintained as they are. An important advantage of the schemes is that there are no specific restrictions on what can be applied for in return for justice. Anyone who has come out unluckily in their meeting with the public in relation to others at the same time can apply for justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e581	The proposers point out that there have been several examples of people who, when they were children, were exposed to public failure, not getting compensation, or that the compensation can vary greatly from municipality to municipality. Initially, I would like to say that the reason why Stortinget established its own compensation system was precisely what the proposers point out. The lavishness allowance of the Storting, now called the Grandhold's Judicial Remuneration Scheme, was to catch up with all those who did not reach anywhere else. Had Stortinget thought that all the municipalities had to have a system, the Stortinget had not had to make its own. Even I think it is a shame that not all municipalities have settled their own frauds, but you get the politicians you vote for. Fortunately, more and more municipalities and county councils have actually implemented a system, but with this we have also had a new injustice. Those who live in a municipality that was early in providing compensation have received a refusal from Stortinget. But someone who was looking for the Stortinget early, and who lives in a municipality that later introduced a municipal system, has been replaced twice. Taking a look at the various municipal and county compensation schemes to get an overview of potentially problematic discrimination, as some parties want, I see no use. We know there are big differences. There are several challenges in demanding equal compensation for all municipalities. This means that the Stortinget once again deprives the municipalities of their right of self-determination. That also means that we have to set one level and one set of rules. Should the municipalities that have had a higher level and a lower level of documentation requirements than what we may decide require reimbursement of the claims that have been granted? It's obviously unreasonable. If we are to avoid further injustice, then the maximum rate and minimum documentation requirements that exist must be introduced for all. Are all the municipalities that have actually taken responsibility to take up all the applications and re-treat them? In 2018, due to all these dilemmas, the Stortinget decided that the government should take the initiative towards KS to develop a best practice recommendation for voluntary municipal and county compensation schemes. KS is doing this work, and the Progress Party needs to see the answers KS can give us, before we might consider a change. It is also important not to forget that the general rules on compensation, to which all municipalities are subject, apply equally throughout the country. The proposers also want a review of State uplifting schemes. The judicial compensation scheme was thoroughly reviewed in 2013 by the government of which SV was part at the time, and it was concluded that it should be maintained as it is. The Progress Party agrees with Justice and Emergency Minister Monica Mæland, who, in his reply to the Judicial Committee, states that an advantage of the judicial remedy system is that there are no factual limits to what can be applied for. Any person who has entered a particularly unfortunate meeting with the public and who is not covered by any other compensation scheme may apply. At the same time, several of the ‘internat’, ‘coastal children’ and other historical groups do not feel that they have had their case tried because the civil law administration, which is preparing the cases, rejects them before being treated in the sample. It is well possible that they would also have been rejected from the sample, but actually getting the case tested for the sample has a high self-value for them. The size should communicate this to the sample, hoping that they will address the problem with the Secretariat. However, a review shows that some of these groups have been dealt with by the sample and have received compensation. Proposals propose to coordinate the legislation on compensation with the rules on limitation in criminal law, in order to prevent the claims for compensation from being invalidated before any criminal prosecution. The rules do not differ much compared to limitation periods under the criminal law, but we still choose to support this. The Rechtferd Foundation conducted a study in the autumn of 2018 asking 1000 people about the known justice system. Only 7 pst. they said they knew about this. The Progress Party therefore wants to meet their desire for more information about the scheme and therefore also supports this proposal. I refer to the proposal that the Progress Party has together with the Centre Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e609	Then the representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e614	In the 2017 election campaign, I attended a meeting in Greenland. There was also the representative of Kjønaas Kjos. And as referred to in the setting here: several were sent online, among others. Minister of Health Bent Höie, Hadia Tajik from the Workers' Party, it was a representative from the Left, I think it was Anne Sender who was there, and from the Center Party I think it was Kjersti Toppe. Everyone said that they thought we needed a common code for compensation for those who had been deprived of child protection in their childhood. For the big differences that are now, simply isn't going to live with. So here there are people who have been subjected to some of the most serious failures that can occur – as the council said in the previous case, violence from someone in the family is one of the biggest betrayals you can be exposed to, and when you're a child, it's obviously even worse, just because you're a child and helpless, and then you report from or try to call for help for child protection or school, and then you don't get heard – and then we're going to sit and discuss? This is a task imposed on all municipalities, to have child protection and to take care of these children. And when the municipalities fail that responsibility, it has to be up to the municipalities if they think they have to have a compensation scheme for this. The municipal maritime administration in these cases is being used against these kids, who have been subjected to such a terrible betrayal as this is. I almost don't think what I'm hearing here, when I realize that's the argument for being against this. There is no good reason for this to be treated differently from municipality to municipality. You can problem up and down, with retroactive force and everything you want – put in place a code that says there should be such a system in all municipalities. That's absolutely necessary, because there's a lot of people here who don't get any things, and a lot of people are struggling like the situation is today. We have put forward these proposals again. The last time we registered that the majority said they would send it back to the KS, which would make a supervisor. KS had already told the committee, during the examination of the matter at the time, that they would not have this. So you say you should leave this work, which is so important for people who have been so seriously wronged, to a body that says they don't want any rules. KS said to Stortinget during the treatment that they would not have any common rules. I understand that there is a lot of work going on in the government, and that's good. But there is also a need to get a review, so that we can see which holes are in the arrangements that are in place today. I see the government is pointing out that they're working on the victim compensation system, but it's on the hearing. We don't know how the government will conclude after such a hearing. There is now a need to ensure that we have a code that makes none of these cases obsolete in such a way that you lose your right. For everyone sitting in the hall knows that when you have been subjected to this type of assault, it can take many years before you can deal with it at all. It may take many years of treatment before you are able to deal with the injustice you have suffered. That's the knowledge the whole Storting has. Then we cannot have limitation periods that allow you to lose the right to compensation, or the person who has committed the infringement is free to do so. I am both disappointed and surprised that the parties present at the same meeting that I attended in Greenland have turned around, because the fact that these children should not be discriminated against from municipality to municipality is such an important principle. I refer to SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e633	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e638	A large part of the cases concerning compensation and upliftment are those that have been subjected to care failure in the area of child protection. These are persons who have experienced direct failure or abuse of child protection institutions or persons who have experienced that child protection did not intervene when there were clear signs of abuse and care failure at home. These are terrible things that have ruined the lives of many, and the public owes them an apology. In addition to the apology, these children, who are now often adults, should receive some form of upliftment or compensation as a sign of public recognition of the responsibility for the failure. This applies to children's protection, children in whom care and education have obviously failed, and others who are exposed to public failure. The most important thing is not necessarily the sum of the compensation, but the payment of compensation, and an apology from the government. Therefore, it is very good that over 300 municipalities participate in the scheme that pays compensation for child protection failure in the post-war period. The sums paid vary slightly, but the most important thing is that the municipality actually recognises the responsibility for the failure that has occurred. In addition, there are about 100 municipalities that do not have a pay-up scheme, and that is problematic. Therefore, the government has taken initiatives towards the KS in order to develop a guide on how municipalities should set up a scheme. In addition, there is a legal compensation scheme for the Storting. This is a system that the victim can apply for if they have not received upliftment elsewhere. Each year, around 450 cases are dealt with where the majority of applicants are exposed to child protection failures or training. About half of the applications are granted annually, and there has been a pay-up and an apology. The scheme now deals with fewer issues than before. I trust that the work currently being done in the department and the initiatives that are now going through the KS, together with the municipalities, will be important to ensure good upswing from compensation schemes in several municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e653	The representative proposal of the proposers has a great deal in common with that of Olaug V. Bollestad and Geir Jørgen Bekkewold, Document 8:165 S for 2017-2018. The Christian People's Party still shares the impatience of the proposers in today's proposal. However, the debate that followed on 4 December 2018 ended with a decision by the Stortinget asked the government to ‘start KS to develop a best practice recommendation for voluntary municipal and county compensation schemes’. Christian People's Party will not disqualify KS. KS is doing this work well, and on that basis, the Christian People's Party believes that we should now await the effect of the measures and the leaders that have been given and that have been set in motion, before we consider new measures, which the Christian People's Party will closely follow. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that the state should not intervene in municipal schemes, but we agree with the proposers that there has been a need for a review of these arrangements to identify the extent to which groups and individuals are discriminated against according to the municipality in which they grew up. We have a great deal of understanding that it can be perceived unfairly. The Christian People's Party believes this is unfortunate, as the experience of fair treatment is the very purpose of all the judicial compensation schemes. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers that there are weaknesses in today's system, which result in the exercise of legal protection different from the municipality to the municipality from the time of the search. This arbitrariness and injustice have been pointed out on several occasions, including: by non-governmental organisations and individuals, which KS is also familiar with. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that many have been abused in childhood that child protection could and should have stopped. It is often a heavy mental process to manage to deal with such matters. Therefore, many can wait long before they have the power to open up for what has happened. The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers that a limitation period is not appropriate for persons who have been abused. People who have been traumatised may have a long way to go to admit that they have suffered permanent injuries. We also know that not everyone is able to report violence and assault themselves. Therefore, just limitation periods are an area of Christian People's Party that has prioritised and is very concerned about. On this basis, the Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers in several things, including: there is a need for a comprehensive review of all the public redress mechanisms, both in terms of groups, and also of the amount of compensation to be triggered. We're working on that in government. The Christian People's Party has always worked hard to secure vulnerable children and young people against violence and abuse. Children are a vulnerable group in society and have a special protection requirement according to human rights. All people have the right to live a life without being threatened or subjected to violence, and those who experience being exposed to it are entitled to compensation from the state. That's what we're going to do to ensure that those who are exposed to violence get. As politicians, we are responsible for contributing to the end of child abuse. The voices and rights of the child victims must be at the heart of our work. The Christian People's Party has always worked to protect vulnerable children, and we will continue to do so in the future. So it was said that one might have stated such ideals by going into government. Then one does not understand the purpose of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party has just joined the government to work to improve the conditions of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e675	This is a difficult thing. The history of the various replacement cases is strong, and we have to choose wise solutions. I believe on a principle basis that the solution is not to establish national compensation schemes or national legislation for errors committed in the municipalities. The municipalities must be responsible for the errors of the municipalities. Other things would be to undermine both the autonomous responsibilities of the municipalities as responsible administrative bodies and to undermine the general right to compensation and, in particular, its preventive effect. The general right to compensation applies equally throughout the country. That some municipalities provide more than the obligations under the right to compensation must be up to the individual municipality. The solution is also not to review all public compensation schemes to see which groups are covered or not. Firstly, an investigation based on groups rather than principles would be unfortunate. Secondly, another investigation solves nothing in this matter. The compensation scheme for victims of violence is already under full review. The Stoltenberg Government’s investigation into the 2013 legal compensation scheme concluded that the scheme should not be amended and that new special schemes should not be established. KS is also well in the process of developing a best practice recommendation for voluntary municipal and county compensation schemes. Work could provide better and more coherent arrangements for both applicants and municipalities. I therefore believe that we should await the impact of that work before considering any new measures. So to the issue of limitation: it's important that the custody rules give the injured person time to take over the effect of an injury. I think the rules do that today, and where it takes a long time, we also have rules that take this on board. Our adjusted limitation periods allow the injured person time while being encouraged to clarify the legal situation, such as: the situation of evidence is not made more difficult. In addition, even if the limitation period is over, claims arising from a criminal offence may be brought before the courts or in actions brought within one year of a conviction. Furthermore, it may be for the public not to claim limitation in actions for damages. In addition, if the claim is obsolete, the judicial compensation system may provide some compensation. Information related to the judicial remedy system has been requested. This is the way — and it is important to emphasise — that this is a scheme which requires the exclusion of all other compensation schemes. It is important that each individual should know and not be led to believe that the justice system can be applied for first. We have information about the scheme on several public websites. It is also the case that the State civil law administration, which is the secretariat of the scheme, guides the individual making contact. So we can probably always get better in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e696	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e701	My question to the Council of State is about the law on the compensation of victims of violence. The Council of State indicated in its statement that a person is now working on it, and that the proposal has been sent out on the phone. When does the Council of State see that the Stortinge may have proposals for a new law? This is something we've been waiting for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e706	Yes, I know that, and that's why I had a lot of pressure – even in times like this – to get the matter out. I know that the representative has been an avid champion of this. We therefore sent a proposal to the hearing, which is now being consulted. I expect we'll get a lot of hearings that need to be processed, but we'll work out that matter as soon as we can. That's the best answer I can give.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e711	Thank you for that. My next question is about the decision we made last we address the question of compensation and the need for a review of the legislation, two years ago. At that time, the decision, which, according to the Labour Party's opinion, was too weak, was that the government should take initiatives against KS. What initiative has been taken since this Decision was taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e718	Actually, I can't answer that. This is probably an initiative that was taken just after the treatment, and then I was not the Council of State in this field, but I know and am informed about the work KS is now doing to the municipalities to make this best practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e723	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e730	I just needed to answer the claim that came from the representative Karin Andersen, where she pointed out a meeting in Greenland. That's right, I was there, so I really know pretty well what I answered. The Progress Party has never promised that we should force the municipalities to introduce a new compensation scheme that should be the same for everyone. But I informed at that meeting that I had spoken to the Ministry of Justice, and that the Ministry of Justice told me that they were working on several aspects of, among other things. the system of compensation for victims of violence. That's what all the parties were concerned about, that there are some arrangements we already have today that are national, but that have some holes or some weaknesses that we wanted to improve. That's what was communicated at this meeting. It's a little important that you don't turn into a promise that what we're actually dealing with here today, municipal voluntary schemes. It is great that some municipalities voluntarily make their own arrangements because they think they have done a terrible bad job. Then I encourage all the parties to deal with it with their local teams, so that all the municipalities get arrangements in place. It's free for all parties to encourage around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e737	I would just like to make a few comments on the article by Kari Kjenaas Kjos earlier in the debate, because it was claimed from the Progress Party that there is no need to review the legislation we know is unfair. If the Progress Party is in such a systematic overview, I would like to receive it by e-mail, because I think we don't have such a systematic overview – as the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and others asked for two years ago, and we should also have got now. That would be the best starting point for the road further. Then I register that the Christian People's Party in the debate says that they are working for this in government. That's good, and I hope we'll see some results of it, perhaps also in connection with the new election victim compensation law, which I'm glad the council says they're working to get to Stortinget quickly. Just a short, trustful concern from me: there have been some concerns, at least to us in the Labour Party, about what has been sent out on the phone to the new election victim replacement law. Some people are afraid that people are going to do this out of order, that the threshold is going to be raised, etc. I believe that the Council of State has also received a lot of hearing input. I hope it's taken seriously, so we don't do that when we get a new permission to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e746	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e764	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from the member of the government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e771	The Judicial Committee has examined representatives from Øvstegård, Kaski, Andersen and Knag Fylkesnes on the follow-up of falsely convicted asylum seekers in the same way as in the Nav cases. I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. The background to the proposal is that in 2014, the Supreme Court decided that an asylum seeker who had used false evidence should not, however, be penalised for falsification of documents because of the refugee convention rules on impunity. Since this 2014 judgment, seven people have applied for and been brought to justice, and five have received support and have subsequently been found free. In addition, criminal justice was ordered to review cases in order to prevent persons who were going to prison from being convicted. The proposers propose that the Stortinget ask the government to set up a review committee to review cases before the Supreme Court judgment in 2014. The Committee notes that, on the ground of the case, it points to the independence of the Public Prosecutor’s Office and that it is the Advocate-General who has to consider the follow-up to any errors. The Committee also notes that the recommendations of the Advocate General are that no further examination of the cases is carried out. Finally, I would like to comment on the Left's position on the matter. I would like to thank the proposers for putting the search light on an important issue of the rules of the refugee convention on impunity. However, we do not support the proposal here to set up a review committee to review the issues before 2014. The left is concerned that the independence of the Public Prosecutor’s Office is fundamental and that it must therefore be the Advocate General who assesses the follow-up of any errors. We also notice that the lawyer recommended that no further review of the cases should be carried out. The proposers wish to set up a review committee to identify further issues and seem to believe that such a review sample would be similar to the sample appointed to review Nav’s mispractice of social security legislation. I believe that this is difficult to compare. What the Nav Committee has done is to review how a misinterpretation could happen, and they have not gone through all the individual cases. On the other hand, Nav has taken the initiative to review errors in certain matters. The general rule is that persons who have been misjudged can re-open their case. The Resumption Commission is obliged to provide guidance to persons who wish to take up their case. Both in the interests of the independent assessment of the Advocate General and in order not to go beyond the general rule on resumption of proceedings, we believe that this proposal should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e794	Thank you very much to the President-in-Office, as I seem to have made a very good and clear presentation of the matter, even if we disagree with the conclusion. However, the points made by the rapporteur and the facts in the matter are entirely in line with what the SV put forward. We're dealing with a case here where an unknown number of asylum seekers have been misjudged, and have also been penalised, based on a later misinterpretation of the refugee convention. It is quite right that the case-rapporteur says that this is about different ways in which they have withheld ID documentation. So it doesn't turn out to be illegal under the refugee convention, and it's the Supreme Court that refers to this. They also point out that there is an unknown number of people like this. So we're facing some kind of criminal murder. We've discovered in retrospect that people are misjudged. Of course, the size cannot instruct the prosecution authority or the Riksadvokat, but the Stortinget must take some sort of responsibility to find out what we do when we discover a murder against a group. SV suggests, precisely because of course we cannot instruct the prosecution authority, that we get an overview of this by setting up a review committee that goes through these cases to identify these people, find out what has happened, and why. And then we also ask that the lawyer get enough resources to follow up on this, precisely because the lawyer himself suggests that a reason why they can't follow it up is the resource situation. Then we also mention that we believe that this group should have access to a legal aid scheme, and that is definitely the Stortings table. All of these three things, both research committees, resources for the National Attorney and a legal aid system, are things that the Storting can adopt to better address this situation. It rejects Stortinget, and I am sorry that SV is alone in this matter. And that's a little strange, because the Storting has had a lot of commitment to similar issues related to the victims of the Nav scandal. A total increase – almost everyone – has stood on this pulpit and explained how terrible it has been that we have had victims of a Nav scandal, that people have been unjustly convicted because they have been paid social security benefits. Why does the same commitment to asylum seekers not apply? You can really ask that question. And I have to put it to the Left Party, which very often goes arm in hand with SV in our understanding of how to treat asylum seekers. Why does the same right perspective not apply to asylum seekers as to Nav victims? We believe that in such cases, when we discover murders of justice and systematically false convictions, there must be a right perspective on the basis, regardless of who you are. The law must be the same for all, even if you are an asylum seeker. And the Norwegian court should protect everyone – whether you are a Nav victim, or whether you are an asylum seeker. I therefore think it is serious that we should in some way discriminate between Nav victims and asylum seekers. Both of these groups have been victims of mistreatment and are wrongly convicted for things that have subsequently proved to be a misinterpretation of the law. So I'm sorry that we don't get any more sympathy for this, but that's where the matter stands. I just want to point out that we in SV think this is a very unfair discrimination against these two groups. With that, I'm submitting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e811	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e816	The proposal addresses an important issue, namely legal certainty and how cases should be followed up for those who may be wrongly convicted. I will refer you to my letter to the Stortinget on 12 March this year, and I am pleased that the majority of the committee does not support the proposal for a representative. The independence of the prosecution authority from political authorities has been strong for more than a hundred years and has been regulated by the Criminal Procedures Act in 2019. It is, therefore, the Advocate General who has to assess how any defects should be followed up. The Advocate General has carefully assessed the follow-up to this complex of cases, including: by letter to ICJ-Norway of 6 January of this year and by letter to the prosecution authority of that same date. I am confident that the Advocate General will perform his role in a way that ensures legal certainty in this case as well. If the Advocate General needs additional resources, this will normally be handled in the management dialogue between the Department and the Advocate General. I do not see the need to establish a specific legal aid system to follow up on possible false criminal proceedings. We already have a sufficiently good system for that. Persons who believe they are wrongly convicted may request reopening. The Resumption Commission has the obligation to provide guidance and also has the power to appoint a public defender when specified reasons so warrant. Those who may subsequently be found free shall also be entitled to compensation for criminal prosecution and, in the case of compensation, they shall have the right to free judicial advice without any appropriate review.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e829	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e846	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e853	The Judicial Committee has examined representatives from Eide, Andersen, Øvstegård and Lerbreck to strengthen and extend the system of free legal assistance for victims of the social security scandal. I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on the matter. The proposers point out that it was known in the autumn of 2019 that Nav has misapplied the rules for including social security benefits to EU and EEA countries for social security beneficiaries residing in Norway and they propose that both the legal aid scheme should be extended in time and the benefits to be provided. The Ministry of Justice and Defence issued a circular in 2019 on specific legal assistance measures relating to the misuse of access to sick pay, redundancy payments and care allowance for temporary stays in another EEA country. It is therefore decided that Nav will review all matters decided after 2012 on sickness benefits, redundancy benefits and care allowance, in order to correct errors. All cases should be reviewed, and there is no need to appeal before a review of a case is carried out. The aim is to make new decisions in most cases before the end of 2020. The Government has also appointed a sample for external examination of the handling and practice of the EU Social Security Regulation. This sample shall include, inter alia: assess whether the misinterpretation that is the starting point of the social security scandal may have implications for practices in areas other than health benefits, redundancy benefits and care allowances, and whether the errors may extend beyond 2012. The first investigation of this Review Committee was handed over to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on 3 March 2020, and the sample provided the remainder of its investigation on 1 August 2020. In the light of this investigation, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will consider how this should be followed up. In conclusion, I would like to make some comments on the Left's position on the matter. The left shares the concerns of the proposers about the extremely demanding situation of many people after Nav has misapplied the rules for including social security benefits to EU and EEA countries. We are therefore pleased that an exceptional legal aid system was quickly established, and I note that the proposers are positive that the government has already set up an exceptional legal aid system. The review and review that must be carried out and the legal aid system established are comprehensive. If the Nav case turns out to be even bigger than what we have believed so far, then the legal aid system and Nav's review may also be extended to several cases. The decision on any extension is taken after the EFTA Court has delivered an opinion on its interpretation of the case. I am pleased that the government is so clear that the interim investigation from the review committee is now carefully assessed, and I trust the government's assessments of the possible extension of the legal aid system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e870	Nav is our everyone's safety net. That's where we go, whether it's about birth, unemployment, sickness or retirement. That's why it has to be a minimum that Nav understands, and that Nav shows the respect that we all deserve, and that we especially need if life is at all times a little skeptical. But that's probably not what most people experience that Nav is and does. The stories are many about those who feel down on, suspicious, or who simply don't dare to admit to the system Nav. Last Friday's Lindmo broadcast, we got an example of that from a guest who told us that she didn't even dare to contact Nav. However, the new Nav Director, Holte, could assure that he would like to have – and would work to get – a hub that is understandable and treats people with respect. That's good. The Nav scandal, which is the background to this SV representative proposal, is also the backbone of the new director. The scandal is awfully big, and it represents everything that is not going to happen in our somewhat egalitarian society. It is a scandal that strikes the hardest of those who have the least and who do not have to bear the extra burden of suspicion, of being deprived of benefits and even put in prison. This is behind the following questions: Aren't the same people supposed to be safe now that we're cleaning up and doing what we can to make them clean up and clean themselves? – thus giving an extended right to free legal aid, on which the proposal is based, and thus extending the legal aid system in time. I note that the Council of State believes that this is not a problem all the time that the people concerned can only contact Nav, and that the threshold is low, and that the Council of State will come back to questions about any extension of the legal aid scheme with regard to other benefits and the timeframe. The Labour Party, on the other hand, supports the concerns of the proposers that the legal aid system has been put in place by the government, not ensuring a fair clean-up for all potential victims in this legal scandal. We believe that it is a minimum that everyone can be sure that everything has gone right. It has a value in itself, when public practice has created such a legal scandal. All users of Nav are entitled to fair treatment, and we as society must be sure that we have done everything right now. A strong welfare state is an important asset for which we must fight. Then it is also important to ensure that everyone has confidence in all parts of our well-being. Costs incurred to ensure trust in our common welfare country cannot be counted only in dollars and cents. The Labour Party therefore supports the proposal. I take up the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e885	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e890	As the rapporteur and others have explained, this is a major scandal that has rocked the confidence of the welfare community, and it is very crucial that the clean-up and justice are now done in such a way that it is trustworthy for everyone. So we agree with the concern expressed in the proposal for a representative we are dealing with, and will stress that it is important that the people who think they can be victims are now followed up so well that they are sure that they are doing the right thing. It has its own value when it's the public itself, the welfare community itself, and their practice of the law that created the scandal. The government says that, in the light of the investigation by the Investigation Committee, which is also referred to here in the debate, it will return to possible extensions of the scheme later. That means that the government also realizes that this can be right and necessary. There is a step on the way, but we believe that it must be possible to take a stand for an extension of the system to cover other fields that may have been affected by the same type of error, without spending more time on it, so that the work can get started faster. Of course, it is also necessary to ensure a real opportunity to get help on issues that may have occurred before 2012. This legal certainty must also be provided in such a way that the mechanism is communicated so well that all relevant persons are aware of it and are given the opportunity to make use of it. The Review Committee describes the impression that there is a great distance in Nav between the first line, those who work with the users, and those who are the victims in this case, and that there is a great distance between them and the units that take overall decisions and design the information. It is important to look at how decision-making authorities can be brought closer to those who actually have direct communication with the victims in the follow-up to the review committee. In the hearing held by the Control and Constitutional Committee on the Nav scandal, the Association of Lawyers said that it may be difficult to trust that Nav himself will be able to do the job of identifying the issues that should be reconsidered and to arrive at a correct outcome. We have to assume that Nav has now cleaned up so much in their own systems that they will work hard on this, and that they will be able to build trust, be able to work so well that users will find it trustworthy. And it has to be combined with this legal aid scheme being so well informed that all potential victims are able to use it. We support the proposals made by the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e905	Thanks to the Workers' Party and the Center Party, who support SV in this matter. We get significantly more support here than in the previous case, and I am very, very happy about that. The Nav scandal is perhaps one of the biggest judicial scandals we've had in Norway in many, many decades – in modern times. I'm not going to repeat all of this, but summed up: many were wrongly convicted for things that later turned out to be a misinterpretation of the law, and a total stag has thought this was absolutely terrible and has expressed great concern about how these Nav victims are doing. We've also looked for different ways to come back and follow up on this. We in SV believe that we need to make better access to justice for the Nav victims, and that is what this matter is actually about. The principles of free legal aid are about giving equal access to the justice system. We're going to cancel out inequalities in people's private finances, so it shouldn't depend on the wallet to what extent they go to a lawyer. We're also going to lower the threshold of how we make the judiciary available to people. It is this which is the basic principles of free legal aid. We believe that today's legal aid arrangements need to be extended in order to better cover the situation faced by these victims. Here, I believe, and we, that the conscience of the great community, the conscience of the state, because this error has been committed, must also strike, and that we must do what we can to correct this error. So we don't go into detail when it comes to designing this legal aid scheme, that's not what this is about. We're trying here to get a majority for some kind of guidance signal to the government that they have to come back with a system that captures more closely those who are victims of this. There is a system in place, it was introduced a year ago, which is a small step on the way, but we believe – and we also commented on it then – that it is both bureaucratic and heavy: here, potential victims of the Nav scandal have to assess their own needs, and on the basis of that, they have to deal with their own case with Nav, a hub that is already overworked, and where there are long queues and takes a long time. These are people who may also have a bad relationship with Nav after all that has happened. So Nav is going to deal with the complaint, or the matter you raise, and then Nav is going to authorize back to the client if he needs a legal aid. It's very, very heavy and cumbersome. Substantial obstacles are being put in place to ensure that victims of the Nav scandal receive proper treatment related to free legal assistance. That is what these proposals are about, that we want the government to come back with a system that is simpler, direct and more intuitively understandable to people, and that should also not contribute to the additional burden of Nav, as the present system is set up. So we have to do what we can to help the Nav victims, that's our political ambition. We're going to lower the threshold to get help, and we're going to make it easier for the potential victims to have access to the state of law and legal aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e922	As a result of Nav's mispractice, a significant number of people have suffered injustice. It is a very serious matter with great consequences for individuals. The specific legal aid measure established after the detection of mispractice shall remedy the situation by providing free legal aid to the persons concerned. This measure applies where a new Nav decision does not end with full conversion to the benefit of the person concerned. The reason why the legal aid measure only takes place after a new decision is that Nav himself has taken responsibility for reviewing all the cases. I note that the Committee's minority wants to extend the legal aid measure so that potential victims get free legal aid even before Nav has assessed the matter. I agree that it is important that these people receive good follow-up. Nav has therefore implemented several actions in Nav to ensure that this is the case. However, we need to distinguish between guidance and legal assistance in the form of legal assistance. As I stated in a letter to the Stortinget of 10 March 2020, it is a fundamental principle that only the necessary legal aid is to be covered by the legal aid system. Nav will contact them in its new review. In addition, persons are encouraged to make contact if they believe they are covered by the scheme. There is therefore no need for legal aid to ask Nav to assess the matter. I agree with the Legal Affairs Committee that it will be necessary to assess at some point whether the legal aid measure should be extended. However, I believe that we need to await the legal clarification before this assessment is made. The investigation committee sees the matter as a system failure, and criticises the actors involved. However, the review committee stresses that it is up to the court to decide the legal issues in the case. The Court of Justice has asked the EFTA Court for an opinion on the resumption of one of the criminal proceedings. The case was examined by the EFTA Court a week ago. I am also aware that Borgarting has asked the EFTA Court for an opinion relating to a matter of daily allowance. To conclude now that the scheme needs to be extended, while there is a legal process in progress that is expected to provide legal clarification of the issues, I think it would be unfortunate and premature. With regard to the Legal Affairs Committee's proposal for Decision II, I refer to what I wrote on 10 March 2020. I believe there is sufficient information available. The County Council has made available the necessary information on how to proceed, and Nav has also referred to this information on its website.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e939	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e944	I believe that the proposal that has been put forward here is a good but also absolutely necessary proposal. We all agree, and we've been all along, that what we're facing is what's called a legal scandal. This legal scandal has a side by side that is the real motivation for me to take the floor in this debate, and it is that we see very clearly that this framework – and I will not be misunderstood on that expression – people who are often in a weak social position, and people who often have a long distance from the authorities. I notice that the Council of State here says that she might come back if the need almost gets legitimacy and is proved, but I would say here, directly through the President of the Council of State, that it would be a pause for all of us if we could maintain the consensus that this scandal must be remedied by rudeness. It may be difficult for us sitting in this room, and for – I was saying – the bureaucracy in the Ministry of Justice to understand how difficult it can be for people to turn to Nav in the right way and get the follow-up they need. At this point, I believe that the Council of State is wrong when she says in her post that it is not within the culture and purpose of the legal aid scheme that you should have legal assistance before you contact Nav. So the bureaucratic understanding of what's necessary is directed to show roughness to correct the government's obvious errors in the Nav scandal. That is what this matter is all about, and that is why I characterise it as a right, good and necessary proposal. It would have been in place if this room collectively took up and set aside all the reservations that are always to be presented when it comes to helping those sitting at the bottom of the table, and quite simply in this context said: This we must cut through, here we must have noise arrangements, here we must ensure that those who are affected get the legal and social security needed at an early stage, so that they have people to help themselves in the situation they often sit in very alone, and that they are affected in a completely unjust way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e953	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e971	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e978	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in the matter. It is clear that the Committee wishes this evaluation to be as good as possible. In the extraordinary situation we're in, and the time we've been through, I think everyone agrees that it's extremely important that we have the best possible access to knowledge to prepare us for similar situations in the future. The legislative proposal before us provides access to information necessary for the Commission to carry out its work in a good and efficient manner. We get rules on access to information, professional secrecy, authorisation for the processing of personal data and the prohibition of proof of the information received by the Commission. This is effective and functional, but it also balances privacy considerations in a very good way. It is important to stress that the confidentiality of the information provided by the parties shall also include the members of the Commission. Once again, I would like to thank you for a good cooperation on important rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e987	The majority is to consider today the Government's proposal for a law on access to information for the Corona Commission. The Government is committed to providing the best possible basis for evaluating the management of the covid-19 outbreak by the authorities and making recommendations for better future preparedness and crisis management. The most central part of the legislative proposal is that anyone can provide information to the Corona Commission without restriction of professional secrecy. In order to carry out its mission, the Commission has a strong need for information and, in some cases, may include information related to confidentiality. The access to information will be too uncertain and may not be sufficient to rely on consent or other exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy, or on anonymised information. The legislative proposal will therefore ensure that the Corona Commission can carry out its mission in a good and effective manner. The derogation shall apply only to the Korona Commission and only to information necessary for the Commission to carry out its mission. The proposal therefore provides for a limited exemption from the obligation of professional secrecy. It is important that the data protection of individuals is ensured in the best possible way in the context of the Commission’s work. The Commission may receive some very sensitive information and it is important to ensure confidence in the Commission's management of such information. The legislative proposal therefore imposes on the Commission an obligation of professional secrecy equivalent to that imposed on it by the Commission. This will enable sensitive information to be shared with the Commission and will provide the Commission with the best possible knowledge to fulfil its mission. I would like to stress that the bill does not impose an obligation to provide information to the Corona Commission. It is considered that it would be desirable to cooperate with the Commission and provide the information requested by the Commission. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the right of access to the Commission is basically the same as with other public bodies. The legislative proposal does not restrict the transparency of the Corona Commission in any way. The situation thus facilitates transparency and debate on the work of the Commission. I am pleased that a joint committee is behind the government's proposal. This law will help to ensure that the Corona Commission can carry out its mission in a good and effective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1004	The left believes that a lot of openness strengthens democracy. After important events, it is also important to evaluate what was done well, and what could be done better, so that we learn the next time something similar happens. The decision to shut down the country due to the coronary apathy was dramatic, and it is important to evaluate the process that led us there. The preparedness at the front of a pandemic must also be evaluated. That is why I am pleased that the government is already putting down a commission to put the search light on how the government handled and handled the Corona situation. The legislative proposal ensures that the obligation of professional secrecy does not hinder the sharing of information with the Commission, but does not impose an obligation to provide information to the Commission. Rules are also in place to ensure that information received by the Commission is handled in a satisfactory manner. It is very important that this work be carried out in the best possible way and that we at the same time maintain data protection in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1013	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1031	A strong democracy is largely characterised by publicity, openness and the ability to have transparency in public processes. Public sector needs to set the gold standard for publicity and openness, and we think he can't have lower ambitions than that – and here's a way to go. Some of the conclusions of the 2016 public law evaluation were disappointing: the evaluation showed, among other things, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t bad statistics on transparency requirements, making it more difficult to assess whether the laws actually work morepublicity assessments are random and do not ensure optimal transparency the law is circumvented – consciously in some cases – and internal documents are too often excluded from transparency When the Riksrevision year after reviewing the archiving and openness of the government administration, a number of similar facts were found. ‘Requirements whether transparency can be addressed in a significantly better way. The review of transparency often fails’ concludes the Riksrevision. The pandemic we are still in has led to major challenges for openness and transparency. Having press conferences daily is not the same thing as being good at publicity. As the Press Public Committee has pointed out: Available government councils and administrators are not the same as openness. According to the same selection, public law and established practices have been widely broken. It points to late reporting, unnecessary secrecy and lengthy processing. A criticism that the Labour Party and several opposition parties have raised is among other things. that professional assessments of infectious diseases measures were not published in ours. The general rule of publicity of the law applies, of course, to covid-19-related issues — exceptions to transparency must have sufficient concrete grounds for doing so. Some departments tried in the early stages to argue that the public promise was not valid, but fortunately it was finally established by KRD that it is not limited. It is in crises that this law must work. And that's also good reason to think that contingency plans must have requirements for public law to be complied with. We can understand that in a difficult and demanding crisis at first, both arms and legs must be staggered, but the publicity line on which the government has invested over time is critical. Here are a number of people who have criticized the government, everything from the Barneombode, press themselves and several law professors. Before this interpellation, the Storting gave information access to the lowered Corona Commission. No one had countermeasures in their ears. But it is very important to go under what the Council of State itself said in its statement, that public law also applies here. It will be absolutely central to this Commission to aim at the most possible openness. There are several people who have already pointed out that there is too much secrecy around the Commission right now. One has pointed to regulations that we haven't seen, but as the government has seen, which also restrict the ability to see. This concerns me, and I'd like to ask the right-wing council for their thoughts and opinions on this. I can mention that previous commissions, like the Gjørv Commission nine years ago, also had to stick to public law in the usual way. It gives a Commission legitimacy and trust. Today, we can also see in the daily newspaper a case about the use of text messages, and that one cannot see the text messages that went between health peaks and government in the days before Norway closed down on 12 March. I fully agree with the Health Commissioner, Ingvild Kjerkol, who has said that at a superior level, the public should know how the government came up with such intervention. We have several examples that important bases for decisions are kept away from public opinion in the pandemic. Then it's hard to ask the right questions – whether it's in Stortinget, or whether it's like a journalist. The example of the crown is perhaps the criticism that came after the report that showed how the corona measures affect children. I think it must be possible to get the necessary resources to ensure that more disclosure is preserved. In times of crisis, several departments are under an enormous pressure — and we understand that very well — but there may be other departments that are not. There is reason to recall that the 2016 Social Security Communication states: ‘The media and the public press are calling for a common media strategy among key actors.’ What common strategy did the government have in our country? Is he in place now? Some of the criticised practices in the first phase were corrected by, among other things. proposals by the Labour Party, which were made during the debate on the throne. At that time Stortinget decided: that the government must make publicly available the professional basis for new infection protection measures before being advertised; the government has to make concrete assessments of more publicity when asked for transparency in the collective patient numbers for each health region in the context of covid-19; I think it's decisive before the next crisis frames us that we have a system to treat openness and public transparency. When it's most needed, it has to be in place. A natural place to start is to follow up the evaluation we've been waiting for for almost five years. In December 2017, the impending Minister of Justice said that the department was in progress and that the result would lie ahead during 2018. There was nothing coming. During the press publicity seminar in September, the Minister of Justice said to me in the debate that she could not promise that something would happen during this big period either. I hope the Minister of Justice has thought a little more about this since we debated it in September and might have something else to say in the United Kingdom today. The working party is impatient. I think more grips can be taken. It should not be such that one can circumvent the intentions of public law through, for example. removal or privatisation of public functions and responsibilities. The violation of public law should be punished with fines. Here I would also like to hear what the Council of State thinks about these proposals, which others have also presented. A simple example of how one today deals with the law is privatisation or exodus. We have e.g. Path NOR Eiendom AS, to use it as an example, which is one of Norway's largest property actors, who manages and operates public property. In 2017, a merger was carried out, and parts of it were raised from among others. the daring railway station. Now the company is not covered by any public law or archive law. In several contexts, we know that the organisation at municipal, county and state level leads to an excessive exemption from public law. And we all know a very good example from Norway Bank's main board of directors, who failed to lead the most current candidate on the public search list. Then we got a cause, but here broke a public promise with consideration. In addition, the National Audit Office has demonstrated that the training of transparency and the deliberate circumvention of reporting obligations is also common because one wishes to prevent transparency. There is no doubt – and I believe that the Council of State agrees: there is a need to follow up the evaluation that will soon be five years old. And it's disappointing that we haven't done it before. I would like the member who was Minister of Justice in 2017, who had almost finished it in 2018, to have completed it. Anyway, I look forward to an important interpellation debate. I hope we can at least talk a little bit about what measures you think it makes sense to get in place. And then I hope that the Minister of Justice sees advice to do something to follow up the evaluation before this majority period is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1097	The next speaker is Councillor Monica Meland. I hope the council has a driver as much as they drink.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1102	Governments have drivers, President, and I think that's just as good these days! Let me first underline that the right of access to administrative file is a fundamental democratic principle. This right is an important part of freedom of information and a prerequisite for an informed societal debate. The government is committed to supporting transparency and does not wish to weaken it in any way. The background to the evaluation of public law was that in the adoption of the new public law, the Storting asked the government then to carry out an evaluation focusing on achieving the objective of increased transparency. The evaluation was carried out from November 2014 to January 2016 by the company Oxford Research, which delivered its final report in January 2016. The evaluation report covers a large part of public law and other aspects of transparency. Oxford Research examined, inter alia: the development of transparency in administration, transparency and record-keeping procedures, resource use related to transparency practices, complaint procedures under public law, and the perception of law and its practice by users. The evaluation report is comprehensive and contains a number of important findings. I would first like to point out that several of the findings in the evaluation report must be considered positive. Oxford Research concluded that the introduction of the new law from 2006 as a whole has been positive. It appears that more transparency has probably been provided under the applicable law than under the previous law. Just as this is due to, it is difficult to say something about it safely, but it seems that the intention of more transparency has been achieved. There has been a clear increase in the number of requests for transparency following the introduction of the existing law, and it is also likely to be easier to obtain transparency. Furthermore, the report states that the introduction of the law has led to increased attention and increased knowledge of the public and transparency of the administration in general and that establishments subject to the law have reviewed their reporting and processing procedures for transparency requests. All of this is clearly positive, suggesting that the introduction of the new law has strengthened transparency. Effective transparency depends not only on good regulation but also on solutions that enable the public to find and request the public documents. The evaluation report draws attention to improving technological solutions, such as: Public electronic mail records, abbreviated OEP, have made public documents much easier for the public. In this area, there have also been developments in the period following the delivery of the evaluation report. In February 2018, OEP was replaced by the new eInsight Transparency Solution. The new solution provides better and more effective transparency functions and facilitates full-text publication of documents for bodies that wish to do so. EEnsouragement is organised in such a way that the solution can be used by both state enterprises and municipalities. This simple access to electronic records makes public administration open and accessible to citizens, and it is a clear strength for transparency. Thus, although there are many positive findings in the evaluation report, the report also identifies several challenges related to the current public law and to the practice of the law. I cannot address all the findings here, but let me mention some challenges related to varying knowledge of the law, circumvention of rules, lack of record-keeping and challenges related to the complaints mechanism. These and several other challenges were also raised when the evaluation report was being consulted. The report was sent to the hearing in February 2016. In addition to commenting on the evaluation report, the Hearing Officers were invited to make presentations on the need for concrete legislative or regulatory changes in this area, regardless of whether the issues were addressed in the report. The Ministry received a large number of hearing replies and these replies covered a variety of themes and provisions of the law. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has worked hard on these hearings, and I mention some of what has been found here. Several of the challenges highlighted by the evaluation report and subsequent consultation are of a quarantine, excuse me, character — here the sink is already starting to work, President — which cannot be resolved primarily by legislative changes. One important finding in the evaluation report was that knowledge of the legislation varies widely, and in some establishments it is low. This found in the evaluation report must be seen in the context of the fact that several hearing bodies have recorded that the application of the legislation is demanding. In particular, several hearing bodies state that it is demanding to apply provisions of the law containing discretionary conditions. At the same time, it is unlikely that such conditions will often be necessary and that many decisions under the law will be discretionary. In order for the law to function properly, it is central that those who practice the rules have the necessary competence. This is a type of challenge that cannot be addressed primarily by legislative changes; other instruments must be used. Increased guidance and knowledge-building are needed. In this area, each enterprise has a responsibility to ensure that its employees have the necessary competence, while at the same time having the overall responsibility for the legislation, we have to do what we can to facilitate the proper exercise of the rules by the employees of the administration. The Ministry has already developed a comprehensive and comprehensive guide to public law. The guide provides answers to a number of questions and issues that may arise from the application of public law and is available electronically to all. My clear impression is that this is well-known and widely used in administration, and that it is perceived as an important tool. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is also working to develop an adviser on administrative confidentiality and information obligations. An investigation which constitutes a proposal for a guide shall be carried out at the hearing and the Ministry is now in the final phase of this work. The Oxford Research evaluation report shows that the exception for confidentiality-related information is among the most widely used exceptions in the law. At the same time, several hearing bodies have indicated that this derogation is difficult to apply. The new professional secrecy guide shall be practical and shall apply across sectors. I hope and believe that this will help case handlers who apply public law and other administrative laws. A central point here is to get out when you have obligations to provide information, and when you have the opportunity to do so. The supervisor will thus help to ensure that no exceptions are made to the scope of this Directive, while ensuring that information relating to confidentiality is not disclosed. Different learning arrangements related to public law are also being worked on, without me being able to go into detail about this here. Other challenges addressed in the evaluation report and from the consultation round also need to be addressed by instruments other than legislative change. This applies, inter alia, to: reports on the circumvention of the law. It is clear from the evaluation report that examples of circumvention of the law have been found. The extent of this has not been possible to say anything about it safely. To this I would say that conscious circumvention of the law is unacceptable and shall not happen. The right of transparency of the public depends not only on good regulation but also on the proper respect and practice of the rules. This must be worked on continuously and in different ways, and it cannot be achieved by changing the law alone. Lack of reporting is also a major challenge. The evaluation report shows that there is a considerable variation in the extent to which different types of documents are recorded. While letters and other traditional documents are made even more journal-worthy, this applies less to e-mails and the more untraditional and recent types of documents. Here, too, I think there is a need for increased awareness and training. This is likely to be of greater importance than any legislative changes. Changes to the rules in this specific area should be made in the context of a major review of the current archive legislation. There was a NOU with proposals for a new archive law last year, and this is now being followed up by the Ministry of Culture. Publicity and transparency is an area that creates great commitment, and opinions crack a lot. Among the hearing bodies that proposed legislative and regulatory changes, there were a number of new or extended opt-outs or other restrictions on access rights. Implementing all these proposals would therefore, overall, result in a loss of transparency, which I consider to be totally inappropriate. The Ministry has recently also promoted other legislative proposals that are closely related to transparency. A proposal to amend the rules on access to information relating to confidentiality with other administrative bodies is now under consultation, with a deadline of 1 December. This has been a demanding job, but I believe that good solutions are now being developed in practice. We are concerned that the evaluation is being followed up. We have therefore implemented a number of measures without sending legislative changes to the hearing. So the representative mentioned a number of questions. I'm going to give priority to answering two of them. One is the Korona Commission's prescription homes, which the representative said the Storting didn't know. I'm really counting on the Storting to do that, because they've been at the hearing, and they're of course published. This is not about restricting transparency; it is about a division of labour with regard to who is dealing with the requests. Here we have not built up a large bureaucracy around the Corona Commission, so the body that has issued the document also deals with the transparency request.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1155	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. Obviously, there are also positive findings in the evaluation, but what we might want to do is find those that are not positive. I thank you for describing the evaluation, but my interpellation is likely to focus a little more on what action the Council of State sees it to be able to assess, and on what time it could possibly come to the Stortinget with it. I interpret the answer so that – as was said in September – there is no reason to come to the Stortinget with any action before the session is over. It has been suggested, by the Labour Party too, that one should ensure that there are sanctions in the event of a breach of public law. What does the Council of State think about that? There have also been proposals to establish independent supervision. What does the Council of State think about that? There are also others who have pointed to the work area of the law. It would be interesting to right state council opinions on it. It is clear that state, county and municipal enterprises do not operate for themselves; they manage a great deal of responsibility and money on behalf of the community. Then, of course, we must practice openness and transparency. That's what I mentioned in my main post about the possibilities of letting go of public law, for example. corporate structures, etc., are something we should definitely do with. We're talking about big money that's money to the community, and as an absolute should ensure openness and transparency. I hope that I can get a little more specific answers to perhaps the most recent actions that have been raised in the debates that have taken place. I would also like to stress that I know the regulations – I just wanted to stress that it is not the Storting that decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1170	The interpellant asked me in the interpellant to explain the point of view of the findings of the report, and I tried to do that, as well as trying to explain the follow-up we have done, for it is given an impression that everything has remained silent. Now it was said that nothing has been heard in five years, but from December 2017 to November 2020 three years have passed, and during that time there has been follow-up on knowledge and guidance. I, who also have a past from a municipality, experience that a lot of resources are being used in this field. I believe that there are record numbers employed in both municipalities, county councils and state businesses to follow-up requests for transparency, public disclosure law, administrative law, etc. So it's trying, but it's hard for many. Not least, there are discretionary judgements to be made by individual case handlers. Questions are raised about fines and supervisory activities. In general, I think that the public sector is large enough and that we have enough supervision. We certainly have one that can handle this field as well, if you think there was a need for extra supervision related to this. I guess I don't think the need is so great. I see that there are also a number of claims about lack of transparency in the coronary situation. I deeply disagree with that. There were record requests for transparency, and they were dealt with. The vast majority also gained insight, but some cases took longer. For example, the Ministry of Justice and Defence received a request for access to all the documents we have sent to the Corona Commission. There are 1,000 documents, and each one is to be reviewed by people. We have. We've been using six-eight people on this one request. It shows how extensive this work can be, but we must take it seriously. And as I said, I think it was 114 hearing replies that came in connection with this evaluation, and most wanted a narrower disclosure law, not an extended law. So there's a lot of hard questions. We're working on this, and I'm not going to pre-shoot the answers to this work. I want to go to work thoroughly. I have also been very honest about the fact that in a situation where we work with a lot of big and heavy things, as well as dealing with a crisis, we must desperately give priority. Therefore, I have also been very honest that we are not going to get any legal work before Easter, which is the deadline in this session.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1185	There is no more who has participated in the debate, but if the interpellant wants a closing post, she has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1190	Thank you for the long debate. No, it was nice to have an exchange with the state councils on the subject of the subject. Public law means a lot and is very important in both municipalities, state and state. What I may have thought a little disappointing is that – but the Council of State should have for it to be honest – there will be no changes in the promises made by the government based on the 2016 evaluation during this majority period. It seems to me in the Labour Party that's a shame. It's really funny that former Minister of Justice Per-Willy Amundsen, as he was in the committee, who left the room instead, when this case started, said that one had almost finished working in 2018. But that's the way it is. We thought that was very unfortunate. I think there is a need to intervene, both in the case of violations of public law, in the case of the field of activity, and in the case of the challenges of both privatisation and exclusion. If we are to be able to follow up on the most serious findings in the 2016 public law evaluation, the country needs a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1195	Would you like a final article from the Council of States? - That's not necessary. Then there's case no. 7 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1213	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1220	For approx. Exactly one year ago, a Document 8 on tourism taxes was presented and introduced in Norway. The business committee discussed the matter in our committee, and we chose to postpone it. You know what happened on March 12th, we shut down, and the travel industry is one of those very strongly affected. The Committee has referred to the letter of response from the Council of State of 15 October 2020, where the Council of State stressed that co-financing is an important issue of travel life policy and would be a central theme of the government’s further efforts to facilitate sustainable travel. The Committee is pleased and an overall committee has referred to it and underlined the importance of travel. I actually think some of the little good that has come out of this pandemic is that we have realized that travel life is a very big and important industry with its 170 000 employees, and that it means a lot to those who come and visit us, but perhaps also to those offers in travel life that are for the residents of the places that have visitors. The Committee has unanimously agreed that some areas in the country have challenges related to many coming to visit within a short period of time. Nature-based travel creates challenges related to garbage management, septic handling, parking facilities, and for some areas it has been pointed out that there is currently no contractual basis or basis for charging for their services. State nature conservation areas, such as: Hauklandsand in Lofoten has been told that they cannot charge for parking, septic emptying and garbage emptying there. There are several areas in Norway that have wanted to have pilots for co-financing, and several of them have met with the Ministry. Westland County, at Visit Sognefjord, has been active and is in dialogue with the Ministry to develop a pilot project. Tromsø has also wanted to be part of it. The Lofot has wanted to develop a pilot for common good finance and visitation contributions, and so has Røros. We expect the department to continue the dialogue with these places. An overall committee has also said that piloting can be positive, so that we get an experience of whether there are challenges we are unable to solve in today's legislation. Then I would like to mention that TØI has had a survey of tourists and how they deal with a common good financing, a visitation contribution. So that's 56.2 pst. says yes, and only 7 pst. say no, so that those who visit us want a good arrangement and may be willing to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1235	The SV representative’s proposal asks for an analysis of tourism tax models in Norway. The reason is that several places in the country have increased tourist flows so much that problems arise in dealing with it, and that it is time to enable municipalities to handle mass tourism. The proposal for a representative indicates that mass tourism is a problem in several countries in Europe, and therefore several countries have introduced different forms of tourist tax. This can be challenging for infrastructure, hygiene conditions, nature and for the local population. This is what SV believes Norway should also introduce. The representative’s proposal specifies that the assessment should include a government-determined tax and municipal variation, flat rate and percentage of overnight rates, differentiated rates depending on seasons and destinations, as well as whether the tourist tax revenues of municipalities should be earmarked for travel purposes. This is a very bureaucratic system. The representative proposal points to real challenges, and I agree that mass tourism can be challenging in Norway too. Although the problem of mass tourism is real, extra taxation is not necessarily solved. In the treatment of Report. St. 19 for 2016–2017, ‘Experience Norway – unique and adventurous’, was discussed and rejected as a distortion of competition. We are now in a situation where the tourism industry is heavily affected by the coronary apathy. The most important thing now is to ensure that the tourism industry can get through the pandemic in a good way and that the state facilitates the further development and strengthening of the industry. It is important to remember that tourism is very important for districts. Many small towns have great value creation due to tourism. The introduction of a tourist tax would hardly help the tourism industry and tourist destinations throughout Norway, rather the opposite. Norway is already an expensive country. Once again, tourism will probably be less volume than before because purchasing power has fallen. This means that tourists will choose cheaper destinations than Norway. It is important to consider the long-term nature of Norway’s travel life when normalising the situation. The Council of State also announced that she would take a closer look at common good finance in the tourism policy and that it would be a central theme in the government's further work on the tourism industry. I agree that it is possible to examine the scope for action at the local level for joint financing in Norwegian travel. It must be up to the municipality to choose its own means of coping with mass tourism in a good way that benefits the community. It is very rare that the introduction of new taxes is the solution, and that is not the case in this case either. That is why the Progress Party will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1254	The centre party's starting point in this case is that we support the introduction of a visitation grant, because we see that tourism in many places in the country leads to a strong pressure on the municipalities, which we need better funding to solve. In the last few years, the centre party has fought hard, but in vain, to keep the regional development funds, which have been the money that could have been used for the corresponding purposes. However, we also see that this is not the time to introduce a new fee for travel. It's not the time to worry about what's in the future either. So we're behind the setting the way we do it. But we see enough for us – and are glad that there are several figures on Stortinget for – such a visitation contribution as the one mentioned in the proposal. I understand quite clearly that the intention of a large majority is that one will continue to work on this when normal is back. So I just want to make a comment on the post of the representative from the Progress Party. It is well and good to stand on the pulpit and be concerned about taxes and taxes to travel life, but it is worth reminding that the Progress Party over these years has had a 50 pst. increase in the value added tax for travel, from 8 to 12 percentage points, while one in the Corona situation cannot give a proper assurance that one will retain the reduced VAT beyond 1 July. In the Center Party, we will remove him all year long to make it good for business into the summer season. It's a little out of the question today, but I thought when the representative from the Progress Party chose to be so tall and dark on behalf of their party, that I don't think this is the time for good rhetoric for travel. There is a concrete and global travel life policy that is needed. Visitor contributions will come but not now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1265	The President will note that it is an advantage to stick to today's topic in these debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1270	I feel that SV is the only party that is still behind handling different models of tourist tax, visitation contributions and that kind of thing. But I feel the great majority in the committee as positive to look at this, just not right now. One is only going to start a release right now. Our proposal is not to introduce it; that's to sort it out. And we haven't finished thinking about how to do this. The whole point is that we need to ensure that more resources come to those communities that today experience mass tourism on the body, so that they can actually implement the necessary infrastructure measures, for adaptation of nature, for toilets and for all that is needed to secure both the cities and to make it attractive for tourists to come. As a result, tourist industries are also strongly in favour of introducing a visitation grant in one variant or another. One has extreme cases of cruise ships coming to the country and carrying bratwurstane and their own bayers, they have their own guides on board, and they even have their own buses that they run out. Thus, the country becomes just one arena of income to some completely different. Too little is left. You will not get any local products at all. There are different variants. We in SV have also put forward various proposals on cruise tourism, precisely to ensure that cruise tourism is based only on taking its own input factors more and more, to make use of local product, local competence, etc. – i.e. we are being used to make a positive development of local communities by tourism. Then one has to move into this field. It's kind of comical, the position of the Progress Party in this case. One is suddenly very opposed to introducing taxes and charges for foreigners. Take, for example: tourist fishing. The Progress Party has agreed to vote on SV’s proposal to give more control and introduce fishing licences, while for Norwegian full-time fishermen, the Progress Party has agreed to introduce fees. So there's a difference between whether a cage in the country or coming from abroad, in the value of the Progress Party. The one group shall be subject to a levy, while the other group shall be free.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1281	Does the representative wish to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1286	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1291	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1296	In recent years, until the corona pandemic hit the tourism industry, there has been a strong growth in the number of tourists and guest places in Norway. As an example, 846 000 cruise tourists visited our country in 2019, according to figures from Innovation Norway. There's an increase of 187,000, or 28.4 pst., only in three years. For Norwegian tourism, and perhaps especially for business operators in the most popular destinations, there is a happy development. Increased numbers of visitors mean increased turnover and more jobs, to a large extent in typical districts. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that the medal also has a backside: excessive wear and tear on vulnerable nature when tens of thousands of people go to the most visited destinations, congestion where traffic is greatest, and poor infrastructure, such as road traffic. parking spaces and toilet facilities in small rural communities, which for a few short weeks during the peak season increase the population by tens of thousands of tourists. The central question that then arises is simple and straightforward: who will take the bill with the organisation of the tourist flow, the development of infrastructure, cleaning and cleaning? SV has put this question on the job in the form of the representative proposal we are now considering. It is good that the Stortinget and each party can thus take an internal review of a question that has a significant impact on the experience of Norway as a tourist destination. So it's that a debate around this topic can easily strand the concept. SV chooses to use the term ‘tourist tax’ in the representative’s proposal and wishes to consider both a government-determined tax and municipal variation. Proposals for any State tourist tax have aroused strong negative reactions from the tourism industry, which fear a new tax regime in which companies have to take costs with increased influx of tourists. It is understandable, and the government parties recall that the government refused to introduce a state tourist tax into the Report. St. 19 for 2016–2017, as Stortinget dealt with in spring 2017. Nevertheless, there is reason to note that a positive and open dialogue was established about the issue of different forms of payment for users after the SV delivered their representative sales just before Christmas. There were constructive recordings from the tourism industry of pilots who should be tested and several of the government parties opened up to assess different user payment solutions that ensure that tourists contribute financially to improved infrastructure and quality of travel experience when visiting popular tourist destinations. Then we find that the representative proposal from SV unfortunately got the worst possible timing. In the initial stages of the Committee's work on the establishment of a committee, the CORONAPANDAMIA hit the tourism industry as a bad one. It was natural that the consideration of the draft representative was put on hold. The government parties believe that the persistent serious infection situation with the severe negative consequences it has for the tourism industry is not the time to conclude on this matter now, and we refer to the committee's position. We believe, however, that the Ministry should take the matter up again when everyday life is normalized.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1320	The government's objective in the field of tourism policy is to maximise the overall value creation within a sustainable framework. There is also a background to the fact that the government does not want to impose an excise duty on Norwegian accommodation companies on its services, as proposed by this representative. The government made its policy on financing common goods for Norwegian travel destinations clear in the 2017 Travel Life Communication. Our starting point was then that actors who serve or benefit from a common good are now helping to finance it. We believe that local challenges in this respect should be addressed locally, and that they can be achieved through more targeted and cost-effective solutions than new special taxes. Norwegian municipalities are now allowed to pay for those using municipal services such as toilets, parking or port facilities. The government is a driving force for this space of action to be exploited to a greater extent than today, and there are many examples that travel goals have succeeded in financing public goods in this way. These are examples that I also think others will benefit from knowing. Therefore, we will entrust Innovation Norway with the task of setting up a Joint Goods Financing Adviser to identify the action space for municipalities within the framework of the existing legislation. The fact that I reject this proposal for a representative does not mean that I refuse to discuss the issue of co-funding in Norwegian travel destinations. However, any investigation must be made on a broader basis and be carried out on premises other than those provided for in this proposal. I do not see the value of figuring out what is already a well-known model, which in practice means higher charges for accommodation services. As Minister of Economic Affairs, I want more knowledge of new solutions, and I am happy to see that the majority of the Business Committee shares that view. The timing of this proposal is also unfortunate. We're still in the middle of a pandemic that hit travel life hard. Now we need to have a full focus on getting out of the situation we're in now, and I'm glad that a broad majority of the committee agrees with me on that. I also remind you that Innovation Norway will present a national travel strategy in February next year. This strategy will include, inter alia: address issues related to co-funding. In view of that, I will come back to this matter at a later stage, as requested by the majority of the Committee. This will have to be done when the situation is somewhat different from it right now, and when that travel strategy is available, with the recommendations, measures and proposals that come there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1335	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1340	I have let me tell you that the minister was present and opened the Lofot Conference in February, just before the Corona hit, where the Lofot launched the Lofot The Green Islands. It's a sustainability project in all sorts of ways. They address the purely environmental, but also the interaction between travel and the local population. They have wanted common good finance, visit management, a visitation contribution. I was inside Haukelandsand in my post. It is a State-secured open-air area with approx. 300000 visitors each year. Parking, garbage must be handled and this year they have drained septic steel for 500,000 kroner. The Environment Directorate has said that since this is a State-secured area, they cannot charge. In order to prevent conflict there may seem to be a need for a legal basis in the western part of the municipality. Will the Minister be open to investigate also such homes where there might be gaps in the legislation today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1345	The lofoot is a very good example where you have a travel industry that looks forward, which is offensive, that wants to offer sustainable offers to tourists. It happens very well. As far as the representative is concerned in connection with the financing of common good, I am in favour of the fact that we need to use more of the space available today to finance the common good. But I am also open to see if there is a need for some sort of adjustment of the legislation we have today. That is why I have commissioned Innovation Norway to create a guide, and I look forward to getting the new travel strategy that Innovation Norway is working hard and well with travel life, and that is being presented in the new year. There I suppose this will be an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1350	I have also been told that on 15 October there was a meeting on common good finance and administration between, among others. The Minister's Department and the Western Municipalities and Visit Sognefjord as Project Manager. There are several areas in our country that want to be allowed to try out as a pilot for common good financing. What they've looked at, especially in that project, is that one pays as one gets into an area -- a little like we have it on Svalbard today, which is easy to regulate because it's an island. One has to get there by plane or boat, and one can place it as an application on the ticket. We have AutoPASS today. Most people have a piece. AutoPASS says they can also charge private cars that enter an area. What is the Minister's position on those who want to try out such pilots?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1355	I am aware that there has been a conversation or dialogue between the department and a little different actors, I would say, because there are several people who have made contact. This was a very big debate before the Corona came, about tourist taxes and common good financing. So the situation is the way it is now. I am very concerned that we now do not create any uncertainty related to tourist tax as such. But I'm open to looking at it with common good finance. I'm open to looking at good pilot trials and suggestions coming. I think we have this debate in mind now, both when Innovation Norway is about to create a guide, and when they are now working on the travel strategy. I think we've all traveled around and thought that here we needed more toilets and better parking, and that we would have been willing to pay for it, because it would have made conditions much easier both for us who are visiting, and for those who live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1360	I very much agree that the travel strategy we are waiting for now becomes very important. But I think the minister may underestimate here: although we have had the coronary apnea, the need to do more with sustainability and to facilitate better locally, especially in vulnerable natural areas, is not diminished. It's the same size after the pandemic, because I think many will want to come to us even after the pandemic. What I'm concerned about is that you don't lock up and say that you can just find out locally, it's not possible to do anything about the law, but that if it turns out to be possible, you have an opening to see if the facilities are good enough. So I want to hear the Minister's assessment of whether it is possible to test out such pilots in some demarcated geographical areas, in the Lofoten or the World Heritage Site, pilots for how to charge for local organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1365	I do not believe in any way underestimating the need to look ahead when it comes to both joint finance and sustainability in general. This is why Innovation Norway is still working on that travel strategy. They have, however, been slightly exposed, as it was planned to be presented this year. I have had a great deal of understanding that the situation in Innovation Norway has also been quite stressful, but it has been important to me that this is not something we should push out in the future. That's something we have to work with now, because it's going to be a day when we can raise our heads a little bit more and look a little bit more forward. Then we must have worked along the way while we have been in this pandemic. I fully agree with the representative that this is not something we can take a break from. We have to work on this all the way, and I'm open to assessing common good finance, different forms of getting to it, both within today's legislation and if there's a need to adjust it. Of course, pilots will decide when we have examples lying on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1370	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor in case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1379	Case No. 9 and 10 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1407	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: Labour Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Centre Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Environment Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1414	Over the seven years I have led the Foreign and Defence Committee of the United Kingdom, the security landscape around us has changed and become much more demanding. At the same time, Norwegian defence policy has become more important. We are experiencing an increasing rivalry between the major powers, especially at sea. We see more violations of international law and signs that the most powerful court can rule, and that the major acts will settle without interference from international organizations. It's not in Norway's interest. As a small and long-distance country with huge sea areas and a large neighbour, we are totally dependent on NATO and a strong defence of our own. Violent extremism and terror are still a threat to our country too. That terrorist groups such as ISIL have been able to gain control of large rural areas has underlined the need to support and strengthen those who fight against extremism in their own neighbourhoods. Then we can stop terrorism before it reaches Europe. Preparedness and security have increased in people's awareness since July 22nd, but also in the last year of the pandemic. The unmistakable can happen. It's this basic doctrine on which our defense is based. Night after we agreed on the long-term plan for the current period in 2016, President Donald Trump was elected in the United States. Now we are going to adopt a new four-year plan, knowing that in January the United States will be given a new government, which does not cast doubt on NATO solidarity and Article 5. Because we have been anxious about NATO's future under President Trump. Norway alone is unable to defend its vast sea areas in the north without assistance from the United States and NATO. We can and should criticize the United States when we disagree on foreign policy priorities, whether it's about the nuclear agreement with Iran or the Paris agreement about our common environment, but we can't lead the Norwegian people to believe that we're doing without them, or that we're doing the best we can by ourselves. But in the next few years, we'll probably experience another United States, which is less globally committed. That's good, you might say, after the fatal invasion of Iraq in 2003. But the experience of the civil war in Syria, when in October last year President Trump drew American troops out of the Kurdish territories, and no European country would enter and guarantee the security of the Kurds, was profoundly serious both for the Kurdish population in northern Syria and for the stability of the region. We need to discuss how, together with our neighbouring countries and allies, we can take greater responsibility in our neighbourhoods when the US turns more inward and towards Asia. When the United States becomes less globally engaged, the void can be filled with other major powers, whether it is Russia, China or Middle East countries – countries with much less community of values than with the United States. I would like to thank my committee colleagues for good and open discussions on the future of defence. The conclusions have not been given. We have not negotiated a package in which the parties that have negotiated the package vote for everything or nothing. The disadvantage for a minority of people because we haven't ended up with a package solution is that the minority hasn't been able to get an impact on proposals for which it's really not a majority, in exchange for supporting the whole. My task has therefore been to facilitate that the parties have been able to write together where it has proved to be a real majority – to coordinate the positions and to chisel out a minimum common multiple where this has been possible. Therefore, from the Labour Party, we will promote our primary positions, but we will also vote for the proposals that we believe represent improvements compared to the government's proposals for a long-term plan. – I also refer to the Labour Party proposal in the setting. I have previously argued against the creation of a new defence commission, but the arguments of the SV and the Progress Party during the process convinced me. If we, as dedicated defence politicians, put together a wish list, it could probably be good, but also expensive, and it's unlikely that we'll get through. The purpose of a defence commission is not to list all the military capabilities we defence politicians could want. No, we need a defence commission to get up-to-date recommendations on the road choices we face with a stronger China, a more introverted USA and a more unpredictable Russia. The idea is that experts and politicians should get together and look at the challenges. And the Commission shall be set up in dialogue with the Stortinget. The last time we dealt with a long-term plan, there was a settlement between the government parties and the Workers' Party. It is essential for the defence that there is predictability and a broad majority behind important base choices and costly material investments. Therefore, in 2016 it was necessary to form a solid majority to purchase fighter aircraft, new surveillance aircraft and new submarines. If we don't have modern surveillance planes, our allies are always ready to take over this task. But if we cannot do this task ourselves in our neighbourhoods, we are at risk of increased tension in the north and reduced Norwegian self-determination in the security policy. It's serious. We ourselves need combat lights and submarines in order to assert control over Norwegian territory, to land and at sea. That's why we also need more and new frigates in the future. The long-term plan we received in our treatment went over to be an eight-year plan instead of a four-year plan, as it has been in the past. There was an important reason why the majority chose to return the plan. I think that was right. Now we've got a four-year plan, and we've been able to negotiate together for concrete improvements for the defense over the next four years. One of the least impressive things I can imagine is politicians who are visionary in the long term. We are the elected ones today, who are to be measured by what we do on our guard. In practice, promising something in eight years' time becomes a political discharge. That is why we now have a plan with an overall 20-year perspective, but an operational period of four years. However, the long-term plan we received in the autumn was still not very concrete. There was no basis for a compromise as in 2016, but during the committee reading we have formed an alternating majority for some improvements to the best of defence. The important thing is that the defense needs more people. Both the previous and the newly elected head of defence have wanted a faster escalation in the defence personnel than the government has proposed. We have negotiated a broad majority to increase the number of employees in the Defence by 310 annual works in 2021. The government's proposal was only 57. Secondly, we have negotiated a broad majority for dedicated helicopter support for the Army, organized in our own squadron, at Bardufoss. In reality, the government's proposal constituted a gradual winding-up of the Army's helicopter support. Now Stortinget decides to invest in new helicopters both for the Army and the Special Forces in a separate squadron. The majority also expect the Minister of Defence to follow up on what the head of defence wants to move more of the defence leadership to North Norway. The majority will also investigate whether Haslemoen can be used as part of the new recruiting school at the Terningmoen, and whether we're going to have our own recruiting school in the north of the Drevjamoen. We also need to address fundamental questions about civil personnel as legitimate military targets, and we have also received a majority for Norwegian participation in the European Defence Fund – an important decision for our defence industry. We did not get a majority from the Labour Party to stick to the plans we agreed in 2016 to invest in long-range air protection. Nor did our proposal to double the increase in the number of employees during the planning period from 550 to 1 100 have been passed. Privatisation of the clean-up of defence has deprived many well-adult women of a pension, and a disproportionate amount of time and resources are spent on the security of external cleaners. In many places, the tasks of individual cleaners are so extensive that they do not extend over the defined time frame. During the pandemic, many defence personnel tell us that they have had to wash the water. We have only received support from SV in the matter of the clean-up of the defence. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority in favour of our demand that the Minister of Defence should make a final decision by 1 February on the use of the land on Andeya. This defence plan lacks concrete choices and investments – the main objective, I believe, with a long-term plan. As the previous long-term plan push the Army into new investigations, the renewal of the Maritime Defence Vessels is pushed after the loss of the frigate “Helge lngstad” in a new investigation. That is unfortunate, because then we will not be able to deal with the various sectors of defence and the large investments in a context. Finally, I must say that I am also disappointed that we did not get a majority for a new organisation of the Defence Museums. We all agree that the defense should give priority to that pointed end, and then the museums are always doomed to lose. While the museums under the Ministry of Culture have been growing rapidly in recent years, the defence museums have been on the ground resting. I believe that the defence museums must be co-financed by the Ministry of Culture and ensure the same professional follow-up and professional independence as the museums under the Ministry of Culture. In the spring it was 75 years ago the liberation of Norway. This year, the 8th of May was special, because because of the pandemic, we celebrated the day of liberation and winter without our veterans. There will be fewer of those who can tell about their history from World War II. We have to take a joint responsibility to communicate the history of war, about the totalitarian Nazi regime that put the rage in the system. And not least today, exactly 78 years ago the ship ‘Donau’ left Akershus-kaia with Norwegian Jews on its way to the camps, the Defence Museums must have the means and competence to write down the sufferings of the Jews in our national story of World War II. That's why we need stronger museums. I had hoped that the majority had seized that chance. But I'll tell you, I'm not giving up. All in all, the Workers' Party is proud to have contributed to some improvements for the defence. There is no honour in voting against all the improvements, so that we can go down with the flag to the top, especially in defence and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1469	The representative, Mr Huitfeldt, then drew up the proposal on which the Labour Party is all about, and the proposals which the Labour Party shares with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1474	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good rapporteurship with the intention of finding broad solutions. Repatriation of the Armed Forces will necessarily go over several periods of collapse. In 2013, the then Defence Chief Haakon Bruun-Hanssen and then Defence Minister Ine M. Eriksen Soreide started a full review of the state of things in the Defence. The conclusion was penitent: the defense stood before a guided winding-up unless you left 180 billion. kr more in Defense for the next 20 years. The current long-term plan has been streamlined. The foundation wall had to be repaired before we could start the big investments. The long-term plan must be seen in conjunction with previous long-term plans and should have an absolute perspective over four years. Decisions taken in the previous period make commitments for future periods, not least economically. Costs are distributed over many years. The same goes for the phase-in of large weapon systems and materials, and the effect is coming. Norwegian defence and security policy cannot be established depending on whether it blows hot or cold from the east. Our security policy must be aligned with the fact that we are located there as a country, and that we have a great power as a neighbour. Ever since World War II, Norway has faced security policy challenges that are far greater than what we, as a small nation, have been able to deal with on their own. That's why we're a member of NATO, and NATO membership is at the heart of our ability to deter. In the new long-term plan, which we are about to adopt today, Norway takes greater responsibility for its own safety. However, Norway has a significant responsibility on the North flank of NATO. Our weapon system, our material and our soldiers must provide the best possible national operational effect, but must also be able to cooperate and contribute to NATO's collective defence. The next long-term plan will continue to build up Defence with intensified force, especially in North Norway, simply because our security policy challenges lie primarily in the north, with the strategic importance of the north and increased major activisation. Let me mention: the construction of Finnmark land defence continues. A new combat battalion is being created at the garrison in Porsangs. The Northern Norway Brigade gets a new manoeuvring battalion, and it necessarily affects the size of the supporting battalions. Brig N shall have new tanks. The main battle system itself in the Army is to be renewed, approx. Eighty in number. The Northern Norway Brigade also has long-range fire systems. And in these days, the new artillery system is being used. All defenses are now being built at the same time. A major defence policy commitment is being made which requires a great deal of economic and also implementation by the defence organisation: new fighter aircraft, new maritime surveillance aircraft, upgrade of the Naval Defence vessel, new coastguard vessel, air surveillance radar and an HV that has never been better rusted than today. In addition, the NASAMS air protection system is also reinforced against cruise missiles. Today, the operational capability of the defence is considerably better than four years ago. We're not in the goal, but we're definitely on the right path. A total of 180 B.C.E. kr shall be used for new weapon systems and new material over the next eight years. The government has promoted the new long-term plan and the communication of social security at the same time, with good reason. For the dividing line between social security and State security, the process is on the way. In the grey zone between social security and state security, we see the emergence of new instruments. Conventional instruments and non-conventional instruments tend to overlap, as do government and non-governmental actors. This is why the government is meeting these new threats with a set of new instruments, including: by strengthening the E-service, strengthening cyberdefence and, not least, strengthening the scientific community in defence related to strategic communication in order to mitigate the impact that we have seen on countries that are quite close to us. Finally, I would like to thank the Labour Party and the Progress Party for contributing to a broad majority for this long-term plan and also contributing to constructive improvements. This strengthens the security of our country, and it strengthens the predictability of the development of defence. It is very important in this time of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1499	Actually, defence policy was something we were all concerned about and agreed on. For what can in essence be more important than the defense of our country, where it extends from Lindesnes to Nordkapp? Nevertheless, we feel that the defence does not fully reach when it comes to defining what is really the big and important issues. Since the defense is so complex, where everything is kind of related to everything, it's not as easy just to give money, go to acquisitions, push and speed up. We have seen this again through the work on the long-term plan, which the Stortinget first sent back to the government, because it was too weak. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has now improved the plan in a number of areas, not least on the personnel side and on the question of helicopters for the Special Forces and the Army in the North, through a demanding and thorough work. Over two and a half weeks of negotiations, the Progress Party was one of the proponents for better solutions, including: these questions, compared to what was on the government's table. It's good to see that we did it. Already next year, the number of annual defence works shall be increased by 300. The increase shall be in line with the recommendations of the Defence Manager’s Professional Military Council. Then the long-term plan adds to a solid increase in staff to 2024 and 2028. The Progress Party is also pleased to have had the effect of strengthening the Cyber Defense with ten new specialist positions in 2021, in addition to the already mentioned increase in annual work, as well as our desire to establish a new maritime response squadron in the Marine Jeger Command, based on Ramsund Warsstation. I do not disclose any secret if I say that the question of acquiring new helicopters for the special forces and the army was demanding in the negotiations on the long-term plan. The advance party is pleased that, at the same time as the acquisition of new helicopters to the special forces from 2024, new helicopters will also be deployed for dedicated helicopter support for the Army, organized in one squadron on the Back and one squadron on Bardufoss, to support and interact with the Army. It's a big step in the right direction. Similarly, we are pleased that the quality reform in the Heimevertet continues, ensuring annual training for all HV districts and continued phase-in of new material within the framework of 40,000 soldiers. It is a well-known case that the decision on the closure of Andøya is still being discussed. With regard to the Andøy community, it is therefore regrettable that no majority was found in the consideration of the long-term plan on land-use clearance and land-related bonding of Andøya airstation. The Progress Party wanted such clarification before 1 February next year, but only received support from the Workers' Party for such a proposal. It is one thing that we have to get back to soon. Next to the long-term plan, we are discussing a proposal for a representative on a plan to move the maritime monitoring capacity from Andøya to Evenes. There is also one thing that is still being discussed among many, based on Stortinget’s 2012 decision to establish an advanced operating base for fighter aircraft at Evenes airstation. It is important to stress that, from the government to the Stortinget, neither in the investigation work nor in the implementation of planned measures by the government, there has been any evidence that the assumptions underlying the decision of the Stortinge have changed significantly. Let me just briefly mention that there is going to be a common recruiting school at the Terningmoen. For the Progress Party, it has been important to have an impact in order to explore the use of Haslemoen and Drevjamoen in addition to the recruitment school located at the Terningmoen. It may be of particular interest to look at the possibilities of using the firing lines and the exercise areas associated with Haslemoen. The Haslemo is now privately owned, but is often used by the Home Office and has the house foreign forces in connection with exercises. Cooperation between the Defense and the Owners on the use of Haslemoen, where the Defense leases what we need when the need arises, could be economically beneficial and give Defence greater freedom of action in other areas. We look forward to the government returning to this in connection with the state budget for 2022. Overall, it can be said that the defence and Norwegian security and defence policy system in a broader sense since World War II has been based on the recognition that the security challenges facing us as a nation go beyond Norway alone to be able to model capacity. Therefore, it is reassuring that most of us conclude that the future cooperation and membership of NATO is extremely necessary. In this one, as in many other contexts, it would be irresponsible to choose alone. We're simply not doing the best we can on this question alone, either. NATO membership has been a pillar of Norwegian security and defence policy for over 70 years, and transatlantic cooperation will continue to be essential for Norway’s security. Defence has been built on technological progress and industrial development throughout the post-war period. For this reason, it has been so important for the Progress Party that Norway joins the European Defence Fund, EDF, where precisely these matters are emphasised and will be crucial for the future of the Norwegian defence industry. My good colleague Christian Tybring-Gjedde will talk more about this in his speech a little later in the debate. The Progress Party believes that the conversion of the Defense into an intervention defense in the decades after the Cold War was necessary and correct, but went too far. The defense was marginalized, and the awareness of the need for a self-defense was put in the shadow of a changing world. The reality of security policy is changing rapidly and unpredictablely. Changes are larger and more complex than in many years. Major-makification between a strongly growing China, a Russia that wants to position itself on the international arena, and a US that is challenged both economically and militarily, results in less transparency and greater uncertainty. This is why NATO is more important than ever, while the alliance experiences divergent views on security policy challenges, and the US's focus on China means that European Member States need to take more responsibility for their own security. The fact that the President-in-Office of the United States of America has signaled that he is going to cut heavily in the defence appropriations also leads to greater pressure on other allies to compensate for the US's future capacity reduction. Norwegian security and defence policy aims at ensuring Norway’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and political autonomy. The basic rationale of defence is to have a deterrent effect on potential attackers and defend Norway and allies against external threats, attacks and estimates. Norway must have a modern defence that is part of a strong and credible alliance. This will have a deterrent effect and reduces the likelihood that we will be in a situation where the security of Norway or Norway's allies is challenged and must be defended by military power. The Progress Party believes that today’s threat picture requires better response and endurance than the Defense Today delivers. Its size must be at a level that ensures that assigned tasks can be resolved. It is important that tasks, organisational size and economics are linked. It is essential to maintain the role and competence of Norway in strategic conditions in the northern regions. Furthermore, the Defence shall be able to perform daily national tasks, contribute to credible deterrence and be an allied resource in the NATO collective defence. It is necessary to increase preparedness and strengthen staffing in order to increase the response and stamina of our military forces. Surprisingly, for some, the Committee agreed that a new defence commission should be set up. These have been reduced in the past when global and political upheavals have created a new defence and security policy situation. Therefore, in view of many of the developments outlined in the long-term plan, a new Defence Commission is needed to ensure a broad and open dialogue on defence and security policy challenges and to respond to the work on future long-term plans. I admit, I'm excited about how the Commission is being formed. It is always strong to hear the slogan of the defense, so let me therefore quote it: "For all we have. And all we are." For me, this underlines the ultimate importance of what defence is for our country, and for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1544	The central party's goal is for Norway to have a strong national defence that enabled us to maintain a solid national space of action. Norway shall be NATO in the north. The defence shall have the strength to deal with events throughout the spectrum from peace to crisis and war. Throughout the party's history, the Central Party has been a loyal defender of the defence of the people, of the National Security Institute and of the Home Office. In order for Norway to exist as an independent national State, the Norwegian threshold defence must be based on Norwegian soldiers. The government's proposal for a long-term defence plan has a thorough argument that Norway is facing a new and more demanding security situation today. This will be pointed out in almost all security assessments and analyses from among others PST, E-service, NATO and NSM. Covid-19 seems to accelerate the ongoing shift of power between China and the United States. There are also clear and public signs of Russian exploitation of the situation. In addition, the major economic implications of covid-19 in the world economy are likely to make security policy even less conservative. The strange thing about this is that the government doesn't follow up its own assessment of the security situation with a bet to strengthen the defense sufficiently. There is a wide variation between problem description and proposed measures. The Central Party wants more soldiers in our defense. The Chief of Defence and all the defence branches, as well as the organisations of the trustees, have pointed to a great need for more personnel. In listening recordings, there is a great deal of anxiety about the tax on added to the Defense today, and a hard time keeping on staff. It is therefore very important that the government’s requirements for efficiency improvement do not lead to weak operating budgets out in the operational departments, as one has seen for example in the current period. Without a larger manpower growth, it becomes difficult to fill the existing and future strength structure and thus maximise investment in equipment and materials. In the statement to the long-term plan, the Defence Manager writes that the reinforcement of the crew may come sooner and more in volume than the government proposes. Now the defense manager can add 300 people a couple of years ago, but the volume won't increase. In other words, there is no growth in personnel, from the majority, beyond ten years of work in 2024 or later. It's the government's proposal as a debt, with 300 staff outsourced. It is produced by some as if it is a strong reinforcement of personnel. Well, it's a reinforcement that it comes two years before, but when one takes down the same number afterwards, it's the status quo when we get to the end of the four-year period, and it gets a fair deal on it. I am pleased that the Labour Party went into our proposal, together with SV, that we should have 1,100 new settings for the first four years. This will mean that with a red-green government we can get a stronger escalation. The security of Norway is strongly dependent on the will to defend and the competence of the Norwegian people. It is, therefore, important to strengthen the Institute of Protection and the structures of the Defence Agency that maintain the admission of those under protection. In order to ensure recruitment, the admission to the first-time test should be increased over the next period, as personnel grow. It will be important to be able to build up the structure of the entire Defense and contribute to a broader anchoring of the Defence in our society. The Central Party has long supported Home Security as a major resource for social security and other key societal tasks. The new head of defense has been head of Homeland Protection, and it has been a pleasure to follow his view of the importance of Homeland Protection in today's situation. In parts of the country, especially in Agder and Rogaland, the number of Homeland soldiers is greatly reduced during today's government. The centre part will gradually increase the structure of the Home Office to 50,000, and start by filling up the agreed structure of 40,000, now missing 4,000 soldiers. The protection of the home must also be ensured annually by six days for the solar data and nine days for the command. The modernisation of Home Security must continue and the capacity for decentralised storage must be strengthened. I have registered that the Centre Party has been tested as populist in the defence debate. Home security is one example of that being the case, and that we're working in the long term. Another example: four years ago, the Senterparti suggested that the sea defence corvettes should be extended and used for internal coastal defence until one had been given an alternative. There was no support for this at the time, but now, fortunately, the government and obviously also the other party have come to the same position as the Center Party had. The corvettes, together with the frigates, are to be upgraded pending new investments. However, there are many projects involving both maintenance and investment in maritime defence, which can be launched in the past, more standardised vessels that can be equipped for example. smaller coastguard or parent ships for autonomous mine clearance vessels. Such projects will also provide work for the yard along our coast, i.e. a win-win situation. Together with new crews, it will strengthen the Marine and Coast Guard for years to come until a new surface structure is put in place. Three examples of long - term work: eight and four years ago, the Senter Party suggested that the Army get new tanks. The government did not follow up on the Storting decision of 2012, and in 2016 the Land Authority was pushed into a separate distribution. But tanks did not come in the present period either, although the Workers' Party believed they had a decision on it. Now the government push the main weapon to the Army in the second period, after 2024, and get the support party with it. It's not to be believed. The centre party enters to allow the tanks to be phased in from 2023. In 2024 a new long-term plan will come, and then we risk pushing this important investment, which is also the highest NATO-relevant, into time. As the previous examples show, the Central Party has had a green thread in its defence policy for many years. Helicopters to the Army are yet another example of the Central Party proposal from four years ago that the government did not want, and as one of some parties believed one had multiples, simply dedicated the helicopter to the Army in the north. After the Central Party introduced its proposal in this round, however, there were negotiations, which led far overtime to a decision that, reading with goodwill, could mean of it being owned helicopter to the Army, stationed at Bardufoss. And then you can ask yourself why the multiples couldn't go into the proposal of the Center Party, which was there all the time. Is there something "snags" in the majority decision because they couldn't do it? Or is it something as simple as that the Center Party's decisions are written in neo-Norwegian, and so it'll be too easy to see that it's just the Center Party's proposal? Say it! At least for us, it's obvious that the Army should be equipped with its own helicopters. One last example of things that the Center Party has been working on for the past four years is, of course, the base of the P-8 surveillance flight on Andy Island. The then government joined with the Workers' Party down the base of Andeya and moved him to Evenes because it was decisive to secure the new F-35 and P-8 planes with long-range air protection. The daring defense chief recommended moving to Evenes, but his leadership was not new surveillance planes, but drones, which naturally need much less space in terms of both runways and terminals. But the P-8 plane came in from the west at full speed in the previous long-term plan, and a held still at the closure of the Andeya base, even though the drones in the FMR, professionally-military advice, were replaced by planes that need completely different facilities. The main reason for the move was long-range air protection, which was so crucial, and which even the Prime Minister has stated was a crucially important argument for laying the base of Evenes. The long-drawing air protection system has disappeared on the road. The centre party has asked many questions about the upcoming P-8 base that we have not received an answer to. The present decision has in any case been amended, but the Government, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party are directly involved in the decision. So let's see if the last word is said in that case. I will return to the matter of Andøya and Evenes in a later article. Another rumor that we've tried to outsource the Center Party is that we spend so much more money than we have. Today we have presented our alternative budget. You can see what frame the Center Party has entered for next year in defense. If a take-off takes place of funds from the base of Evenes, it's 1.8 billion. kr over what is inside from the plural. It'll cover up what we've put in. Every year we've spent more money and more ambitions on defence than the government of today. So we'll see, as the years go by, who will implement the long-term plan that we're going to adopt today. I would like to mention the proposal No. 9-13, which we have with SV, and the proposal No. 15-26, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1576	Then the representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1581	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur and really the entire committee for what I thought was a very good process. I think that the treatment of this long-term plan shows that it's not necessarily that we're best served with some kind of monolithic settlement in dealing with these long-term plans, but that it's possible to find a majority a little across the board without being a disaster. This also meant that there was no need for SV to break any negotiation this time – we have a certain tradition for that, I have to admit. This time it has been possible instead to work constructively together to find a majority for some things that are important to many parties in this room. Not least more people are involved in the defence, which is the most important thing in building a strong enough national defence. We agree on an acceleration that is positive. In addition, we have a red-green consensus on a stronger escalation in the next few years. We've been given clarifications about the helicopter dedicated to the Army and stationed at Bardufoss, with which SV is very pleased, and we've also been able to see through that proposal SV has previously been left alone in the Storting, to put down a new defence commission, which Norway had after the Union resolution, after the First and Second World War, after the Vietnam War and after the fall of the Wall. The parties read the international and security policy situation differently, but I am absolutely sure that there is a broad consensus that we are at a time of great change. The importance of being able to raise our eyes and ensure that we get an informed debate about this, as a basis for the further development of Norwegian security and defence policy, is great, and therefore I am very pleased with that decision. Then, of course, the setting shows that there is still a great distance in the security policy between SV's vision and that of the majority of the population. The most important thing in SV's security policy is low voltage in the high north. We believe that this is a crucial priority for Norway at a time when the major changes we were just about to make. The political and economic centre of the world that is being moved from the Atlantic to the Pacific is increasingly being called into question by NATO’s future relevance, increasing political distance – even in spite of the election results in the United States – between Europe and the United States, demands from European leaders of greater strategic autonomy and authoritarian forces in the world, in China and Russia, of course, but also in allied countries. All of these things change the world we're going to design a Norwegian security policy for. But there are also positive developments, such as closer Nordic defence cooperation. We have to avoid our neighbourhoods becoming the arena of major rectorialization. The most important way to avoid this is that tasks that are important for defence and security in Norway are carried out by Norway itself and not by the Americans. That is why SV is a member of a strong national defence and is willing to use resources to build a national defence, among other things. has given priority to more people. That is also why SV will have clear re-priorities and propose a plan to withdraw Norwegian soldiers from the various war missions and military missions in which Norway is involved under the leadership of the United States. That's why we would say no to the re-location of American soldiers in Norway and the re-enlargement of base policy. I would also like to address the question of privatisation. It has two sides. One is about respect for workers, for example: the defence keepers, who have made such a great effort for the defence over a long period of time, but have been rewarded with a privatisation policy that has had considerable consequences, both for the workers and subsequently for the cleaners of the defence. It is therefore important to note that the privatisation debate has two sides. One is the traditional privatisation resistance from the left, which I think is very well justified, but the other is an emergency side, for which I hope the right side will also open its eyes. Finally, there is a major weakness in this long-term plan that a major issue remains unresolved. That's how to cover the bill for a potentially very high cost charge for the fighter aircraft. The unexplained situation casts doubt on all the economic priorities of this plan, and therefore the acquisition should be examined. – With that, I take up SV’s proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1598	The representative Audun Lighthouse took up the suggestions he referred to. We shall then interrupt the debate in case No. 9 and 10 to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1612	Then we're ready to vote. The Storting will first vote for the remaining items from Tuesday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1624	A total of 30 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Norunn Tveiden Benestad on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposed no. 3-8, by Stein Erik Lauvås, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposal No 9, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 10-12, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 13-24, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party proposed no. 25-27, from Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centerpartiet proposed no. 28-30, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 28 and 29, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: The government is asked to establish a permanent grant scheme for county municipalities to ensure access to decentralised higher education in line with the needs of industry, the public sector and the population throughout the country.» Proposal No. 29 sounds: The government is asked to modify the scheme of regional regional regional and commercial instruments in order to contribute to the transition to a zero-emission society and business. Within such a framework, counties shall have greater freedom to decide for themselves what the means are to be used for.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1672	Proposal No. 30, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to increase the local food funds.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1689	Since it seems that we have problems with registration, we take the vote on proposal No. 30 one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1701	Proposal No. 25 and 26, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to revise state guidelines that prevent local self-government and development opportunities in the districts.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a differentiated code on the construction of the beach zone from the part of the country and from the territory.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1724	Proposal No. 27, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for safe arrangements to ensure that all local authorities of the country are distributed every working day including Saturday.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1741	Proposal No. 13-24, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to remove differentiated planning guidelines and to provide guidelines that place all the municipalities of the country in a mildest category with the most local autonomy possible.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to place the entire Alver municipality in Zone 3 in revised State planning guidelines for differentiated management of the coastal zone along the sea.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to place the entire Inner Fosen municipality in Zone 3 in revised State planning guidelines for differentiated management of the coastal zone along the sea.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the placement of Porsgrund municipality in Zone 2 in revised State planning guidelines for differentiated management of the coastal zone along the sea.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks to place the municipality of Sola in Zone 3 in revised state planning guidelines for differentiated management of the coastal zone along the sea.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks to place the municipality of Karmøy in zone 3 of revised state planning guidelines for differentiated management of the coastal zone along the sea.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks to place Eyegarden Municipality in Zone 3 in revised State planning guidelines for differentiated coastal zone management along the sea.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government requests the location of the Fröya municipality in Zone 3 in revised State planning guidelines for differentiated management of the coastal zone along the sea.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks to place the island of Røvær in the municipality of Haugesund in zone 3 of revised government planning guidelines for differentiated management of the coastal zone along the sea.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks to place the island of Ombo in Stavanger municipality in zone 3 of revised State planning guidelines for differentiated management of the coastal zone along the sea.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks to place the Sandnes municipality in Zone 3 in revised State planning guidelines for differentiated management of the coastal zone along the sea.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: «The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a tax decision for 2022, in which the state's income from the property tax is completely cut, so that it may be up to the municipalities to cut the remaining property tax in its entirety.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1815	Proposal No. 10-12, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider how to extend the MECUR scheme to those who do not have equity and are not able to generate sufficient profits and therefore do not have the means to co-finance measures’.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the whole country’s population to access high-speed broadband and to introduce public universal service obligations for broadband in areas where there is no basis for commercial expansion.’ [[minimum 100 Mbit/s symmetrical broadband capacity]] Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The majority asks the government in all the proposals they promote for the Stortinget to consider how the proposal affects the housing pattern.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1844	Proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the development of ‘regional agreements’ between the State, municipalities and regions to ensure development and growth throughout the country and the long-term framework for business, transport, housing, education and well-being.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1861	Proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to provide a notification of a new power cap for the mineral industry addressing the following elements: An evaluation of the Mineral Law. A plan to complete the monitoring of mineral deposits, at least in line with the objective of the mineral strategy of 75 pst. the country shall be identified with advanced equipment. Concrete measures to enhance the predictability of the proceedings and to reduce the length of proceedings. Strengthening the administration to meet environmental requirements, Sámi rights and guidance for municipalities. R & D measures to reduce environmental pressure. A strategy for increasing the use and processing of minerals in Norway. a review of the current situation and proposals for the necessary measures to strengthen recruitment and training for the industry. A strategy for more stringent international environmental requirements for the extraction of mineral resources.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1892	Proposal No. 5 and 6 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose an increase in commuting allowances for ordinary people’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen the basic geological survey of Norway’s geological survey [[NGU]] Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1917	Proposal No. 3, 4 and 8, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to significantly increase broadband funding’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase regional development funds for the counties’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a green investment company for the development of enterprises based on green carbon and for the appropriate presentation of the proposal to the Stortinge.’ [[renewable]] The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1945	Proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of the future possibility for changes in the property tax, where both the state’s revenues and the local authority’s operating space for competition on tax conditions between municipalities are illuminated.’ The left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e1962	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to clarify to the statesmen that local self-government should be given greater emphasis than today in the treatment of municipal plans and exemptions.’ The Labour Party and the Left have already given their support to the proposal The centre party has already received subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2082	There is a vote on I-IX and XI-XVIII. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2096	It's going to be over X. The Socialist Left Party has warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2110	It's going to be over XIX.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2127	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 3 and 4, by Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red Proposal No. 6 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to put forward the necessary proposals to ensure profit-free schooling, through new forms of organisation facilitating non-profit activities while ensuring the transparency of schools’ money use.’ The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2159	Proposal No. 5, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal to allow approved private primary and secondary schools to be included in a municipal/communal schooling plan. Where there is a need for a reduction in the number of school places as a result of student development, the reduction in the total number of student places should not weaken public school provision.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2176	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose amendments to the Law on Secondary Education in such a way that approval under the Law on Secondary Education § 2-1 shall not be granted if the host municipality in question or the host county opposes such approval.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2193	Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the law of private schools to be reviewed by the government to ensure that the intention that all State aid should benefit students is better cared for than at present. Such a review shall aim at preventing the resale of State-aided schools from making it possible to draw private profits from schooling and to impose more stringent penalties and reduce the need for controls.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2218	Alternatively, between the recommendation and the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure a regulatory framework which gives fresh schools the obligation to report on the sale, merger, fission and closure of private schools.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for new forms of organisation to operate private schools that facilitate non-profit activities while ensuring public transparency in the use of public funds.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2242	There's so much talk about the case no. 1 to 6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2275	During the debate, Mr Lagen Vågslid has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up and implement an overall plan to ensure the transparency and coordination of the follow-up of the individual departments to the recommendations of the international monitoring bodies to Norway in the field of human rights.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2307	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2338	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 2, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 1, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure equal access to compensation for public failure to a person who was a child at the time of the failure, irrespective of where the person resides in the country, and to establish, if necessary, a national compensation scheme or national legislation for municipal schemes.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2366	Proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a review of the various municipal and county settlement settlements and compensation schemes in order to gain an overview of potential problematic discrimination.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2383	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals to coordinate the law on compensation with the rules on limitation in criminal law, so that the claims for compensation do not become obsolete before any criminal prosecution takes place.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2410	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2429	Right, Left and Christian People's Party have warned that they want to speak against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2448	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a review committee to identify and review all cases where persons may have been convicted of an unlawful punishment as a result of a misinterpretation of the refugee convention nature. 31 No 1st@item: inlistbox ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the Advocate General has sufficient resources to follow-up cases in which persons have been convicted of an unlawful punishment also as a result of misinterpretation of the Convention on Refugees.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish an appropriate legal aid system so that persons who are found guilty of misinterpretation of the refugee convention are free to receive legal assistance.’ These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2493	During the debate Maria Aasen-Svensrud has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the extension of the special legal aid scheme related to Nav’s misinterpretation of the EEA rules so that potential victims are given free legal assistance even before Nav has assessed the matter and reached a new decision.’; The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2525	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2615	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2626	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2683	I would also like to thank the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee for the consideration of the long-term plan and for the consensus I have, which – even by a different majority – is a broad consensus within the Committee. On the left hand side, we are particularly pleased that we now have an agreement that strengthens the crew and soldiers with 300 men, already in 2021, that this is accelerating, and that, after what has been a long discussion, we agree on a helicopter quadron dedicated to the Army and stationed in Bardufoss. We're also happy that we're getting a reinforcement of cyberdefense. In the treatment of the previous long-term plan and also in the treatment of drug trafficking, the Left stressed the need to strengthen rural power. We are therefore pleased that, in the discussion of this long-term plan, we receive a confirmation that the Coast Guard Command, which was proposed in 2017, will not be closed. This time there's no discussion about it. We are pleased that the Home Security continues its modernisation based on 40,000 men, and that even though the Sjöheimewert is no longer there, it will for priority objects with seaside eartags trained HV soldiers for the purpose. We also remember the discussion about the 2nd Battalion. Today, there is a consensus that we need four manoeuvring battalions. Based on the fact that we also need new tanks, the government will come back with a case about it as early as next year. Finnmark national defence is being reinforced. Where there has also been a discussion in the past, we now have a broad consensus on a lifetime extension for coastal corvettes. We are in a demanding security situation, with an Arctic that is becoming increasingly important, both because of climate change and increased availability and because of rivalries and the relationship between major powers. Russia is increasingly self-reliant and risky. They are willing to use both military and non-military instruments. We have a China with ambitions and ability and will to put power behind these ambitions. We also have an area south and east of the NATO countries that is characterised to varying degrees by uncertainty and instability. It can be seen to a different extent from Afghanistan to Mali — an area of the world in which the United States withdraws, and where Norway, in a crisis and conflict situation, is so dependent on allied support, must also show its willingness to participate in international operations, whether under UN flags or NATO-led operations. The assumption, of course, is that you have to act in international law. For the Left, it would be totally wrong, in the situation these countries are in – whether it is Afghanistan or Iraq – to withdraw these forces now. We went in with NATO, and we have to be there as long as NATO is there, because the tasks themselves are important, but also to strengthen the Norwegian position within NATO. We are – as underlined in the long-term plan – dependent on a global world order in which power is just ahead of us. Work towards the UN cannot be overestimated. Nevertheless, NATO is a prerequisite for Norwegian defence and security, and our position in and strengthening NATO is crucial. Nevertheless, we are also pleased with the strengthened Nordic cooperation to which it is added, with increased cooperation in infrastructure. We must strengthen bilateral cooperation with countries within NATO, whether it be the United Kingdom, Germany, France or the Netherlands. It is also important to be part of the EU's developing defence cooperation, and on the left we are particularly pleased that there is now a consensus that we should commit ourselves to the European Defence Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2719	Let me first say that I am very pleased that the necessary agreement was reached on the long-term plan of defence. It is a long and proud story in Norway that we often manage to make a broad compromise in defence policy, and we have to be careful not to lose that tradition, because it is a strength that is noticed. The Christian People's Party is particularly pleased with increased staffing, helicopter acquisition involving the Special Forces and the Army, and systematic improvement of barracks conditions. The complexity of the threat picture also requires even closer cooperation between military and civil sides than before. The government’s proposal for a long-term plan describes the fact that the defence of Norway is becoming more dependent on a modern total defence that helps to support national and allied defence efforts throughout the crisis spectrum, including daily. The overall defence concept means making best use of the country’s total resources in the new situation. With regard to the new situation, we therefore look forward to further cooperation on the Social Security Communication and the Defence Commission. Over the last few years, the need to reinvigorate the country’s defence, both in terms of personnel and equipment, has been recognised for decades with the reduction of defence. For the first time in several decades, the defense's endurance is now increasing. The defense will grow over the next few years by 5,500 soldiers and commanders. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the negotiations in Stortinget, which leads to a redundancy of 300 already in 2021, which is to be arranged in line with the recommendations of the Defence Chief's professional-military council. I am also pleased that all parties, except SV, could agree in the Committee that NATO membership should be a pillar of Norwegian security and defence policy, as it has been for 70 years. Transatlantic cooperation is essential for Norway’s security. Data attacks are a new part of the Defense, which must be controlled. It is good that the cyber defence is strengthened by ten specialist posts in addition to the second increase in the number of annual works. Defence in the north is strongly strengthened with a fourth mechanized maneuver battalion in Brigade North and with Finnmark national defense. We are pleased that it is now agreed to extend the acquisition of new helicopters to the special forces, so that the army is secured dedicated helicopter support based on Bardufoss. The protection of homes has long played an important role in the defence of Norway, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that the quality reform in Heimevernet continues, with annual training and phase-in of new material, and that the crewing framework is currently 40,000 soldiers. After the introduction of the protection requirement for women, upgrading of barracks with suitable shower and toilet facilities is essential. This has been an important message from our female guardian, and it believes the Christian People's Party that we have to deliver on. A large majority also gathers to ask the government in an appropriate way to promote a case on the replacement of today's coastguard and support vessel and return with possible delays already in the draft budget for 2022. A lot is happening on this front, and a lot of the material is old. Norwegian participation in EDF, the European Defence Fund, is also a win-win situation, for both defence and industry, something the Christian People's Party is pleased with. I welcome the constructive willingness of all parties to negotiate in the Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, and I must express my surprise and disappointment at the fact that a former solution-oriented centre chooses a surrender and party strategy rather than a national effort to make a strong defence. On the other hand, I would like to commend the chairman of the Huitfeldt Committee for constructive management and political crafts through the many meetings we have had. This is a sector that is expensive, but it is more expensive to neglect. Now I am pleased that I can see my children and grandchildren in my eyes and say that we have undertaken the necessary lifting for the defense of our country. In a non-profit world, military defence is not necessary – it should also be said. Actually, it's absurd that you have to spend billions on fighting drugs when many people don't have food on the table. But the work for disarmament must continue, and the ideal must not lead to naivety. Military defence is a necessary evil to ensure the good: freedom, security and democracy. This long-term plan, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, will contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2747	It is, as many have said, a pity that there has not been a broader agreement on the plan. But what is worse than that is the underlying premise for the long-term plan – which the majority in this room seems to agree on – which involves an even more risky game with Norway’s security. There are worse than differences in the dates for starting new projects. I am thinking in particular of three aspects of the long-term plan that have major and serious consequences for our defence, for those who work there, and not least for our everyone's safety. The first is that the plan draws on a problem called F-35, a fighter flight that blows up the cost framework and eats of the action space for the years that are coming, as it has done. This is the main reason why the struggle for the resources in the Defense is so hard that the majority of the Storting has tied their hands and feet by sending a gigantic check to Lockheed Martin every year. These fighter planes are the gamer who pushes the army and the defense of the sea out of the nest, and we should have in our plan a plan to stop the fighter program, sell the planes and start again. Secondly, the plan is based on some desktop theories that the government calls strategic cooperation. In plain text, this means privatisation, outsourcing of competition and the suction of defence professionals in the state treasury. It goes beyond the quality, the employees and the security, and what makes it extra evil in the defence context, is that this revolves around the relationship between civil and military – with serious consequences for the international law of war. What we risk is that the government's privatisation of defence tasks will make civilians legitimate targets in a war situation. It also makes us even more vulnerable to espionage and leaks. Then we come to the third problem, and what is the big elephant in the main hall when we are dealing with the long-term plan today. It is disturbing to see that the plan is under the strong influence of a war-lifting and increasingly unpredictable United States. In April, the government confirmed that instead of listening more to its own professional and research councils who know what creates low tension, peace and security, it has asked an American thought to make recordings. It is called the Rand Corporations and has been a driver of the most criminal wars of our time, such as the Vietnam War and the Iraq War. The traces of Rand Corporations and the United States are many in the long-term plan: strength and deterrence at the expense of tranquillity; extend the capacity to receive allied reinforcements develop long-range weapons for the Norwegian defence Strengthen the contribution to NATO and partner countries Increase participation in international operations It is good that the Stortinget is in favour of a defence commission, but that report does not come before several years, and in the meantime the government will continue to involve Norway further in the dangerous major activisation and allow the United States to provide important leadership in its defence policy. Luckily, the alternative to this is there. It consists of: does not enter into any new agreements with the Americans allow the Norwegian defence to solve the problems on Norwegian soil; providing enhanced training and staffing for maritime defence and coastguard so as to ensure the presence and lifting of our sovereignty in the north; Strengthen Army and Home Protection introduce several new low-voltage measures against Russia have enhanced Nordic defence cooperation consisting of more than beautiful words and fine conferences; All of this is possible if, well, we stop the cost bomb F-35, end precious foreign kingdoms and spend the money on defence of Norway and what is the defence's most important resource: those who work in Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2799	This is an important day for Norway's defence capability, and I am very pleased that we have now reached an agreement on the whole of the long-term defence sector plan and that the plan has been strengthened by new measures in the negotiations. There has been a great deal of work on extensive negotiations at Stortinget. Demanding and major decisions have been made. Norway has served well with a broad consensus in the long lines of security and defence policy, and the consensus has served our country under different governments and changing security policy conditions. The developments this government pointed to in the previous long-term plan, meet us today with increased speed and greater seriousness. Safety challenges are complex and wide-ranging. Russia, our big neighbour in the east, becomes the design factor in the security challenges. Why is that? Could we see this earlier? Well, some analysts point back to Putin's speech at the 2007 Munich Security Conference, where he said that his trust in NATO was weakened, that he had to take other steps. Later that year, Russia terminated the arms control agreement for conventional weapons. The conflict in Georgia in 2008 is also a starting point for negative developments. However, few predicted the rapid modernisation of Russia’s military power which started in 2008 and which continues with full strength today. The illegal annexation of Crimea and the destabilisation of Ukraine in 2014 mark a roadblock in recent European history. Military power was used to achieve policy objectives in Europe. In addition, we regularly discuss China’s emergence, increased major activisation, technological development — the challenges and vulnerability we see there. These are things that affect how we analyze and interpret our neighbourhoods. It has been 13 years since 2007 — not for so long, but it shows how fast defence and security policies can change. I agree with many in this Chamber who say that Norway must have a defence that can carry out the most demanding tasks independently of the dynamics of security policy developments. This is our insurance premium to preserve security and security. The decades since the Cold War has shown that it is easy and quick to build down the defence structure. However, it takes time to rebuild the defense. With the previous long-term plan, this government started a long-term commitment to the Defence. We took important steps. We improved maintenance and access to spare parts. We increased practice and training. And we started the phase-in of strategic capacities. The long-term plan provides a completely necessary financial commitment to our defence capabilities. It is a plan that is realistically funded, sustainable and feasible. Today, we ensure that tomorrow, too, we have a defence that is able to solve the most demanding problems. The government started work on a new long-term plan in August 2018. In addition to internal work on analyses, basic work and policy-making, the government has collected many external input. This ensures a good starting point for choice and priorities and has facilitated a wide and open defence debate. The Defence Research Institute provided a research-based input: How to strengthen the defence of Norway? The aim was to show the overall possibilities for developing the defence. The Chief of Defense's professional-military council gave the most central input to a new long-term plan. In the mandate, the government describes the security policy situation and gives political priorities and leadership. In view of this, the Chief of Defense recommended a comprehensive strengthening of the Defence Force. The government has structured the defence structure along the lines of the previous long-term plan and in line with the priorities of the Trade Union Military Council. The work on a new long-term plan has been closely coordinated with the work of the Ministry of Justice and Defence on the new Dissemination Communication on Social Security in an uncertain world. The growing dependence between defence and civil sectors and the increasing complexity of the threat picture require further development of civil-military cooperation. We just have to keep doing this work in the future. I have traveled around the country to get recordings and have conducted several dialogue meetings. We've been recorded from business and academy. We've been told about the personnel and competences of the range we've reduced, the Svendsen Committee. Priority actions in the long-term plan are precisely based on good input, thorough professional investigations, analyses, policy assessments and priorities. In the coming years, the defence shall phase in a number of new capacities and carry out further upgrades. It will enhance the operational capability of Defence and help to close gaps within existing planning and NATO capability targets for Norway. The government will increase the number of years of defence and align the increase in line with the recommendations of the Professional Military Council. The government will start work on building new departments, and from 2024 we will start work on introducing new, larger material systems. In order to increase the capacity and capacity to support allied reinforcement forces, several framework departments are established. It will start immediately and continue towards 2025. To increase firepower and operational capability, we acquire new tanks for the Army. The introduction of long-range precision fires will further increase this ability. Together with the creation of the fourth manoeuvring battalion in Brigade Nord, this will meet a central NATO target for Norway. We're acquiring new submarines at the end of 2020, and we're setting up a new response squadron in the Marine Hunter Command. In the Air Force, the introduction of the new F-35 fighter aeroplanes and the P-8 maritime patrol aircraft will have the main priority towards 2025. These strategic capacities will be important to strengthen the fighting power of the Defence in a joint operational framework. A new surface structure shall be explored, replacing the surface combat vessel of the day and maintaining its operational capability after 2030. The government will come back to the Storting about this in 2022. We recommend that Bell 412 on Back is replaced by a new helicopter capacity from 2024 that is adapted to the special forces, and the Stortinget has put on a squadron with dedicated helicopter for the Army to be stationed on Bardufoss. The long-term plan represents a significant economic boost for the defence sector. The government added 16.5 billion. NOK more to the Defense in 2028 than we do today. With the changes that have come through the treatment in Stortinget, we're adding on further. Through the negotiations we have agreed to further strengthen the plan. I am pleased that there is broad political consensus in the Storting across the board, and that government and opposition have committed themselves to funding all the measures in the plan. It is with great pleasure that I can see that there is a broad consensus in this room to bet on the Defence. This is an important and demanding work to follow up in the future. This long-term plan shall be implemented and implemented. The government has committed itself to continuing its defence efforts, and we are committed to implementing the changes we are debating here today. It also obligates Stortinget. As politicians, we must be unreasonable and take responsibility for the implementation of the plan as well. This is about our common security.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2839	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2844	There are quite a few times during that time Bakke-Jensen has been Minister of Defense, that we have discussed helicopter to the Army at Bardufoss. Now we've decided by a large majority that we should have our own helicopter quadron for the Army based on Bardufoss. This is in line with the Chief of Defense's advice in Option D. My question is, how is the Minister of Defence going to follow up on this? When can we expect new helicopters to arrive in the Army?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2849	In our proposal for a long-term plan, we have said that we will get the helicopter to the special forces in 2024, without having delivered the matter to Stortinget. We'll come to Stortinget with a case about helicopter in good time before that. Without looking at it in the last few days, it's natural that the acquisition of the helicopter to the Army will also be part of those assessments and that case. The practical thing is you'll find suitable helicopters for the special forces, and then you'll see if you can catch up with a number in that acquisition. I think that'll be the right thing to do. We've been discussing a lot of helicopters for the defense. Very many of the helicopter needs in the north have primarily not been to the Army. It's been to civil society. I have to shoot in that we've seen it seriously. We've delivered dedicated helicopter to the police. We provide a main rescue base between Banak and Bodø, in Tromsø, to increase the civil part. We've increased the helicopter's capacity for health. So we've freed the defense capacity with the grips we've taken over the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2856	So we can expect the helicopter to reach the Army from 2024, and we'll get a case for the Stortinget on the number and organization before that. Is that how you understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2861	I think what's the most constructive, right and most food-efficient thing to do is to see this case in the context of bringing up a case about helicopter to the special forces. So I expect that we will come up with the two proposals on the same subject to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2867	That's a bit the same question, but I want to repeat it anyway, because today, the representative Sandra Borch of the Central Party has a post in the Northern Norwegian debate that the government, the Labour Party and the Advance Party are dealing with empty promises and bluffs in the case of helicopter to the Army. And it's interesting to know, because then we can park it once and for all: the Driver Government, the Labour Party and the Advance Party with bluffs, or will new helicopter come to the Army? Or is it just populism from Sandra Borch? – then we're done with it and we don't have to take another discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2872	Is the government, the Labour Party and the Advance Party bluffing? Of course, it's a dangerous question to answer easily. But if I could be allowed to narrow it down to that with the helicopter and the decision in the long-term plan, which we're talking about, I think we're interpreting that decision clearly. Helicopters shall be present in the north, in Bardufoss. It must be in the form of a squadron. That is to say, the elements to be included in it are established. And, as I said, I think it's both economically right and rational to bring that matter up at the same time as we bring a case about helicopter to the special forces. Then I'm not sure we can convince the representative Borch that we're not bluffing, so ambitious I'm not on behalf of my own speaking skills, but I think we've come to a common understanding of what you want to achieve in the north, and I think that we, the government, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, should be able to agree on the understanding of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2879	When I listen to the debate in the Chamber today, it sounds as if the government parties are very pleased that the opposition has pushed the government into place and made sure to go from continuing the construction of the helicopter environment in Bardufoss to actually putting in place a helicopter quadron on Bardufoss. A helicopter quadron is a military unit, and I would like the Council of State to explain what it will actually mean, both in terms of helicopter, in terms of on-site management, what it will mean by supporting functions, and what the development of the Bardufoss environment it will be, the support it will be for the Army. Because there are some assertions about it that it could be very straightforward if the council parked once and for all. The helicopter quadron on Bardufoss – what will it really mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2884	We have presented in the negotiations what is a specification for a squadron. So it's a squadron with machines, with support environment and with management elements. But we have also said that we will come back to the matter in Stortinget when we come with the helicopter acquisition. Then we also come with the organization. One squadron could be anything from the four Hercules helicopters we have, to the other squadron, where we have eighteen Bell-412 helicopters. But the main definition of a squadron is as we have described it in the negotiations: it's an independent unit. I also believe that it is nice to come back to the matter in Stortinget – by how we organize this – when we are going to acquire a helicopter. In the negotiations we have also been clear that we could imagine seeing this organized as today, with a department in Bardufoss and a department in Rygge, under one squadron. The decision in Stortinget is two squadrons: one at Bardufoss and one at Rygge. It makes us build a bigger organization in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2893	One is in the room today so happy that there is a broad deal about large parts of the long-term plan, but is it really a force of agreement when a deal does not build what defence Norway needs? I want to claim that it may be a weakness that the broad deal that is in the hall today is not in line with the construction we should have had in Norway, and that we see in our neighboring country. In Sweden, an increase in the defence budget is expected to be 7.2 billion. kr annually until 2029, Finland shall increase its defence budget by 54 pst. in 2021, and the United Kingdom increases the defence budget by 4 billion. pounds per year, which is one place between 46 and 47 billion. kr. It's so much money that a person almost can't say it high. Does the Council of States really think that the defence plan we are presenting today is a plan that is in line with the security challenge that he himself describes in his long-term plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2902	Interestingly, the Centre Party, which otherwise relies on national sizes, Norwegian content, Norwegian goods and Norwegian brands, when it comes to difficult questions, must outside the limits to find the answer to national questions. So the starting point for the Swedish defence budget is completely different from the starting point we have in Norway. They had built the defense all the way down. The starting point for Finnish defence is also completely different. It is a country outside the NATO alliance, building completely different capacities to defend Finland against what we do in Norway, which is part of the alliance. We've been working closely with NATO in the last few years. NATO has changed its plan, its concept. They've taken the mission back to the neighbourhoods, to the North Atlantic. We build our strategic plan on the current NATO plan, and we practice every day with our allies on the NATO plan and the national plan, and we build a long-term plan that reinforces precisely those features.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2911	I have to get back to what is the elephant in the room in the long term plan, which most people would prefer not to talk about, namely, the fighter flight purchase and the cost of the rest of the defense. I know that the Minister of Defence will now usually answer that it is not certain that the estimates in the budget are going to turn on and that it depends on currency fluctuations. That's absolutely true, but since he himself has presented a budget that suggests that the cost framework for the flight purchase is going to break, it's like a pretty dark shadow over the work on this long-term plan. If that were to happen, the government had to have a plan to cover that bill, and how to avoid it becoming a huge burden, especially for the Army and the Maritime Defense. Therefore, my question is quite simple: if the cost framework for the fighter aircraft buys cracks, what of the things adopted today are to be scrapped?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2918	This is an interesting, important and recurring debate in this Chamber. The model chosen in 2012, when we decided to buy F-35, for currency control and currency reporting, so that the government could report to the Stortinget what the situation was, is that you pick a period, then you follow the dollar rate, and then you use it as a reference price for the forecasts in the budget. That period is set, and in the 2021 budget, the dollar rate is set at 10.49. If we had used that prognosis at the beginning of November, the dollar rate would have been a little over 9, so we'd have seen completely different numbers. This is a mechanism that has been put in completely for us to report to Stortinget on how the projects go. I have also said in this room to the representative Lysbakken that we are now working with the Ministry of Finance to find a way to remove that burden from the long-term planning of the defense, and instead let the financial competence work with those mechanisms. But as I said, we have reported, and we have good control of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2927	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2932	The ability and power of defence to carry out its mission requires a strong and well-organised organisation, an organisation with expertise in its own ranks, that copes with all the often unforeseen challenges arising in the construction of a defence, which, of course, requires a lot of attention and expertise in crisis, not to talk about in war. This competence and organisation is also a crucial prerequisite for the modernisation of defence in our own time, where technological development requires innovation and dynamic organisational development at a constant and rapid pace – to be able to respond to the defence mission. The working party therefore clearly states in the setting the resistance to the extensive privatisation to which it is now added by tasks that have been previously subject and resolved by the Defence itself. The defence has chosen to call it – or the ministry has chosen to call it – strategic cooperation, but it is pure and fair privatisation. The Workers' Party has, in all the years we have run the Defense, through government, never opposed the Defence to purchase services, and we are of course not opposed to cooperation with private business on a principle basis. We've never been, and we're not today either. But that's not what we're talking about here, because what we're seeing in this long-term plan is a strong and clear development towards the defence organisation being made so dependent on private services that the defense itself loses competence and thus enough knowledge to secure and manage its own organisation in a correct and relevant way. This is serious. It is serious because the government in its proposal for a long-term plan does not seem to look at these problems and developments and what it could create in view of the stability of the defence itself. That's what this case is about, because what we're looking at is what's in the progressive development of the Defence Organisation, is that it weakens preparedness and can also clearly weaken our defence capabilities in the long term. Repairs and access to spare parts and other commercial services are so heavily made up of private suppliers and operators that the defence may lose its ability to manage. The Labour Party has previously warned very clearly against this development. I'm repeating this warning here now. After all, there is a well-known and clear conflict between the Workers' Party and the Right on privatisation and so-called outsourcing of competition in society in general, on the so-called balance of society between public services and the private sector. I suspect, of course, that this underlying ideological leadership is the driver of the government and the right parties here as well. What is important here, however, is the serious consequences of this, which is therefore not sufficiently discussed in the long-term plan. Other representatives have already discussed this, but I will draw three points in the extension of what I have just said. First of all, just a small passage: I see in the media that the defence is now beginning to be afraid of taking in soldiers who have parents who come from other countries, that there is a need to put in place significant new security measures to prevent people who are Norwegian citizens, who want to serve in the Defence, from being allowed to do so because they have parents in other countries, that they come from other countries. I think it's hard to check. That's of course, in and on my own, I respect that point of view. However, the question of the safety clearance of personnel from private companies who are required to perform sensitive repairs and participate in sensitive operations is therefore not highlighted as a problem. It's obvious, and it's strange that the government doesn't discuss this fundamental issue in the long-term plan and take it seriously. So, of course, the heavy question of principle, which has also been raised here in the past: what do you do with civilian personnel in crisis and war situations if you are completely dependent on them to participate, and thus they come in as military personnel? The problem is that the government is trying to go around. We have to discuss this. That's why we suggest in the vote that this must be returned by the government, and we suggest that all so-called contracts with private companies be frozen until the Stortinget has said its principle position along these dimensions that I mention here. So it's mentioned, and I'm saying it once more, this special privatisation of the cleaning team. Here's the ideological driver out there and going too far. I think that the Norwegian defence really should think in the direction that you should take care of your own personnel, and not start privatisation, which is so-called cheaper. However, the Committee has not received any evidence that this is the case. We have not received it. The ministry is unable to confirm that this is so much cheaper. There might be something cheaper on the pay side, of course, for those who now have to wash have to wash too much less money than those who worked there before, and get a much worse pension. There is no credit for those who have served in the Defence for decades and made an honest effort to be subjected to such pressure as this. I am a little sorry that there is no majority for the proposals that the Workers' Party and SV are promoting on this point. Two other things in the end: one is that this might, or probably, be the last rather broad defence policy debate I participate in as a big-scale representative. Then I'll use the time to make a reflection. I can use current examples here, like Andøya, the planning of the continuation of Andøya. I do not respond to the Andøya case, but what is now on the table regarding the question of handling. The corvette is another example. I'm just taking two current examples now. That you can't plan this properly, I don't understand. The size is behind the defense's desire to shut down Andeya, okay, but then you have to be able to continue what is the intention of the decision, namely to grant Andeya the rights they have in view of the land disposal that is now at their disposal. I don't understand it, and I say – to the extent that someone at all cares about what I mean – that I don't accept this. I do not understand that we are still going to get examples that the defence, after adopting things, does not follow what is to be followed and that planning is not good enough. Now I'm just using this as an example, but I have a lot of examples, because I have a story with the Defense all the way back to 1995-1996, when I was Secretary of State in the Ministry of Defence. I recognize this, and here it's not getting any better. This has nothing to do with the state council now, but it has something to do with the whole being, which I do not accept. The very last thing I'm going to say is: I haven't heard the representative Borch's statements before I heard it now in the hall, but I just want to say about it eventually that of course it's not material from Borch's side. The other thing that is saying is that the comment from the Center Party had not led to anything other than what is the majority comment, it is absolutely certain.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2960	I would also like to start by thanking our committee chairman and the rapporteur for good work, and for the fact that all the groups of the committee – those who wanted to do so themselves – could be included in a factual cooperation on what we could be together on. This did not prevent the individual groupings from having good opportunities to produce their special points of reference where the majority worked towards a comprehensive long-term plan which also brings together a broad majority in this Chamber. I would say it is a strength for the Storing and parliamentary cooperation when we can work like this. Then we get to live with that one of the members thought it was more interesting not to attend all the informal work meetings and rather to appeal to us through the media, where we also got to re-explain what we had meant, and sometimes to what we had not meant – a little break with the good cooperation we otherwise had. It's a shame, because it may also be that the Center Party with the marginalized itself from a broader position – but it's a choice that they're, of course, the sovereigns to make. In particular, one theme became important during the committee procedure, not least with close communication with the Minister of Defence along the way. It was that we now, in agreement with the government, issue a clear majority here in the Chamber for Norway to join the European Defence Fund, EDF, or in Norwegian: the European Defence Fund. We find this to be a good match with the government's own European strategy for 2018-2021 and the work programme for cooperation with the EU, where ensuring the Norwegian defence industry was described as one of the priorities. The government then underlined the importance of ensuring Norwegian defence industry market access in Europe. Then you can ask: But if we don't have it automatically, we're in the EEA and have access to all the EU countries' public competition, etc.? It is only in the defence sector and defence acquisitions that all countries are subject to derogations from this restriction of competition and tendering. That means if you're going in here, you have to have other events because the EEA agreement at this point doesn't give us access. Then more committed cooperation is needed to ensure the defence industry the market access we want. Cross-border research and development is an important measure to break down these trade barriers and to ensure better use of funds in the field of defence. So if Norway is to strengthen the industrial competence of defence, as we would like to do, we need to cooperate more closely with other nations on the development of materials, as we do with Germany on submarines and missiles, and which EDF is to facilitate at an overall European level. The defence industry relies on an additional entry portal to participate in European research and development projects together with European allies. On behalf of the Ministry of Defence, the consultancy company BDO has estimated that a Norwegian outreach to EDF could result in a loss of 60 pst. of our arms exports to the EU, and 40 pst. of all our exports of defence equipment are currently going to EU countries. The government's conscious effort to keep the door open until EDF has given us this opportunity. On 28 September this year, EU Member States decided that Norway, as the only non-member, should be given the opportunity to participate in the Defence Fund. Well, then we'll have to take advantage of that. The European Commission has proposed to set aside around 7 billion. EUR for the period up to 2027. Norway’s share of this figure is estimated to be about. 2 billion. kr for the entire seven-year period. The same consulting company, BDO, has also made a calculation of the financial gains. They're about three billion. kr. In addition, all the political and security policy arguments for being involved in enhanced European cooperation, a strengthened European component of NATO, which our transatlantic allies also want. Then we are very pleased that we could make a Roman number decision, XXIV, a marshy earth that Norway is joining EDF.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e2982	I would also like to start by thanking the Minister of Defence first, for an active participation in the discussions we had when it came to resolving some issues when we discussed them together. I think that was very useful. In addition, he gave at least the impression that he has power over his own office, which is something that the few governments have. He actually made a lot of concessions. I don't know if he had any back support, but he was at least clear in the discussions. I would also like to thank the case rapporteur/committee leader for a very good way to conduct the meetings, very inclusive – I appreciate that very much. On page 11 of the long-term plan, the nine tasks of the Defence Agency are listed, and it is in fact only mentioned in one of them that international cooperation or international operations are to be carried out. It is called UN peace initiatives. Then it's a little weird that that's what's the main focus almost always when we talk about the defense, that's that the defense is out. What is a priority in the Defence – I have also mentioned it to the Minister of Defence before – is also a little strange, because everything is at the same time a priority: the defence of Norway, cooperation in NATO, Nordic cooperation, cooperation in the EU, Baltic cooperation, cooperation in the United Nations. But if you give priority to everything, you don't give priority to anything. It has to be done in the future, that is, to give priority and say no to something. I have the impression that we're going to be involved in absolutely everything, but we really don't have to. We're going to focus on NATO and the defence of our own country. It will probably also focus on errors, as it is not certain that Norwegian military forces belong today in Afghanistan – 20 years after 9/11. The soldiers who are now there from the American side were not even born in 2001, at least some of them. It says, well, we can't be somewhere forever. At some point – when the Al Qaida leader is taken, or when the Taliban is defeated – we have to say that the winner is ours, now we're going home. If we're going to continue like that, there will always be different groups in Afghanistan that we can't fight, and that will be an excuse to stay there. We're in Iraq, Jordan and Libya. When are we really going to give up on these things? Contrary to what the representative of Moxnes said – he had the fasit from the old days – that the Americans are war hotheads, the Americans are on their way out of these conflicts. They don't want to be involved in these conflicts anymore, they don't see the benefits of their own soldiers being slaughtered on foot in countries they don't really have any kind of knowledge or knowledge of. I think Norway should also think about that. We have to look forward – what is the Defense going to do? This is why it is important for a defence commission to see whether it is really beneficial for Norway to participate in all these international operations, which will be less and less involved. What responsibility do we have in these countries at all? Doesn't everyone have a responsibility to clean up their own country? And what do Western states actually do in these countries? It's an excuse that they can't clean up themselves. In addition, refugee flows are also created on the basis that we are there. It's not a good solution, and we have to understand soon that this is not going to go. In the future we're not going to be there anyway. Now we can take a lead in NATO to see with the United States how we're going to get out of these conflicts. So to the European Defence Fund: it was a bit interesting to listen to the representative Tetzschner, because he was very concerned about this defence fund. This was one of the last thing we agreed to, after pressure from the Progress Party, that we should force the government into action. Then it is a little special that a representative of the largest government party says that this is something they have fought for too long. I am aware that diplomacy has been carried out in Brussels, but you didn't have the money. And I have to say that if you don't have 2 billion. After eight years when you pay 1 billion. kr per F-35, then there is something wrong with the priorities of the government budget. I don't understand that it's possible to have so many difficulties finding the two billion in eight years when you can find 1 billion. kr for each and every fighter aircraft. It is possible that the fighter planes were too expensive, as someone has said, but that is at least what the price is today. The defence industry will be involved in this further development of a high-tech industry, but they will have to cooperate, and cooperation in Europe is important. It has nothing to do with the EU. We have been allowed to participate in something. It is not the EU that sits at the top and controls; it is actually the countries themselves that do it, the defence industry does it, technological experts do it – those who can do it. It is not that the EU is an umbrella over and that everything belongs to the EU. It's not like that. It is the national State that governs this, the national State that spits in money, the national State that deals with R & D, the national State that operates in technological development — and it has spin-off effects for the rest of industry and for high technology. This is an extremely good measure, which is not like putting a lot of money into the EU that is missing. This is the money we get back; it's the expenditure on the acquisition of income. That's good for the industry. It's really scandalous that we're talking about something that we can really get something left for, that can really create jobs, and that really makes us go into the election campaign and say, "Look what we got! The small corner stone company in that part of the country is now saved because they became subcontractors to the Kongsberg Group, Nammo or who it should be. That's brilliant! We shouldn't even sit and discuss it. We should just say that this is something we join. So I'm happy, on behalf of the Advancement Party, that we've got this fund in place. I'll tell you that many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3005	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Defence and the Government for a well-presented and well-worked long-term plan, and, in addition, I would also like to thank the excellent committee work of the Chairman of the Huitfeldt Committee. The new long-term plan for the defence sector is a good plan that will strengthen defence considerably over the next few years. The plan foresees significant growth in the defence budget over the next eight years — more than 2 billion. kr annually over an eight-year period. It gives us a progressively stronger defence and, in the long run, more than 6,000 more employees, guardians, those who are in the first-time service and reserveists in the Defense. At a time of increased global and regional tension, it is also vital that we continue the good work of strengthening defence. Since 2013, the government has gradually strengthened the Defence, step by step, and we have been given a defense with ever better reaction, combative force, but also endurance. It is our job to guarantee the security of the country and the security of its inhabitants. This is an eternal and constant responsibility of the country's elected representatives regardless of party colour. And we must take this responsibility very seriously. The new long-term defence sector plan is the first in several decades to significantly increase the size of defence. In the following years, several new standing departments of the Defence Agency will be created, inter alia. in Brigade North and in the Special Forces. This gives us a more combat-ready defense in a more troubled time. The new long-term defence plan provides for the first time for many years new spare parts in the defence, and such departments have barely had the defence since the mobilization defence was closed nearly 20 years ago. In the Central East there are now several new mobilization departments, a new military politicibatalion, a new heavy engineering battalion, a new battalion for allied support and a new CBRN company for handling, among others. chemical, biological and nuclear threats. The new departments are in addition to the already adopted escalation in Finnmark with the new battalion in Porsangs and the construction of the border guard. It is gratifying to see that new departments will be set up in the next few years, and that more people will have a stronger connection with the Defence even if they do not serve in the Defence to daily. This also contributes in a very good way to ensuring the anchoring of defence in the Norwegian people. Today, more than 10,000 reservists are part of the defence structure outside the Home Office, and, of course, all the country's 40,000 home security soldiers come. In the next few years, there will be a total of several reserves. It's a pleasure. It is also very gratifying that the number of first-time guardians will increase significantly over the next few years, from between 7000 and 8000 to nearly 11000 annually. In other words, 3,000 more young men and women are required to perform their duty of protection on an annual basis through the initial service. The National Defence Agency is the very foundation for the anchoring of defence in people, and such a significant increase in the number of people who absolve their duty to the country also ensures that our defence remains a defence of the people. This is a very important and joyful grip. Then I will also underline the importance of defence in my own home state. Here, too, there are important defence missions at the Rygge Air Station. The new long-term defence sector plan underlines Rygge’s importance for the defence sector and the base regains its old name – Rygge Aviation Station – and becomes one of the three key bases of the Air Force. In 2018, the government created 134 Luftving on Rygge with responsibility for, among others. 335 squadrons and Hercules planes. Last year, helicopters on Rygge were organized in a new department called SOAS 339 Squadron – Special Operations Aviation Squadron. Helicopters on Rygge are with this a separate component under the Special Forces of the Defence along with the Special Command of the Defence and the Marine Hunter Command. This is particularly important for our national anti-terrorism preparedness. As a home base for the Bell helicopters, Smoking is essential that the Special Forces of Defense and the police emergency squads can quickly move out and stop serious attacks on the country or on-going life-threatening violence. From 2024, the government will also acquire new and better helicopters for the special forces, including the new helicopters, for the Rygge Air Station on its home base.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3030	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3035	Presence in the north has always been an important part of the Workers' Party defence line. It just becomes more important. We live in a troubled world, and then I want to say that security and dialogue go hand in hand. Not least, it is important in times of stress. That's why I'm proud of the party, which is both for a strong defense throughout the country and especially wants to strengthen the north. We're also the North Area Party. It's also important, because these things are closely related. A modern defense, a modern army, needs helicopter support. The army needs dedicated helicopters. The Labour Party believes that, and we've been working too long. We have also disagreed with the government, which has long wanted to remove everything that has been on Bardufoss when it comes to helicopter. The only thing that gets the Army dedicated helicopter, which provides us with helicopter support at Bardufoss, is a majority in Stortinget. Therefore, there has been an inevitable demand from the Workers' Party in the conversations that have been, that it needs to be put in place. It's an important victory. There's a lot we're also dissatisfied with, but this is a victory. It's important to celebrate the important victories. There's a broad majority that is now behind this. I have to say I'm a little surprised at the discord that seems to be being designed when it comes to the proposals that exist. My usual well-known colleague Sandra Borch has had a very surprising play that the proposal that lies here is empty promises that lead people behind the light, while the other proposal that lies here, which is about. identical, shall contribute to the helicopter at Bardufoss. One proposal says to ‘acquire new helicopters for dedicated helicopter support for the Army’, with ‘a squadron on Bardufoss’, the other saying ‘extend the purchase of dedicated helicopter to the Army’, with ‘an own squadron based on Bardufoss’. So, it's quite identical! So how one can be empty promises and the other must ensure this, I don't understand. It is interesting to ask the representative of Navarsete if she agrees with the representative of Borch in her statements. The post that came here, could almost say that if you had just written it in a neuron, it would have been okay, because then you could have seen who had the suggestion. But now it is probably also the case that Navarsette left the negotiations before one had agreed to write it in a new Norwegian or in a bookcase. What is important is that trust in the decision is about who will implement it. In 2024 it is hopefully a red-green government that I have full confidence in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3048	Never again April 9th. I haven't experienced the war, I don't even have parents who could tell me anything about the experiences of the war. But the stories I brought with me anyway. That's enough for me to repeat: never again April 9th. Most people understand that the safety situation and the picture of the challenge have changed since 1940 and that it is constantly changing. Politicians must then also be able to change their policy approaches and take on the expected safety profile of today and the future when policy-making takes place. We have good cooperation with NATO, but Norway must also take greater responsibility for its own defence and security, while allied support and cooperation are becoming increasingly important. In recent years, with the Right in government, the Defence in North Norway has been strengthened, and this strengthening continues through this long-term agreement. And what is more natural than the fact that the northern regions, with their strategic importance, are also ensuring a good defence structure? I would also like to thank the Labour Party and the Advance Party, who are taking responsibility and have contributed to a broad consensus on this important long-term plan with the government parties here on the Stortinget. But it's sad to experience that the Center Party is once again standing on the sideline and is little constructive to be involved in important solutions for our country. I also want to raise some of the priorities here for North Norway. Because, as I said, the defense will grow strongly in the north over the next few years, from the churches and beyond southward. Such a escalation of defence in the north has not occurred since the 1980s. In total, the defense in the next few years will grow by 6,200 employees, soldiers and reserveists, and a lot of this will come in the north. The garrison in South Varanger gets increased size and impact power when it is now strengthened by an additional hunter's company. A quadron is created on Bardufoss, and it receives new helicopters from 2024 and beyond. A new maritime response squadron will be established in the Marine Jeger Command, starting from Ramsund Warsstation. In addition, we have added 1.3 billion to the state budget for 2021. kr for the defence sector’s property, construction projects in Northern Ireland. Finally, I am very pleased that the impact benefits. Nordland Right has worked to get a clear impression of the Defense also on Helgeland. With the large build-up of the Defence in the north, North Norway's women and men must also be recruited. The majority, with the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, therefore ask the government to determine whether Drevjamoen can be a recruiting school, both for HV and for the Army. I look forward to this investigation and hope that we can look forward to more defence activity in Helgeland as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3063	The e-service is of major importance for the execution of the mandated defence missions. These are small environments that work closely together to keep up-to-date with development. The maritime surveillance environment in Andeya has been important. Splitting the environments there will over time weaken the expertise of the personnel and be the difference between success and failure. Evens are and will be unsuitable and will quickly become a billionth of a sluice, perhaps entirely in line with Mongstad. It's obvious to everyone that Andøya is the flight station of opportunity, while Evenes has many serious limitations. Now it can be hard on Andøya, but it has after all a cross-stripe. During the visit of a P-8 on Andøya, the second pilot was asked if they had calculated the limitations of the takeoff from path 17 on Evenes. He replied that they had made a quick estimate and found that they would not be able to take off on track 17 with full operational load. Coast Guard and the need for my own helicopter capacity I picked up in 2018. We then found that we had weakened the action force of the Coast Guard because of the situation. Coast Guard is an incredibly important tool to keep order and control of the rich resources that we are set to control. Everything has to be taken care of here. I've talked a little bit to people in South Varanger and Porsanger, who have also had some defence activity. Porsangs lack infrastructure for the new activity there. The housing masses are torn away before you have built a new one, so there is a lack of housing and storage space. The GSV also lacks housing. One wants people working at GSV to settle in South Varanger and contribute, so that there will be life and touch there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3074	In some major, heavy and important issues for the nation, it is essential to stand together and find common minimum multiples, to find out the majority that benefit the nation. That's what I'm saying because the long-term defence plan is just an example of that. From the Progress Party we would like to spend even more money on the Defence. We should have liked to have an even clearer reinforcement of the Defence in the time to come, but it is also important to take responsibility and participate in lifting the Defense and providing the basis in this Chamber that is necessary to actually strengthen the Defence. Then it's easy to get all the way on the sideline, as the Center Party does, only to pursue pure opposition policy against the agreements that you can reach. Bardufoss Air Station – finally, there will be a majority to establish a helicopter quadron there. It's an example of an important breakthrough that the Progress Party, along with the rest of the opposition minus the Center Party, brought with it the government parties. I guess it's no big secret that the government didn't want it. The government has for two rounds presented a long-term plan that did not at all facilitate it, but that pointed to the continued decline of Bardufoss. But we got rid of the government parties. We got to a majority. If we had had the Center Party in that fold, it might have been even easier. Then it might have happened earlier, and then it might have been even clearer. But I record that we have a center party that is more concerned with producing what I almost want to characterize as ‘fake news’, accusing others of being irresponsible and making empty promises, while they themselves have a blank brushed weapon. The claims made in the Northern Lights today, in the Nordic debate, are quite special, because the difference between having empty promises and having real promises is thus one word – between the word ‘acquisition’ and the word ‘buy’. The majority in this room are in favour of the acquisition of new helicopters, while the Center Party is talking about the purchase of new helicopters. The majority decides next time the Storting vote, it becomes acquisition, but it is just as irresponsible or not credible because you have to use the word «buy». It's purely political. The Central Party is running an unworthy political game about Norwegian defence capabilities. I would have thought better about the Center Party, but in this case they have fully shown what they are: reinhekla populists who have obviously learned a lot from Trump.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3085	When the Solberg government took over, a long-term effort was started to strengthen the defense, and we see the result today. The civil lots prioritised resuming maintenance, refilling with spare parts and increasing activity. Manning and activity were strengthened, and strategic capacities were acquired. The base wall was repaired, as Harek Rivers used to say. The government is continuing its efforts to defend the plan we are debating today. At the beginning of this year, I had the pleasure of attending the Chief of Defense College with the President, and part of the course was a round trip where we visited the various weapons. The stories we were told there match the picture the councils also draw: better material, more material, more practice and relevant education and training. And of course, there's always a lot that can get better, and in this long-term plan, we're improving response and endurance and making national defence capabilities more robust. We also see state security and social security in a better context. Personnel are the defence's most important resource. That's why I'm glad the government is increasing the staff in the Defense Department. In the current long-term plan, staff have been transferred from office to operational activity. In the new long-term plan, crews will be increased by 2,200 years of age and 3 000 compulsory by 2028. But a strengthening of the defense is about more than just the size. We are totally dependent on the right skills and the right people employed. The general duty of protection allows the defence to choose the most qualified and motivated candidates for service, regardless of gender. In fact, the duty of protection is to make Norwegian soldiers some of the best in the world. As Eastfold representative, I have to enter the helicopter. The Gjørv Commission report called for a counter-terrorist capacity of the special forces, so it was decided to move helicopters from Bardufoss, so there are 3 helicopters left there and 15 on the Back. This was a completely necessary collection of forces of hulls and crews to increase the operational capability of the special forces. This is an important resource for the whole country. Special forces are now proposed to be reinforced by increased manning and not least by new helicopter capacity. I am pleased that the government today is agreeing to purchase new helicopters while ensuring helicopter support for the Army in a squadron at Bardufoss. A few years ago, Rygge was threatened by severe cuts both in personnel and tasks. With the new long-term plan, development is now pointing upwards instead, and Rygge is becoming one of the three most important bases of the Air Force.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3100	As a representative of Northland, from the Mosjøen in the Wefsn municipality and with some from Blåfjell in Drevja, it is no surprise that I would like to say a little about the Drevjamo and the possibility of a two-part recruiting school, where we would like to welcome all the recruits from Trøndelag and northwards. The debate about a two-part recruiting school has been strange. I don't remember it happening until a government council wrote numerous readings in the local language, and delivered the interview time and time again, to show its strong resistance to a good local initiative that benefits the whole country. And the arguments include:\t\t You can change the settings of the The dice mo is located in the centre of the East. This means that most recruits have the opportunity to travel there without having to fly. The drive jam would cost a lot more to clean up and also give more travel expenses. The cube mo is chosen because there is already a base in use, which has very good infrastructure and capacity for further development. These are arguments that are not supported by numbers or other documentation. At the same time, we could read last September that when the new recruits in the Garden were going to start the service in the fall, the calculation did not go up. They had called in too many soldiers. There was no bed room for everyone, and the recruits were put in the tent, at the Teningmoen. I would encourage everyone to read the report from Vista Analysis, which shows that a two-part recruiting school will provide both economic and environmental benefits to the Defense. Both for ticket costs and CO 2 emissions, the Drivejamo is the best. In this report, it has been suggested that the recruits from Trøndelag and North Norway should be trained at Drevjamoen. There are two calculations made: one where all the recruits travel to and from the sea by plane, and one where the recruits who live far away travel by plane to Bodø and on by train. The report has calculated the cost of tickets for defence, the time spent by recruiters, total CO 2 emissions from air travel and train travel and the net present value of the total socio-economic cost over a 20-year analysis period. The conclusion is ready. For both options, a two-part solution will provide lower travel costs and less CO 2 emissions than if all recruits were sent to the Teringmoen. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party for calling for an investigation into using the Drivejamo as a supplement to the Terningmoen. A two-part solution will be good, both for the defense itself and for the recruits to be trained.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3136	Norway is a very small country, but is strategically important located here in the north. Our neighbourhoods are increasingly an arena for major activisation, and the invasion of Crimea in 2014 marked a new era of security policy. Russia used military power against a neighbouring country in Europe to achieve political goals. Norway is therefore facing a new and more demanding security situation today, and this is pointed out in that way in all safety assessments and analyses from both the Police Security Service, the Intelligence Service, NATO and the National Safety Authority. On page 7 of the long-term plan of defence, the government writes: ‘Not since the end of the Cold War, Norway and our allies have faced such an extent of simultaneous security challenges — against the state, society and the individual.’ That is what the government writes, but it is going to describe it, because unfortunately, in relation to the concerns that are actually being raised here, the long-term plan that is being debated today is far from enough. Because the government doesn't do much to give our defense the muscles it needs. I think it's all a tragedy, I get worried. The government doesn't listen to the head of defense, and they don't listen to the recordings that come from those who wear the shoes. We in the Central Party are listening, and we believe – as those we are listening to – that Norway needs a stronger defence. The situation is so serious that we really shouldn't keep pushing on the build-up of our defence capabilities. The center party will therefore want us to do a lot over the next four years to strengthen the defense. It's about getting more soldiers, crews and buying all the equipment you need. We also want 1,100 more employees, so we're getting a little bit closer to 2024 when the next plan is presented. In addition, the Central Party wants the Army to have tanks for the next four years and its own helicopters. This is not what the government wants. We in the Central Party think it is a real sin, and not least we think it is very worrying that the government does not take more responsibility on its guard, but rather only chooses to promise a stronger defence only in the 2030s.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3153	I understand that there are many here who have read my article in the Nordic debate, and the debate until now testifies to the fact that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party are not safe on the proposal they have agreed with the government on, regarding the helicopter to the Army at Bardufoss. It also had the government's response, because he knows that there is not enough money left for it. That is exactly what is the whole difference between the government and the supporting parties The Progress Party and the Workers' Party set up against the proposals of the Centre Party. And then I want to remind the Labour Party and the Advance Party of what happened just four years ago. Four years ago, the Workers' Party also believed that they had helped save the helicopters at Bardufoss. What happened then? Then most of the Bell helicopters to the Defense were moved to Back. So for the Center Party, it is obvious that upgrading the Defence is absolutely necessary to ensure Norwegian interests and Norwegian self-determination. The threat picture in both the world and Norway is changing rapidly, and there is no doubt that the seriousness is increasing. Today, we have a completely different security policy situation than what we had just ten years ago, and it requires action from corruption and government, and it requires willingness to defend the muscles they need. We do not think that the government and the support parties are responding to this long-term plan. The Center Party will have more soldiers and more personnel from 2021. Both the Air Force, the Army, the Marine Defense and the Home Guard need more staff to achieve the operational capability, training and practice and more, as well as to meet NATO's strength requirements. The centre party has also been clear that we need to prioritise new tanks and new helicopters for the Army, because here are investments that are far overtime, and we have seen year after year that this government is deprioritising investments for the Army, and the consequences of this are understaffing and a great aftermath. So what are the consequences of the government and the supporting parties The Progress Party and the Workers' Party's long-term plan for the next four years? Yeah, that's: no more soldiers than what was in the original plan of the government No battle chariots for the Army no helicopter for the Army not a greater protection of the home no reassessment of Andøya Aviation Station This can't be part of the Center Party. We want a strong national defence to ensure that Norway is going to be NATO in the north. The centre party is impatient, and therefore we have our own proposals with clearer efforts and not least with a willingness to invest in our defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3182	In examining the long-term plan, it has been a key issue for the Central Party, and it is that we must have a defence that meets the security policy challenges we face. That's what this is about. We're going to have a defense that can secure Norway, which is strong enough, and which has enough people and equipment to meet the challenges facing the world around us. As a fresh member of the Committee, it surprises me that experienced politicians, such as the representative Tetzschner and the representative of Elvenes, criticise the Central Party for talking about politics. We've always said that we're not getting a pass on to our solutions. We want more employees in the Defence, we want investments in tanks, in air protection and in the Home Protection – which the other parties do not want. Then it's about politics for us, and that's why we couldn't agree to an agreement that the rest of the committee has agreed to. It's also very funny to see in the setting that you're very satisfied with a consensus that is very close to meeting the challenges the defense manager says we have. The government and the supporting parties reiterate the description of the security challenges from the Chief of Defence's professional military council, but the solutions recommended by the Chief of Defence are not chosen. For example, the Centre Party reports that the Right has now brought more people to speed up the 300-year-old work in 2021. It's a good thing, but it's not a win, because that means no strengthening of the personnel situation beyond what the Right has proposed in the long-term plan. The Central Party has proposed a strengthening, we have said that we will have 500 annual works in 2021, and we will raise the target for the entire period. We want 1,100 years' worth of work in 2024. It's a reinforcement. And when we can't get an impact on that kind of reinforcement, there's no sense in us being part of a consensus that's really a tragedy to our defence ability. The centre party has also proposed to build a slightly brigade south to strengthen the Army. All of the other parties could have joined in, and we didn't get a pass on that either. There's one positive thing: we're glad that an overall committee has joined a recruiting school at the Terningmoen, and that Haslemoen and Drevjamoen are to be investigated as a supplement to it. But it is also important for the Center Party to stress that there has to be a concrete investigation of those locations, not just a desk investigation in the Ministry of Defence. We expect to contact owners and make condition reports based on actual conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3193	There is a gap between threat assessment and defence tasks in this plan. Threats, objectives and hand-held actions are not interrelated in time or space. The plan shall address the tasks primarily during the first four-year period of the future long-term plan. It still doesn't. The Central Party believes that the conversion of the Defense into an intervention defense in the decades after the Cold War was necessary, and it was right, but it went too far. The defense was marginalized, it became too narrow, it became too small in volume, and one lost the ability to operate in bandages, which is the most important thing about the Brigade. It's very clear. Norway must have a modern defence that is part of a strong and credible alliance. This would have a deterrent effect and reduce the likelihood of us coming into a situation where Norway or the security of allies is challenged and must be defended by military power. Today’s threat picture requires better response capability, and it requires better endurance than the Defence today provides. The maintenance of the defence must be carried out vigorously, the centre party will have 500 annual works in 2021, by 2024 there will be 1 100 more annual works, and by 2028 there will be 3 200 more annual works in the Defence. Training capacity must be increased in line with the plan for manning. The army must be strengthened considerably and it must be strengthened quickly. They've waited long enough – they've waited long enough, it's got to happen fast. Air protection needs to be strengthened through the acquisition of new air protection systems with long-range air protection missiles. After all, we've bought F-35. The next year must be used for planning the phase-in of battle vehicles from no later than 2023. It is fully possible, and it should be given priority. In connection with the planned purchase of new helicopters to the special forces from 2024 onwards, we must extend this with dedicated helicopters to the Army in a separate squadron with its own management and support systems. A brigade that has no gripable helicopter support is not a brigade. There must be a whole structure, with new personnel and new weapon systems requiring a new type of education. And in order to put in place the necessary fighting force, it needs interaction. Notified structural elements and weapon systems cannot be pushed into the dark, creating inefficiency, uncertainty and poor use of resources. Therefore, the Centre Party will speed up both acquisitions and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3206	Norway is a long-distance country with large sea areas, valuable natural resources, a small population and a neighbouring power. The Norwegian coast has a strategic military position that leads us to be more exposed to conflicts. The Central Party believes that Norway must have a national defence that enables it to deal with a wide range of threats, tackle military crises and support civilians in the event of a crisis. We see a world around us that is more troubled than before, and that means that as a national assembly you follow it up and safeguard the interests of the people. We do that by having a credible defence, and in order to create a credible defence, we need to have planning and opportunities to make political priorities and professional assessments towards the goals we have set. It has been demanding for the defence budget, the defence and various governments when we have prioritised being a good ally by supporting NATO operations. It's just as good to admit that the defence structure has been too adapted to NATO's foreign operations, and that this has weakened national defence when no money has been put on the table. There are many things that are promised in this debate, and more details that should have been the subject of debate. There are many questions you should have asked, but often when you ask them, the government is unable to answer reassuringly. The combat force in the Army is severely weakened as a result of the Army's tanks being old and out of date and the Bell helicopters have moved southwards. Minister of Defence Bakke-Jensen believes that the defence is strengthened by political will and increased government appropriations. The proposal the government made in the autumn after the Storting asked for a nomination of the proposal in ours, shows that the Right's will is not so strong when political rhetoric is to be translated into hard currency. The reality is that the government, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have fallen under the lowest option described by the head of defence in their professional-military council. In the past, the Defence Minister has been very concerned with the authority of the Chief of Defense and felt that using the Chief of Defence's professional military advice in the debate helped to weaken it. Now I understand why. There are major deficiencies and weaknesses in our reception capacity. As a result, the ‘power collection’ of the government has led to Norway being very vulnerable. The majority do not play in line with the realities of security policy. Moving the Army's resources is not a reinforcement. Depriving the Army of air mobility by sending the Bell helicopters south is not a reinforcement. Putting down Andeya is not a reinforcement. Passing on the coastlines is not a reinforcement. Introducing a education reform in Defence is not a reinforcement. As a result of the fatal decision to move a full operational base on Andeya to a very uncertain project on Evenes, the squadron on Andeya stands almost on the bar hill. Only heroic efforts by the Andeya personnel ensure that Norway has a small monitoring capacity that can show presence in the northern regions and contribute to valuable intelligence collection. The wholeness of the majority does not add up to the necessary strengthening of the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3225	Everything was easier before. In earlier times, it was enough to build up a defense that would stand up to an invasion. The danger of a traditional invasion is considerably lower now than before, but the defence must be robust enough and prepared for the worst possible outcome. The spectre of possible threats that the Defence must prepare for and resist is considerably wider today, which imposes greater demands on the universality of competences and material than before. Today we encounter hybrid operations where it is unclear which countries, organisations or interest groups are behind. The objectives of the hybrid operations may be unclear, but they may be political or economic interests, or there may be pressure to re-establish legitimate democratic decisions in this Chamber. An example of a hybrid operation is when we are exposed to ‘GPS jamming’ in the northern regions, as Russia is doing. «GPSjamming» is by definition electronic warfare. This is an unacceptable instrument that affects both the Defence and our civil society in the north. For 15 to 20 years, we heard about the peace dividend. The budget cuts The defence experienced from the last half of the 1990s to 2014 was used for good purposes for society elsewhere. Today we pay the price of the peace dividend. We see that the defense was hit too hard. Stocks of fuel, ammunition and parts were emptied, equipment was old and worn out, and defence departments were too small. In other words, the job number one after the government change was to make what we had work. At the same time, there have been innovations and necessary investments. Over the last seven years, the response and endurance of defence have been significantly enhanced and national defence capabilities have become much more robust. But it's still a long way to go to re-establish a satisfactory defense that should be timeless. The aim of the investments made must be to re-establish a defence to be maintained and maintained independently of the threat picture around us. Putting down a capacity is done with a decision in this room, re-establishing a capacity takes many years. This government is behind the purchase of necessary materials such as maritime patrol aircraft, new air protection for the Army and sensors for airspace surveillance. The government has also restored the garrison in Porsangs, strengthened the border guard and restored Finnmark national defence. It's done very well, but a lot remains. New tanks, helicopters and long-range air protection systems are high on the wish list. I hope the responsible have learned from the errors that were made in purchasing the NH90 helicopters, and I hope that the lessons from the purchase of the new field artillery will be taken into account. It is good to see purchases that deliver in a timely manner, at the agreed price and with agreed quality. Helicopters and the tanks to be purchased should be a shelf product. What works elsewhere also works in Norway. We are many who are impatient to re-establish a defense that in size and capacity is timeless. Sometimes we have to accept that things take time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3242	We now see the results of a government that has had the defence sector that wins in each state budget since it joined. We started by rebuilding the ground wall, resuming maintenance, filling in spare parts and increasing activity. We continued to strengthen manning, further increase activity and make large investments. Now the defense practises and trains more than for a long time, and I am especially happy to see the activity that now seems so incredibly good in both the city and the city by the fact that the Home Protection has received a great boost, both in practice and activity, and also in material. From my side of the country, I now see the modernisation and investments made in the Defence, in close proximity. The acquisition of three new coastguard ships by the marine defense is under construction at Vard in Romesdal. Maritim Partner in Ålesund just signed a contract with the Maritime Defence Agency to deliver seven new vessels of the type Sea Bear to the Internal Coast Guard within the summer of next year. HV-11 just received new field wagons for use in their daily service and practice. And there are still great opportunities in the Defence Business Investment Plan, both in More and Romesdal and elsewhere in the country, for contracts and employment. This is important to keep the wheels running now that the Norwegian economy is in crisis, but it is also important for a strong Norwegian defence industry. We are facing the adoption of this long-term plan with a period of historical strengthening of defence, considering both personnel and material. It's added to a significant growth in the size and structure of the defense, and I'm glad that this finds a broad majority here in the hall. Security for society and the country is not just provided by the Defense. The whole nation is on the verge of a crisis or a war. That's why I think it was a very good step by the government to see the social security message and the long-term plan in the context. In the case of civil and military preparedness, inextricably linked. And now we are going to have to put on the agenda how best this connection is going to be. It takes a long time to reverse a development where the defense has been down priorities for many years. Stone must be built on stone over a long period of time. That's exactly what this government has done. Now we see the results that the defense has been committed to the last eight years, and today we're adopting a powerful plan for where we're going to get the next eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3255	The lot of the centre makes a large number of the difference in the use of the words ‘acquisition’ and ‘purchase’. Acquisition without purchase is theft, and we're not going to steal new helicopters. It's simply a parody of the Center Party that they operate this way. An LTP that ensures consistency between structure, content and funding arises at the moment of an agreement between government parties and opposition. It is the guarantee that such a plan will be passed on, regardless of who is in government. The centre part did not cross two sticks to reach such an agreement. The central party was the driving force in these negotiations. Here, long-range air protection is added, which costs $20 billion. kr only at purchase prices. The operating costs are added. Then you falsify about a Brigade South. So it's going to cost us $12. kr in acquisition costs and material costs, and then operating costs are added. There is no link between the proposed additional content of the LTP by the Centre Party and their ability to provide credible funding. And then you allow yourself to say both in the form of an observation and here in the hall that the Army is weak. Has the army been given a new artillery and anti-aircraft, the restoration of Finnmark's land defence, as well as the garrison in Porsanger, the arrival of new trucks, new rescue tanks and new engineering tanks? It has been the development of the army in the last four years, while strengthening the other sectors of defence. Then I have to say that I almost got freezes on my back when I heard the representative of Moxnes’ posts, where he claimed that this long-term plan will put the nation's security into play. NATO membership has ensured our security in the last 75 years. It is Red's policy that will put our nation's security into play. So F-35, which he criticised, is the main battle system in the Defense, which had broad military affiliation when we acquired it. I would like to say to the SV: SV is the Janus face of defence and security policy. So here you're going to bet on the defense, you're going to add more. What you put in is cut off on other parts of the defense sector. I just allow myself completely to quote what is in the SV's defence policy programme: ‘Norway defence expenditure per capita is already second largest in NATO. SV will reduce the total appropriations for defence to release funds that can be used for other good public purposes.’ This is the phase of SV's defence policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3273	I will first be allowed to say that I am pleased that the representative Elvenes is reading the SV's program carefully. He's just going to keep doing that! I note that the Right and the Government view this as a joyous day. Maybe it's the most relief. It would have been very embarrassing if we had to send back the long-term plan for the second time. But even if the plan is in the hall today, that doesn't mean it's a good plan. Maritime defence is still a big question mark. The same applies to the costs of F-35 and the additional costs of the base solution. The efficiency cuts proposed by the government are still totally unrealistic. It's becoming a weak plan, and it's becoming an unrealistic plan. The most daunting thing is maybe evens. It seems to be a taboo for the vast majority of parties in this room, but I would ask the representatives to take an extra look at the proposals for Evens that are on the table. They are asking for more information for Stortinget and specific plans. Actually, the majority shouldn't be so afraid of that. If a person has longer delays, we risk that the capacity for marine surveillance will be greatly weakened for a time of increasing tension. The majority in this Chamber must soon begin to take over. Many of the proposals that are on the table today about Evenes are about providing better information to the Stortinget. If the majority are so sure that the decision they made in 2016 was the right one, they should not be so afraid of getting more information. They all owe it to us, and they owe it to the Andeya community in particular. The government is very eager to invest, or at least to plan investments in time. But all of this, they've forgotten the most important investment of all, people. One of the major weaknesses of the plan is that it does not involve an increase in staff. We're getting a few more people in the next year, but the necessary escalation is missing. That's too bad. There's little use in material investments when we don't have people to man them. Therefore, SV has ordered 1 100 more people to the Defense by 2024. Then we would have been able to take seriously the manning challenges that the Defense is facing. SV requires facts on the table about Drevjamoen. The government has never seriously assessed Drevjamoen, and has only presented some loose claims and misleading cost estimates as to why they do not want the recruiting school there. The fact that the Drivejamo is a ‘supplement’, as the majority now say, can in practice mean anything. SV has arranged for the Stortinget to assess the recruitment school at Drevjamoen well and thoroughly. That's how the elected representatives can actually make an informed decision, and so we can ensure preparedness and security in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3298	The centre party has been trying for four years to find answers to questions about the establishment of the new monitoring base at Evenes. We have also tried to find answers to different questions in different areas of defence in our work on the long-term plan. Common for the answer we get is that they're round, they're little informative, and sometimes they don't answer the questions. It's critical. The Ministry of Defence has a way to get more open, not least to Stortinget. Getting serious answers to questions, either the answer can be given in open or closed forums, shows respect for the Storting's work. Evens will be a good QRA base for F-35, but also by laying the base for the new P-8 surveillance planes to Evenes, creating a space problem, and there are many uncertain elements associated with the storage and reinforcement of ammunition, how to keep the runway operational all winter, terminal buildings that are not finally approved due to turbulence, etc. These questions may also have a negative cost side. Due to delays, the monitoring base of Evenes will not be ready to phase in the P-8 aircraft when they arrive in Norway. The centre party took the initiative to obtain the transparency of decisions relating to each will phase in aeroplanes. For two weeks we were kept with good talk and promise of transparency, before we suddenly received a message from the Council of State that it was not going to happen. A debt then that it was internal notes, but what trust does it have when the Ministry of Defence and Defence had to use two weeks and so it looked at finding out that there were internal notes that couldn't be read by depositors? My question to the Council of State is: was the contents of the so hugely secret notes that the P8 fly was to be phased into Gardermoen in whole or in part? So to the representative of the Rivers, who is raising the vote: it's probably something that says that when you don't have good arguments, you should raise the vote. It might have been useful, I think, if one of these speakers had said a little bit about the time a real speed of negotiations between those parties. What time did they arrive, the various proposals for decisions? Was it before the Center Party submitted its proposals, or was it afterwards? I think that might be useful. Since the representative Tybring-Gjedde said that a proposal they made, came in the last second, well maybe I'll also say, that we put in the last second without having any decision proposals on the table. It is not worse that I say it about our proposal than that it is said from Tybring-Gjedde. I believe that the representative of Per-Willy Amundsen should ask his party members in the committee what the process of the committee was like before he is released to the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3313	We have a development in crisis and war that must be described as a paradigm shift. In the past, there was a clear distinction between peace and war, so that for example. the responsibilities of the police and the defence were more or less clearly defined and separated. It's not like that anymore. Today, what is referred to as hybrid warfare is practiced. The term is not clearly defined, but hybrid warfare is characterized by, among other things, the attacks are carried out by non-uniform personnel using non-conventional weapons. Examples include attacks on infrastructure such as IT, banking, road systems, radio signals, power industry, etc. Conflict and war are therefore no longer characterised by pure military power. One challenge in hybrid warfare is that it is often not initially known whether it is an accident, for example, or whether it is the admission to war and conflict. What threats that threaten Norway at all times are dynamic. The most recent is the threat of terrorism, the threat of digital infrastructure and conflicts of interest in the fishing zone. The fact that there may not be a sharp distinction between peace and war raises the question of responsibility and roles. That is why a joint counter-terrorist centre has now been set up, where the Police Security Service, the National Security Authority and the Defence Intelligence Service sit together. In addition, we have recently opened a cybersecurity centre, where civil, military, public and private are gathered for a common purpose for our digital security. When the government presented the long-term plan, it did so at the same time as the social security communication from the Ministry of Justice, so that this could be seen in the context. The long-term plan now strengthens the work of hybrid warfare, and in addition, ten specialist positions are now earmarked for cyberdefence. Then we also have to remember everything that has been done on the rule page lately, which strengthens the work of hybrid warfare. We've got a new security law, with object security regulations, and a new law on intelligence now this summer. We have also received a new aid directive. I am pleased that the long-term plan has now come into port in a good way, so that it can be worked with great power to secure Norway in the paradigm shift facing our country and the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3327	For the Workers' Party, it was important to improve the defence plan – in order to strengthen the defence capability, in order to strengthen the defense's efforts in the northern regions, in order to secure more money for the Defence already in 2021, in order to get helicopters at Bardufoss. It does not help the cleaners in the Defense, the Army in the Inner Troms or the personnel situation that you just mean something, you have to have an impact. That's why the Workers' Party is also talking to other parties, and now it's the majority that there should be helicopter dedicated to the Army on Bardufoss. It was one of the issues that was absolutely crucial for the Workers' Party. The working party is pleased that there is a majority for helicopters on Bardufoss. It has been an important matter for us in Troms. The army needs dedicated helicopter support, and the helicopters have also been very important for civil protection in North Norway. But we've seen Right Resistance and Training of Army Helicopters in the North before. That's why there's only one completely certain guarantee that the helicopters will be put in place, and that's a new government from next year. When the Central Party believes that one of two almost equivalent proposals on helicopters is empty promises, while the other of almost completely similar proposals on helicopters is good, it seems to me above all that it is bad for the Central Party that the Workers' Party has got a majority for helicopters on Bardufoss. But for the Workers' Party, the matter is simple. It is cleanest and most honest to vote for what we are for, and against what we are against – not conduct political theaters. I now see that the representative Borch has signed up for me, and then there is another thing in the Central Party's defence policy that I would like an answer to here in the Chamber today. That's why it's okay to continue privatising tasks in the Defence. The Right-wing Government and the Advance Party continue the competitive outsourcing and privatisation of the tasks in the Defence, despite the fact that it is not cheaper, not better, and despite the fact that it has affected employees and the preparedness of a pandemic. That's why the Working Party will put its foot down for this. Once we've seen the consequences – we've heard employees tell us, read the concerns of employee organisations – also about the safety of the facilities, I don't understand how the Center Party can vote against stopping this privatisation. But there's still time. It is possible to vote in favour of the proposal behind the Workers' Party and SV, and there would have been an advantage for all employees in the Defence if the Centre Party could clarify in addition to the other parties if they would now support that proposal. The defence does not need any more privatisation and outsourcing, and the Labour Party in the Government is to be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3342	In today's debate, the government, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party have almost cheered that they have agreed to secure the Army's new helicopters stationed at Bardufoss. But if we're going to take a deep dive into the proposals these parties have agreed on, there's no proposal that gives the government the order or – the most important of all – the money to secure the Army helicopters over the next four years. Then you can ask yourself again whether some party has not learned from past mistakes, because the Army, North Norway and Bardufoss are currently stripped for helicopters, the consensus is precisely these parties negotiated in the previous long-term plan. We remember all the debate four years ago, when just these parties drummed through the fact that all the Bell helicopters were to be moved from Bardufoss to Rygge. The fact that the government, the Labour Party and the Advance Party are now boasting that the Army and Bardufoss receive helicopters from 2024 is a vague proposal with great scope for interpretation. And there's no money in the pot. That is, there is no suggestion from these parties to secure helicopters for the Army at Bardufoss in the next four years. This was one of the reasons why the Senter party left the negotiations on the long-term plan. Our starting point was that we wanted a concrete proposal that obliges the government to buy new helicopters dedicated to the Army, while buying new helicopters for the special forces from 2024, and that these of course should be stationed on Bardufoss in a separate squadron and with its own management. If the Progress Party and the Workers' Party are so concerned that the Army will have dedicated helicopters in 2024, it is strange that they cannot support the Centre Party's clear proposals, which also provide funding, especially given that the Centre Party, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party actually have a majority in this Chamber. It's very strange and disappointing to me that these parties have such low ambitions for investing in helicopters for the Army. Now we're left with a long-term plan without another penny, a long-term plan with no major ambitions. Once again, we are left with a vague proposal on helicopters for the Army that does not oblige the government to anything. It is regrettable that the Labour Party and the Advance Party will not be included in the clear proposal of the Centre Party, and I note that they have confidence that the government will fix this with a vague wording that does not oblige anything. If there's something we've learned these four years, it's that this government has been working against the environment on Bardufoss and not showing any willingness or eagerness to secure the Army dedicated helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3353	I want to start by thanking you for having managed to land a good and broad consensus for the establishment of a separate helicopter quadron for the Army at Bardufoss. It's a great victory for the many of us who have stood for just such a solution. The acquisition project is now under way, and the Bell machines will be gradually replaced when the first helicopters to the Army come from 2024. That means that the Army will have its helicopter capacity throughout the entire period while the new ones will provide a significant upgrade from the old Bell 412 in terms of both capacity, reach and speed. So we have a lot to enjoy, along with the other big investments that will benefit the Army, the Inner Troms and the Defence in the north. There is now the purchase of new tanks, which will give a double in number, as well as a mechanization of the 2nd battalion on Skold, fighting air protection and much more. So we've got a good long-term plan for the defense. Already the footprint is large in Inner Troms from our allied forces, who with their many thousand soldiers each year have their work after the last years' bets. Fighting air protection will further involve 200 more in the Army, and investment in infrastructure, construction and materials will have major local repercussions, while strengthening Norway’s defence capabilities. In addition, the phase-in of new F-35, new submarines, new P-8 surveillance aircraft, new coastguard ships, new NH90 helicopters and much more. The main point is clear: Norway’s defences are being built strongly in the north, while more practice is being done, more sailed and invested in increased fighting power. I read that the Center Party, which signed out of the negotiations on Stortinget, is now on the sideline and is disappointed that the new LTP has been presented and lacks credibility for funding. I think that is mildly eye-catching statements when the party will establish Brigade South and buy long-range air protection for costs during the planning period of up to 40 billion. Extra kroner. They're not going to increase, we saw from the budget today that they're going to be cut. And cutting into welfare services they're not going to do. No, on the contrary – here you have to reverse reforms, cost what it will cost. Although the story from the red-green period is now far behind, it is good to remember that there was little commitment to the Defense with the Center Party in government. In summary, the Center Party is the one that is currently having challenges to show credibility in how to finance its promises and its long-term plan. The right, along with the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party, are going to deliver on this agreement, but the question is just as much how the budgets on the left are going to look out for defence when the parties that are going to cooperate crack in every direction. Elections should note that they are on their way into election year 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3370	When the Center Party has so much else to enjoy these days, I am amazed that they are choosing such an oxygen tone in this debate here today. They complain that they have not been in the heat, but to be in the heat you have to look for it yourself. A bit of a mistake it has been said that the Senter party would discuss politics, so they broke the negotiations. Now it was not negotiations in the real sense. It was a normal committee work, informal group work, to see where the parties were, so we could make an overall position that the Storting could find reasonable, and that it could be governed by. That is the product we have today, with which I also believe the defence sector is very satisfied, because the majority is broad, it is robust, it is consistent. We experienced that those who say they want to discuss politics addressed the members of the Committee through Dagsrevyen. Then it became a little difficult to get to a dynamics, so then we got others who were back, doing that job. I also think that the representative Henriksen from the Workers' Party, who has otherwise contributed positively, was a little interested in the fact that the best guarantee to have this implemented was a different government. I'm not so sure. Firstly, this broad majority with very specific guiding decisions is not to misunderstand any government. But any government other than the one we now have will then consist – as far as I understand the newspapers – of an anti-NATO party, SV, inside the government offices, and possibly that government will also have to seek support from another extreme anti-NATO party, which is the only one in our diverse party flora that has expressed support for Putin's occupation of Crimea. I will end with a little friendly reminder to my good colleague Mr Tybring-Gjedde on this matter with the European Defence Fund. I have had the same positive attitude towards the defence fund and was further strengthened in this through the consultation round where the advice was very clear from the defence industry and from the Landsorganisation in Norway and the NHO, with its specialized companies who are aware of what opportunities we would have missed if we were not there. I would like to end by saying that what has now happened in the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia should probably get the military technicians to study it more closely, because there is a great development of weapon technology, where autonomous drones, kamikaze technology, are used. The same thing also in the border conflict in India, where they've had the nearest lavado that's put soldiers out of play without killing them. There's a lot going on, and Norway has to be on the technological front line.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3381	We are witnessing a very special debate today that is partly entertaining, partly very little informative and partly totally unnecessary. The centre party helps to create doubts about what a clear majority on the Storing is behind, minus the Center Party, and that's because there's actually one word in difference. As I have said before, the majority use the word ‘acquisition’, the centre party is engaged in using the word ‘buy’. Otherwise, it's almost exactly the same proposal. But the Central Party claims that the proposal that gets the majority is not to believe, because it is not being implemented. Then you refer to economics. Very familiar we don't have long-term planning in Stortinget when it comes to economics. The budgets shall be adopted annually. If we are to believe in the self-security of the Central Party, it must be because any future Vedum regime will not finance the decision taken by the Stortinget. Then it is they themselves who do not deliver on what the Storting is of today. That's why this seems to be a very hopeless debate, because you're only concerned about one thing, and it's that you didn't even participate in the negotiations that got the helicopter quadron to Bardufoss, which made sure to put a sentence for what I think was a hopeless decision that was taken in 2016. There was an error that was made. The Bell helicopters should never have been moved. I've been ready for that, and my party doesn't think it was a good solution at the time. But we're not concerned about the past. Now it's about solving the challenges we're facing in the future. It will be a clear decision, Bardufoss will have a quadron, and we also expect the government to come up with a government budget that will finance the Stortinge's decision – if it's not the case that the red-greens will jump from their promises, if it becomes a red-green government. Is that what we know, is that it's under red-green governments the defense has been built to a very large extent. It was Gro Harlem Brundtland who started the liquidation of Norwegian defence. It was the Stoltenberg government which, in 2005–2013, provided for even more cutbacks in the Norwegian defence budget – a trend that has otherwise been reversed. I just want to say one key to the representatives here from Troms, who are taking part in the debate today: Olavsvern. It was closed with the Center Party in government. There is the credibility of the Centre Party in Norwegian defence policy. They can mean and say what they want when they're in opposition, but they never deliver in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3394	The centre party is bound by national defence capabilities. That's an important priority. It provides an increased room for action for political leadership, but it also helps to keep the tension level down. In order to solve these challenges throughout the conflict spectrum, we depend on a balance between air, sea, land and cyberpower. That is what we are concerned about in this plan, that the balance must be better seen in the future as well. Mobile land forces must consist of a modern brigade of national NATO preparedness and, not least, with their presence in North Norway, must refuse unauthorised access to Norwegian territory. The Brigade is also central to the implementation of training and education, as well as to the instruction of teachers to practice in a larger format. The brigade school was called before, and I think it's a good name even today. It is very central to the concept of receiving and interacting with other defence sectors and allied forces and must be very well equipped to operate under demanding Norwegian conditions. In addition, it will be able to provide elements for international operations. It's important for us in the Center Party to start building a cadre-based Brigade South. I would like to stress that Brigade Sør should not be a brigade with the same ambition as Brigade Nord, but a mobilization-based brigade that meets a critical need, with the reception and securing of allied reinforcements in South Norway. It shall re-use material and be part of and build up its organisation with key service commands that are not currently held by the war organisation. The establishment of Brigade South implies an ambition for a significant increase in the army's fighting power and will be a significant strengthening both north and south of the country. Brigade South should be a light brigade, made up of reservists and guardians. The Brigade must have an ambition to support the reception of allies, to strengthen the defence of the north and to support society in other natural and man-made disasters. Brigade South should be set up with three motorized infantry battalions, I mean. One battalion could be His Majesty the King's Guard, which we already have today. A Brigade Sør will provide the Army with increased stamina and flexibility with the possibility of an adjusted setup. When the head of defense says he wants to have the most combative power for the money, and uses the term ‘train as you fight’, it will be very important and not least motivating and resource-saving to use ever-serving commands within the framework of Brigade South. This will help to increase the operational focus and promote an increased understanding of the core tasks of the organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3405	I start this article by focusing on something our new head of defense, Eirik Kristoffersen, has pointed out on several occasions: Norway has a story where we are surprised. We were when the Germans arrived in 1940. That's what happened when the terror hit us in 2011. And we were definitely that by the spring of 2020, when together with the rest of the world, we were hit by a global pandemic. When a crisis first occurs, it is of course absolutely essential that we have a good preparedness throughout Norway, precisely because we often do not know where, when or how a crisis will occur. That is why, in the Central Party, we want to ensure a strong protection of homes with a presence throughout the country through a pledge for Homeland Protection. Unfortunately, the government has in its time reduced Homeland by 5,000 soldiers — from 45,000 soldiers to 40,000 soldiers. They have also put down the Sjöheimewertel, and the government has not been able to fill the reduced area structure either. Today it's just about. 36,000 soldiers in Homeland, and that's a development that we in the Center Party really don't support, and that we want to turn around. In this setting, the centre party is therefore promoting three proposals to strengthen Home Affairs. Surprisingly, we stand alone politically in wanting to fill up the strength structure and increase the number of soldiers, and we stand alone in wanting Home Security to get more resources for training and practice. It's a shame, because these are measures that have little cost in terms of defence, but that really make a big difference in local preparedness. In view of the situation we are in, and the importance of strengthened preparedness in the time to come, despite the strange resistance of all the other parties to this cheap but important field of action, I would urge the other parties to still vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party to strengthen Home Affairs. Preparedness throughout the country will be absolutely central on that day, but hopefully not, something serious happens, and I don't understand that other parties have the same focus as us in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3416	Working for a society where the people of the country actually govern the country is one of the pillars of the Central Party's policy. A strong Norwegian government requires a well-functioning and sovereign nation state. It is not possible to guarantee the sovereigns of Norwegian citizens the right to rule the country without our ability to defend ourselves. That is why we must have a strong Norwegian defence. It is important to further develop and modernise the total defence. The overall defence is based on mutual support and cooperation between defence and civil society in the prevention, preparedness planning, crisis management and impact management throughout the crisis spectrum, from peace to war. Good overall preparedness for the Norwegian community is based on a decentralised housing pattern, good food preparedness, secure energy supply, a credible defence threshold and effective preparedness for environmental crises and natural disasters. A low self-sufficiency of food makes us very vulnerable if we are to be hit by serious crises. Few countries are as vulnerable to supply as Norway, whether physically blocked or incapacitated on the world market. By 2020, the covid-19 pandemic made visible how vulnerable we were when it came to emergency storage. Payment ability was far from a guarantee of access to medicine and infective equipment. The same would be true if we had a food crisis. We never know with certainty what the next crisis will mean, but as elected representatives, we have a responsibility to build a good preparedness. The withdrawal of Norway from the storage of food grain in 1995 and the closure of emergency stocks for cereal seed in 2002 have dramatically reduced Norway’s food safety. Norway, as a nation, must be able to ensure adequate access to food for its citizens at all times. Therefore, the Centre Party has proposed the restoration of national cereal stocks, which ensure food security throughout the country over a longer period. I would encourage all the parties in this Chamber to vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3429	Defence policy is important. It concerns us all, and it is about fundamental security in society. Defence policy is a central concern of the Stortinget. In contrast to foreign and security policy, defence policy is not the prerogative of the government. Defence policy has always been widely discussed in Stortinget. It is seaworthy whether there will be agreement between several parties on a long-term plan, and it is probably right that the Right Party and the Labour Party have had a tradition of often agreeing on the lines in the long-term defence plan, but there have also been considerable disagreements in defence policy over the last decades. And that's not unnatural. We're different parties with different priorities. So this urge to almost push everyone into the fold – and with the wording that the representatives of Rivers and Amundsen have, one must almost threaten us all into the fold – is quite strange, really, and also a little unforeseeable. Many of the posts that have been held here today by the Right and the Advance Party have been almost more about the Center Party than about defence policy. It's flattering, but it's now a defense debate we're in the middle of. For us, this is more than agreeing on a common minimum multiple, as the representative Amundsen referred to it as before today. We do not complain about not being inside the so-called heat. We have made a choice to stand up for our own policies. It's a little strange that it has to be so provocative, and that it produces the kind of force expression that we've heard from several representatives from the Right and the Advance Party. The Council of State allowed itself to chat with the representative of Navarsete and that in her line she compared our efforts and resource use in defence with Sweden and Finland. It is obvious that the Council of State considered that the Central Party is only allowed to compare with things that happen in Norway, not things that happen outside Norway. So let me get him on the word: the right will spend far more money the next decade building a government quarter in Oslo center than they will spend on the Norwegian defense. At least it's a real national comparison. Other speakers from the Central Party have explained the different aspects of defence policy. Let me just mention one thing that's important: it's the unwillingness we've met to discuss the relationship between Andøya and Evenes. We opposed the closure of Andøya Air Station. We believe that Evenes is developing to be a cost closure. We do not want any new surveillance aircraft to be maintained on the Gardermoen. It has not been possible at all to discuss these questions with the other parties on Stortinget. It's said to be one of the many things that's done that the Center Party is not involved in any consensus here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3444	It has often been said about the Norwegian foreign and defence debate that what separates this debate from all other policy areas is that we do not deliberately misunderstand each other. I don't think, after today, that I have my words left. When I hear Right representatives say that everything was so terrible before, but that it has now become almost a whole new spring for the Norwegian defense, I come to book and film My life as a dog – «you have to compare». There have been many European countries that have been committed to defence in recent years. Compared to the other NATO countries, we were in eighth place in 2013, and now we are in tenth place in terms of defence appropriations. The main reason for this increase is investment in F-35, for which there was a unanimous decision on this issue at Stortinget. The central party's Marit Arnstad says she's a little surprised that the centre party is so much mentioned. It may have a connection with the strong use of words that has been promoted in the media, with words such as ‘bluff’. I am a little uncertain whether it is that in other matters too, the Centre Party has not intended to participate in committee proceedings, but only to vote in favour of proposals which they themselves have promoted. Then it's a little difficult to do that kind of cooperation. I have full respect for the fact that the Central Party is promoting its own proposals. We do, too, but here it is not about participating in committee proceedings and not voting in favour of a proposal, not because you can prove in substance or in words what is wrong with the proposal, but because you do not trust those who are going to follow it up. It has quite a big impact on the rest of Storting's work if it's to be organized that way. Then I also have to say that it is wrong, what the representative Borch says is that there is no money to fund the helicopters. The observations state that the plan must be adjusted accordingly. There are also a number of accusations, as it's clear that I'm reacting to, that we've moved all the Bell helicopters from Bardufoss. Now we get a decision to buy new helicopters for the Army. So it remains to see how this is being followed up. We're going to get back to that on Stortinget. But it is obvious that that kind of use of words creates a need to be able to answer. I also believe that this with personnel is important. After all, we have not fully realised what we mean there – we want to increase the defence personnel more in the next period – but to say that it is wrong to vote for 310 extra next year – well, I know at least a lot of people in the defense who appreciate that progress. It's not as good as we wanted, but politics is for me to get something through, rather than vote against everything and rather than go down with the flag to the top.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3455	Today, the National Air Operation Centre is in Bodø, and it is not surprising that it is from this command post that the Head of Air Defense heads Norwegian air operations in crisis and war, but also in peacetime – and without the physical presence of the Head of Air Defense. The central party shares the point of view of the head of defense that there is a weakness in our preparedness. Indeed, preparedness and understanding of the situation require presence. It is therefore high time you moved the management northwards. The northern regions are Norway's main strategic area of interest. Then it was just to be lacking that the defense was heavy with both material, management and personnel. Norway must have a national defence that will enable it to tackle a wide range of threats and to tackle military crises until we get allied support from NATO. Norway’s ability to have sufficient situational understanding and understanding of our domain depends on good monitoring, especially on our vast seas. I would like to point out that the assumptions made by the Right, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party to move the maritime surveillance planes from Andøya to Evenes have changed significantly since the decision was taken in 2016. The air protection drug is completely torpedoed. It's completely impossible for people who have an in-depth knowledge of the movement of the surveillance planes from Andøya, to understand that no one else sees this. In the discussions on the long-term plan, the Senter Party called for the situation to be met, inter alia. by adding more soldiers than the government provided, as well as investments in tanks and maritime defence for the first four years. We've planned for helicopters for the Army at Bardufoss, for a greater home guard and to keep the surveillance planes at Andøya Air Station. We have also added money to our alternative state budget. The personnel situation is critical. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party have correctly added an increase of 310 soldiers in the first two years of the plan, but it helps very little when the same parties decrease by 310 again the next two years, so that one in 2024 comes out with the same number of soldiers as the government originally proposed. The head of defense has already been out there and said that today's crew is above the current long-term plan, because the defense has moved personnel within the freedom they have. He mentions in particular the need to strengthen Air Force deliveries on Andy Island as a cause. It actually reveals the need for the proposal of the Central Party for a comprehensive plan and an information to the Stortinget on Andeya. As usual, the government is denying conversion costs, as it may look. That being said, the Center Party believes that not to keep the surveillance planes on Andeya is a historical fallacy of the majority that weakens our defense. So the whole thing we couldn't be in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3471	The representative of Harek Riveres has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3476	Many suggest that the Centre Party is unable to rejoice over neither helicopters on Bardufoss nor other good measures in the long-term plan. The Party's surrender policy amounts to at least 40 million. kr is undressed in the hall today. Then it is directly sought when the representative Arnstad pulls in the government quarter, as if the history here has completely gone into the memory book. It is the requirement of the Security Act that this office complex receives the price it receives. You just don't have time to ignore it. If you ignore that, the price per square metre of office space planned here is not higher than other office spaces in this area that there is reason to compare.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3483	For me, which is of those who have worked for a long time to be helicopters on Bardufoss, it is really quite happy today to see the large majority who want there to be helicopters on Bardufoss, and that new helicopters from 2024 are to be purchased. The majority consists of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The final thing is that the Center Party felt that they had to promote their own, almost identical, proposals in the matter. But it's a large majority, which I'm very happy about. If the proposal made by the majority of this majority is as vague as the Central Party says, I find it a little difficult to understand why the Central Party is promoting almost exactly the same proposal, word by word. I miss a good explanation as to what the difference in content is. I want to repeat what I said instead: we know what the Right Party and the Advance Party have previously thought about helicopters. That's why the only sure guarantee that there will be helicopters on Bardufoss is that it will be a new government. For its own part, the Workers' Party has self-confidence to know that, with a new government, there will be helicopters at Bardufoss – that decision will be followed up. When the Center Party says there's not a penny for helicopters in the setting, that's not true. It is clear from the wording that the framework should be adjusted in line with the decisions. I would like to ask the Centre Party to stop talking falsely about the Workers' Party in that matter. That's right, what the Central Party has also said, that you could have made more majority in other issues in the vote, a majority of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the SV and the Center Party, but it was difficult when the Senter Party left the room, because then suddenly it was a majority that could not be used. Finally, I still miss answers from the parties who vote against stop in the privatisation and outsourcing of the defence, and an explanation of why they do so, where the Right and the Progress Party and the Centre are united in rejecting the Workers' Party's proposal. I'm sorry about that. We've seen what it's done, for example. for the cleaners, not least in Inner Troms, that they have privatised the establishment there. We see that no good estimate of the cost savings has been made. We have received warnings from the employee organisations, and we also now see, in a pandemic situation, what it has done in terms of safety in the facilities. So before the vote, I'd like to ask one party I believe in in this context, the Center Party, to think about one more time, listen and then turn around in terms of the privatisation decision they don't want to participate in today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3498	I notice that very many are busy talking about consensus. Government Parties are committed to stress that there is broad consensus, and the Centre Party is committed to stress that there is no consensus, that the Centre Party is outside the broad consensus. The truth is that there is no broad consensus in this setting. On the contrary, there is an alternating majority and a good deal of disagreement about important things. We must stop being afraid of that in the debate on defence and security policy. As with most other political issues, on the contrary, a little more lively debate and a little more varied majority may lead to some sharp thinking coming upon us. It is not the stupidest thing that can happen, that you stop thinking that it is always an objective that everyone should agree on defence policy. On the other hand, I think it might be problematic that what creates the most temperature in this debate on the long-term plan is an intrusion in the Nordic debate by Sandra Borch, while the Stortinget should perhaps use more force to discuss some of the major challenges that are not the topic because there is too much water in the discussion about Norwegian security policy: about our dependence on a United States that is politically and militarily expected to look in a different direction in the years and decades to come, about the internal tensions in NATO, and not least about this large uncovered flight bill that the Defense is most likely to pay for, but that no one other than the SV wants to talk about. Now it's so late in the debate that I don't have any great hopes that this will happen to a greater extent in this round either, so let me just finish correcting the representative of the Rivers. It's like, of course, we're all looking to score points against our political opponents, but you don't have to get so excited about the ministry that you say things that aren't true. The Rivers with great zeal quoted that should as well be from SV's program, instead, are not from the program that SV's Storingsgruppe is currently working on. Nor is it from the majority vote to the new programme to SV. It's a minority division. Of course, we should have that debate in our party, but the representative must not publish it in order to be anything but that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3507	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3512	The representative Henriksen wonders that the Central Party is making the same proposal, as he said, as the plural. It's enough to turn things upside down. When so much attention is focused on this, I think it's right for me to say what it really is. The Central Party submitted all its proposals within the time limit for new policies to the Committee. We have temptations that are set up. We had a deadline for new policies, and then we put in all our proposals. Then the other parties spent a long time reaching their agreement. I could have come up with a few quotes that underlined it, I'll leave it alone, but I think that the Center Party made its clear proposals, was the best driver for us to get these decisions out. Otherwise it could be that the Center Party started a few meters before – I'm not going to quote anymore, I'm sorry. It's a little strange that a user took so much time that the Center Party decided to leave what was not even a negotiation, it was said today. [[The President clubs.]] So we were in eight meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3521	Speaking of time, it's unfortunately out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3526	Time has passed, but I think we have everything on the clean, and we stand for what we stand for. We're going to vote for what we're in favour of when this is going to be voted over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3531	I will open the door to give honor to the committee chairman and the case rapporteur for the work that has been done. I should have actually done that in my opening post. This debate just tells me that there is even greater reason to give a homage to good political craftsmanship, good committee work. In fact, the Storting has agreed both on the long lines and on the major projects in terms of the development of the Defence. In many ways, a lot of things are wanted here. You're busy with people. Yes, new military system, education reform is about how we develop people in the Defense. The organizations say that people are exhausted, they're dissatisfied, they're too few. The employee surveys in Defense tell us that people are doing work and are enjoying their lives at work. Recruitment to a position in the Defence Department tells us that this is an attractive job. So it's a place where the North will contribute and where meaningful tasks are found. So it's like we're adjusting, and we're going to have to go up in terms of personnel. For us, it has been important to do it in a balance sheet for EBA, in a balance sheet about how many we are able to train, and in a balance sheet economically. Overall, we've got assurances that there's a grip that's going to continue in the future, we're going to have a balance between resources, expectations, activity and economics. So there's something I'm going to comment on a little bit. It's claimed that we don't fulfill the promises on Andeya. Well, I am in regular contact with the rapporteur in Andey. I have had contact with the head of Andøya Test Center about the conversion work there. Most things are going well on Andøya, including the conversion work. We have not received any enquiries saying that we are tying the areas needed for the conversion work or for which the business community needs. I have been clear, and we have also been clear in the revised national budget for 2018, that the conversion work on Andøya and in Bodø should have priority. It's a very good dialogue, and I'm well aware that in such a great transformation work as it is in Andeya, we're four years before the change happens, inside the transition organisation and the funding. They get very good time to prepare for the change that comes when we shut down the station. Overall, in conclusion, thank you for a good debate. First of all, thank you to the Committee for a good and thorough work in a field that is very important, a field that, as it has so rightly been said in this debate, is characterized by the fact that now we can't just see the defence as a parallel society, we have to see this in the big context. Our security challenges span the entire spectrum. It is also well taken care of in this part of the long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3544	I take the floor to comment on some comments about the Central Party that have arrived during the last part of the debate. We have different opinions on this matter. I have so much respect for those who chose to agree, but I also hope that a show of respect for those who choose not to join a settlement – I don't know if it's called a settlement, or if it's called conversations, it's been a little unclear in the course of the debate what it really has been. I believe that if one goes into and discusses what has happened in the committee's work, and if the centre party was present at the meetings or not, one must at least decide. Here the committee leader says that the centre party was not present at the meetings, and it was wrong, but in the inquiries that the party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, made to me, it was wrong that we were sitting in the meetings, because then we had to agree on a settlement. The working party must decide whether it was wrong that we were there or that we were not there. This I had not come to pick up from this pulpit if not the committee chair – unfortunately – invited to it. This is also about different priorities. I understand that the Rivers do not like the comparison with the government quarter. I understand that, but the Council of State wouldn't let us compare it with the defence budgets and efforts of the Scandinavian countries. He asked for a comparison from Norway. I then drew a comparison from Norway, and that is an actual information. The next decade from the Right is spent more on the government quarter than on the Defence. As far as Andøya is concerned, we have had and have a different view on the question of Andøya than the majority in Stortinget has had in recent years. After all, when we went into these conversations, we had a hope for a dialogue about it and a hope for a dialogue also about how the evolution of Evens really is. There we – and we were very disappointed – felt that for several days, weeks in fact, we were kept talking well, but we did not have access to any information or the possibility of a real discussion on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3557	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3563	I take the floor because the Central Party is trying to get a little bit boiled because they've become the topic of today's debate. The reason why the Central Party has become the topic of today's debate is that they make false claims out there. The central party is really completely irrelevant in the debate we have here today, because they have chosen to stand on the outside, but what is unacceptable is that the central party is making the rest of the big deal, the decisions that are taken here, like bluffs. And that's something we also see in the Center Party in several other cases, including in the field of justice, where you present political opponents as having hidden an agenda, like actually working for something other than what you say -- as if you were going to define reality differently, and in a way you have the right to do it. That's not good. It contributes to poor political change of words and only to suspicion and mistrust of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3568	It is quite clear to all the parties involved in these negotiations that this is not a package, that this is not a big deal, and I am surprised that Arnstad is asking questions about it. For there is a substantial difference between a conciliation procedure and an ordinary committee procedure by the fact that, in an ordinary committee procedure, the variable majority is. And it's pretty clear to experienced big-time politicians to read it out of the setting. There are many times you go from negotiating a settlement or a package, but I have not experienced – although it may have happened before – that you go from committee. I guess it's not that common. I have at least never experienced it, but it is possible I do not have full information about how the Storting has operated throughout its history. What I'm responding to is that the Center Party went out on the grounds that there was an agreement between the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party – an agreement that did not materialize. Because in many of the decisions where we went with the Progress Party, SV was also involved. And when we look at the strength structure, the Workers' Party did not vote for this. It was the Progress Party for which a majority was formed. I am pleased with the progress we have made, but I am responding to the characteristics of the other parties. I must admit that I believe the proposals that the Central Party is making about helicopters are good. I wish we had written together. It is my nature as a big-time politician that where there is a majority, we have to make as similar formulations as possible, because then we are making stronger. But I have full respect for the fact that the Central Party is choosing a different direction, that they are promoting their own proposals. I have no reason to doubt why they do it. But sometimes it was hard to know completely when the Senter Party was involved in negotiations, or not. But we've had a rough discussion now. We have had a review of the entire long-term plan with a changing majority. We've done a plan that was a little vague, something better, and all in all, I'm glad we sent back the plan we got in ours. Then we got concrete promises on the table about increased staffing in 2021, and that has done something better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3579	This is for the representative Arnstad: we have therefore informed about the state of Evenes, about the process that is taking place, but the Center Party does not believe in the information that is being provided. It's something else. For the documents, the file information, which Arnstad also asks for: it is therefore the case that the Central Party sent a request to the Defence Department for some documents. These are internal documents other than publicity, and the defense replied as they should under the Administrative and Public Law that they could not be obtained. When I heard about it, I said, "Can't you send the request through us, and we'll see what it's on?" It was sent. So these are internal working documents that all governments keep apart from Stortinget. Even when Arnstad was the Council of State, it was practice. Then you'd have to be dissatisfied with it, but I told the committee that I can't take political responsibility for a random document in some working process in the department. It is quite simply that we are trying to deconstruct the working methods we have in the department sector, and I think that is really very worrying. Secondly, when you try to create an impression in addition to the public that we're trying to keep information about such an important project away, I think it's wrong. It's also a work method and a way of communicating that I strongly dislike.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3588	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3593	I am pleased that the representative Arnstad signed up again, because then she also has the chance to respond to why the Central Party will not vote in favour of a clear proposal from the Workers' Party and SV to stop the privatisation in the Defence, which we know has consequences both for security and for employees. Finally, I would just like to say – in view of the claims made, both in the media and, to some extent, here in the Chamber, about the negotiations and the outcome of the committee – that I, as the representative of the Grandfather, have a mandate from the voters in Troms to fight for what is in our programme and what is important to the voters in Troms. If my party and I have the chance to have a majority in the Storting for more employees in the Army, for helicopter, to make a weak defense plan better, yes, we have to. Otherwise, I wouldn't have used my mandate, which we've got from people in Troms, to make everyday life better for people in Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3600	The representative of Marit Arnstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3605	I am a little surprised that the representative Amundsen is a little disappointed that we use the word ‘bløff’. He used the word "Trump" about us in his article. So in terms of strong vocabulary, I think the representative Amundsen has a little bit to learn from, too, I think. But on the other hand, when we end up with different priorities, here we have different opinions, here some people choose to agree, so they choose to agree through conciliation or conversations, and some people choose to have their own suggestions. In any other matter in Stortinget it is not so very strange. It is not so unusual in defence policy either, if you see it historically. That is why, quite simply, the most surprising thing about this debate is the other parties' minds against the Central Party. It's very hard to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3610	With respect to reporting, what's really strange in this debate is that you get accusations from those who choose to stand outside of a settlement, that what you've agreed on is a bluff, while you make suggestions that you can't afford to show off in your alternative budgets. Then you can ask who's bluffing who.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-26.ana.ud190e3615	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
