ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e28	The representative, Mr Liv Signe Navarsete, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e33	On behalf of the representatives of Sandra Borch, Bengt Fasteraune, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, Siv Mossleth and myself, I would like to propose a complete plan for moving the maritime surveillance activity from Andeya to Evenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e38	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e54	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e63	The spread of the coronary virus is now changing to a new phase, and we are in a serious situation in Norway. It's infected between the North, with no known origin. «The disease has already been released in Oslo», says experienced doctors at Ullevål. It's a challenge that will last. It is serious, not unknown from previous epidemics, but far more extensive. We must be clear, not talk up a crisis, but not talk it down. Then we have to be honest. The government must be honest and clear. The Institute of Public Health now says that over two million Nordics will become ill, most with mild symptoms. But people will die as a result of this disease. Enterprises and jobs will be affected, and health professionals will be tested at very large levels. Our solidarity and our humanity will be tested. We have high confidence in each other and in the authorities in Norway. Now we have to use this resource wisely. Let me start by saying that we support those who are now in the demanding first line: health professionals in hospitals and in hospitals, infirmaries and all responsible around the municipalities. I said yesterday that we support actions by the government that can effectively and clearly meet the challenge of the virus. The questions we have to ask the Prime Minister are: does she and the government take action that is proportionate to the serious situation, where several weeks ago the WHO called for what they called drastic action? Are there clear messages to people in all parts of the country about how they should behave? Do municipalities receive advice, finance and instructions to ensure action? Do we have the equipment and the drugs that are needed? And are we, as a nation, equipped to stand in this crisis, which may last a long time? My concern is that the answers to these questions are not a clear yes. I aim here at criticism and questions from health professionals, municipal doctors, permanent practitioners, rapporteurs, professionals and most people. The measures have been too late, sometimes little concrete, and the information has appeared unclear and little coordinated. The Prime Minister has told me that she and the government have the powers that are needed. My first question is therefore: is she sure that the right actions have been taken and that the right messages have been communicated?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e74	It's a serious situation we're facing. It is serious for our health preparedness, and it is serious for the Norwegian economy and for Norwegian jobs. For the government, job number one is to make sure that we have a health care system and a development in the disease image that allows us to handle and help those who are the weakest, those who have the most need, and that we have the capacity and the ability to help and make sure that we have a health care system that can handle this situation. The second job is to ensure that the economic impact on the Norwegian economy is minimised in the long term, and that we can ensure growth and well-being in the years to come. But back to work number one. Do we have powers and ability to do things? Firstly, I think it is very important to stress what the representative Gahr Støre said, namely that we must not exaggerate. Nor must we understate; we must make sure to be exact. Then it's not right to say that the Institute of Public Health has said that over two million people will be infected. They've supplied a scenario with a voltage of 20 to 60 pst. by the population, it is important to remember ‘can’. That's when that number comes, so we have to be careful to be exact in the dissemination of the information given. It's often here it turns out that scenarios are correct or not, but it's important to be exact about these things. What we have done since the discovery of the disease is primarily to give powers to the Institute of Public Health and to the Directorate of Health. All preparedness work was decentralised as early as the end of January to the Directorate for Health, with powers to initiate these activities. We have measures in place to make use of all the rationing mechanisms in the healthcare system in terms of equipment and available capacity for treatment to ensure that this type of action is in a state of emergency. So we're on. With the short time we have here, let me just underline one thing: we have to be aware that we're going to get bigger heights, and that this development is going to give us a top, but we have to make sure to flatten out that top. It will be one of the most important things we do. That's why it's so important that people take on the advice that health authorities give.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e85	The question is whether measures have been taken that are consistent and clear, early enough to prevent this summit from coming. That's what I'm asking. I'm saying that the Public Health Institute suggests that there could be two million. It's a scenario – we don't know, it's in the future. But there is reason to believe that this situation is more serious and more extensive than in the previous epidemics we have had: sars and swine flu. Then the question is, they have delegated powers, and we have good professional authorities. But what we now hear from those who are in the first line, those who are responsible – rapporteurs, infectious doctors, municipal doctors, urban doctors, those in the hospital, health professionals – is that the advice is unclear, they are late, they have prepared for bad, they lack equipment. So the question is, does the government and the Prime Minister need another grip so that these messages can be clear enough, given the opportunity we face with a more massive spread?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e90	Already after the new powers of the Directorate of Health were laid down in January, work was started with Norwegian municipalities in order to prepare themselves. At that time, all the counties had the responsibility to coordinate with the municipalities on what infectious plans they had, and it was revealed that some municipalities did not have infectious plans. Between two and seven in the different counties did not have that, and then work and measures were put in place for the infectious disease plans to stand up in all the counties to contribute to good communication. Then the advice will change as the stages shift. That's why the stricter advice now is when we see an infection that spreads more in the population than it was when you could track where the infection came from. Of course, it also has to do with the consequences for the rest of society when you start this. But as I said, the goal is to even out the top in the future. If we extend the process before we get very many sick people in Norway, it will be easier to have good treatment capacity, and it will also be that better treatment and perhaps vaccine will be available.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e99	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e104	I want to ask the Prime Minister how she has been working on her watch to prepare Norway for this situation, because a pandemic is not a distant opportunity. We had the sars epidemic and the swine flu epidemic. The Prime Minister, on his watch, has had to deal with ebola outbreaks internationally. Pandemic is part of what we're now facing. Emergency elements at the Prime Minister's office were suggested in the beginning. It didn't come. There have been two emergency ministers in this government. Nevertheless, we now feel that there are critical deficiencies in our preparedness when the infection affects Norway. There are no available hospital vacancies in Norway today, they say from the Health Directorate. The OECD recommends 85 pst. coverage so that you have free capacity. Limitation of testing has been confirmed and lack of standby storage of test equipment. Critical shortages of selected medicinal products have been identified and deficiencies have been reported by hospitals for several weeks. This not only affects the capacity to test people, it also affects health professionals who are on duty, including those who have to be called in from the watch. How could we get into such a situation, giving attention to preparedness, epidemics and pandemics internationally and nationally in the years Erna Solberg has been prime minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e113	Just because there has been a lot of focus on it, a new piece of legislation has been dealt with around this in Stortinget last year, with a new framework and new work related to it. Because of this, emergency questions have been worked on, and the county officials have worked explicitly with these questions to the municipalities for the past few weeks. So the challenge is that when you define what the test equipment is, what the systems are, we first have to know what kind of situation we're up in, what kind of virus it is. Therefore, we have provided powers to control all types of equipment that are in Norway today, to control exports, and to monitor stock levels. In addition, we have started work on helping to increase the production of some of the infectious diseases equipment in Norway. Now the Swedish Institute of Public Health is working to test out the various proposals that have come from some of the companies in Norway, and is continuing to work with others to get this in place to make sure that we have capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e118	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e123	Measures need to be improvised and put in place in the light of the type of infection that comes. But after the swine flu, a report was made, a big message was written, several improvement points were set up, learning points. As the Prime Minister says, the Stortinget dealt with changes in the infectious diseases law in the spring of 2019. Several municipalities and infectious physicians identified the need for a national action plan on infectious diseases outside the health institutions, as well as a clearer division of roles between the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute. They are our professional authorities – the government’s professional authorities, but also the local authorities. They asked for this on the basis of experience in developing their own emergency plans. The opposition then proposed this, but the government parties opposed it. Over the past few weeks, we have seen that there have just been challenges with local assessments and with communication between the national and local levels of protection. Does the Prime Minister see a need to improve and make advice to Norwegian municipalities more coherent and direct?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e129	As regards the advice of Norwegian municipalities, they will be both clearer and stronger in line with developments. That is why, at the press conference yesterday – with the Minister of Health, the Institute of Public Health and the Directorate of Health – we clearly said that we are over in a new phase when the infection now appears to spread regardless of the cause. Then there are also clearer and stronger requirements. They've come now, and it's probably going to get more as you see evolution. We have been very clear that we need to be clear, and that it must be possible to implement the advice, but in the phase before you have that kind of dissemination, local conditions will have a very big impact. Of course, if you don't have infected or there are few infected, it will be possible to carry out other activities than if you have a high prevalence of infection. With regard to the question of the role-sharing between the Institute for Public Health and the Directorate for Health, the Stortinget addressed precisely that spring 2019. That's what was the change in the infectious disease law to clarify those questions. Although it may be said that better information should be provided, an action plan of the type proposed by the Workers' Party would not have any significance in today's situation, at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e136	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e141	I totally disagree with that, but it's not a theme right now, it's just to get it mapped. But back to the municipalities: they're the first line defense in the VDU, they're facing a tough challenge, and it's going to get bigger in the weeks to come. We have a fixed medical system that's already extended, there's a lot of shortcomings, and they're going to be under pressure. They lack staff and resources to carry out the detection of infection. And the municipalities are responsible for our older people at the institution, which is the most vulnerable group in this epidemic. Measures cost, and this is a year then 85 pst. the municipalities will have scarcer budgets due to the local economy. The municipalities are still seeking clear advice. I got a message from a rapporteur in a municipality with 1,500 inhabitants in the interior today who are very concerned about the situation: there are different advice on how to act, what kind of action needs to be taken, and what kind of events need to be cancelled. Leadership requires clear answers from the authorities. My question is: From the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister yesterday, action came to the business community, which I will come back to, but what measures are now being put in place to improve the economic and capacity of municipalities to meet the challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e152	It is difficult for me, as Prime Minister, to comment on the views of an unknown rapporteur as to whether the advice is clear or not. There are some parameters that need to be considered locally from the particular situation. Yesterday, however, there was much clearer advice on how to handle events and what events to cancel. It will also become clear in the current phase. But there will be some municipalities that want to be even more stringent, and we see that some municipalities go beyond just following the Public Health Institute's advice, and then there will be some confusion in the neighbouring municipality about what advice should apply. But the Council of the Institute of Public Health has been quite clear in the last few days. We have said that there are three phases in the work we are working on financially. The first thing we're doing right now is taking immediate action not to see companies that should live on in the future go bankrupt. Therefore, there will be some immediate measures coming Friday, with a request for prompt treatment. There will also be money for the health sector to ensure that they can meet current needs. Then we have said that we are going to move forward in two new phases in the evaluations of these measures, and we will of course also assess the local economy and the local situation in the future as part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e159	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e164	I want to take one very precise thing about the measures that are now also taking the economy, and that is about the permitting legislation. It's about the companies that are now in an emergency situation. This is a crisis that hits the whole value chain of many companies, which instead of canceling people can permit people. I want to convey to the Prime Minister a message that comes from many teams. It is that there is too late a process of having a proposal Friday to be dealt with in Stortinget next week. Many enterprises are now in this situation. With regard to the permitting legislation and changes to it, I would like to encourage the government to find procedures – I believe the Storting will be willing – that will enable them to be put into effect, and effectively, from this week on. Does the Prime Minister have any comments on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e171	Of course, I want to take it with me. Of course, we should consider whether it is possible that we practice laws in a different way with an earlier date of entry into force than the Stortinget authorizes us to. In that case, it is legal work – we just have to assess that we are within the current framework of the law. But I think what's important is that the rules of permitting this now come into place quite quickly. The first statements that we should do something about the rules of leave came on Friday. It takes one week, and I think that is actually relatively fast, also in the historical context, when it comes to action.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e176	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e181	The point is that the historical context here is not entirely relevant to what many businesses are up against. I would also like to ask a question about the permitting legislation. I perceive that the government has sat down with the NHO and listened to them, and that's good. They have not sat down with the LO and listened to them about what employees' interests are about in this situation. I think that's weird. My question is: in a situation in which the government commits to provide deferred payment of property taxes, which takes people with wealth in Norway, what kind of containment is there in relation to that change in the permit code in reduced payment for businesses? What must workers take off that burden? What kind of situation will it be economic for those who are now being permitted, after the order of the Prime Minister looks at it? And how is she to ensure that the measures now being taken are seen as fair? Would she care more about the company's situation? Does she see the need of workers who are now being affected in the situation that arises?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e190	My main concern is jobs for people, and the companies are equal jobs for people. It's security and well-being in the future. It's that we don't now get bankrupts, corporations that end up, for example. in the tourism industry, which has relatively difficult margins, perhaps little to live on, and which is difficult to rebuild afterwards. Creating new businesses takes time. We should not affect our growth capacity and job creation in the future. I believe that this is of interest to both employers and employees in Norway. There is a common interest at the bottom. Our starting point is enough that the permitting rules we've had are the same permitting rules we should have in the future, that is, the same compensation as the daily allowance. I have noticed that the Labour Party has not previously problemed it when we have increased the number of days that owners of companies have had to cover, that it actually means a better payment to employees during that period. This has not been problemed before, when one has wanted to have fewer days paid by the employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e197	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e203	The Prime Minister does not answer the question. There will be a reduced period for employers, and there is an action we support. But what kind of rules will apply to those who are being sanctioned? Are these the usual rules? Should they risk getting up to 40 pst. reduction in the amount of compensation received during the period of leave? Why does the government not sit down with the social partners when they prepare such a package, not just with one of the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e208	Both the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs have agreed to meet with the employees and LO on further questions. Yesterday, the Minister of Industry met with professional organisations to find out what the situation is for those sectors, and see where the measures should be in the future. We are going to build on the tripartite cooperation in all the work ahead, but right now we need to make rapid clarifications, actions that can come quickly. So we've spent a few days preparing it, and we're going to the Storting on Friday because it's urgent. That doesn't mean we're not going to talk to the employee's side. I'm a little surprised that the Workers' Party is now saying that we should not have the usual permitation rules, which we had during the financial crisis, which we had through the oil price drop – that it is now being problematicalised. It's true that you get 62.5 pst. of 6 G. All persons with income above 6 G receive 62.5 pst. So we're going to have a significantly larger drop of 6 g. So there's a balance in this where the state compensates for the usual rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e217	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e222	Let me problem one more theme. We read in the media that the Minister of Defense is now working from home offices. It sounds wise, given the situation. Many of us can work from home offices. A lot of people can't. Those who work in health care, those who work in sanitation, those who work in transport, cannot work from home in a quarantine situation. How does the Prime Minister view the situation of the people who are being quarantined and being away from work, but who are not found sick and are not receiving a medical report? How are their interests to be cared for while they are in the quarantine of a rope?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e227	In the health insurance scheme, if you are required to be at home because of such a situation, you can – if you cannot do tasks for the employer and the employer still have to pay – be on sick pay. There is already a regulatory framework for it today. There is an assessment that needs to be made – whether you can do the job. Those who have a job where you can't actually do any of the work at home will have the opportunity to get medical coverage in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e232	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e237	It was clarifying. But then to another theme, that hits some people now. This applies to parents of children who are quarantined. Bente Rekkebo Skjevik, who is a member of the Producer Package Trøndelag AS in Frosta, sent me a specific question that applies to more people in Norway today. Two of Frosta's three kindergartens are closed with 14-day home quarantine. In a kindergarten in Oslo, the city board decided that 80 children should be quarantined. It affects about 160 parents. Then the question is, what arrangement applies to parents who have to be at home, one or two of them, to babysitting? There's also a 2nd class here in Oslo. Will they also be compensated for that home period?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e242	There is always a risk that if the Prime Minister is in an oral Question Time and has to answer all such questions exactly – in line with the rules of these Question Time – you can say something that is not 100 pst. correct or 100 pst. in line with the current date legislation. The law says that you can take out sick days if the child is ill or if the child has to be at home. But you still have to assume that even if you have children at home, you have to be able to do your job for the employer if you can do so. It is possible to be at home with a sick child while working from home in such a situation. It's important that we look at the dividing lines here. That is why it is not a single answer for everyone. We also have to think about how we're going to deal with the situation that is, how we manage to organize ourselves in a way that makes us get the most done in our society while someone has to be at home. Therefore, I am concerned that those who can work from home should be able to work from home – even if they do. care must be taken of children who are at home because they are in quarantine.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e249	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e254	But this isn't right. For very many people it is not possible to do a job for the employer if you are at home. If that job is in a hospital, if that job is on a train, if that job is on a plane, you can't do the job from home. I would like to include a last remark to the Prime Minister here: there is a need to clean up legislation and arrangements when we are at the entrance to something that can last for many months. Nav’s website says: ‘You are not entitled to medical treatment if you have to be at home because someone else in the household is quarantined without being ill. ‘A child who is told by the urban doctor to be at home without the presence of a disease in that child is not ill. I believe that there is a need to clean up the legislation that makes it predictable for those parents who have to take responsibility in such a situation, and I urge the Prime Minister to address that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e261	First, I want to say that my premise was that someone can't work at home, while others can work at home – and then you should be able to work at home. We have to make sure that this country does not stop. Then it will be different whether you can work from home or not. It must also be taken into account. I fully agree that we need to clarify some of these questions, so that it becomes clearer in the future. But it's also such that we have to have the basic vision that we all have to consider whether we might have to work a little bit more from home to make sure that, for example. the pressure on public communication is being reduced. All jobs must now plan a little ahead. It's fine if you're right now, for example. plans that not too many people travel at the time of the rush, so that the load will be slightly reduced where public transport is the main means of transport, as it is in the larger cities, and that the density will be slightly reduced. This must be done by all those who are employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e267	Kjersti Top - for the next question of follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e272	Yesterday, according to the health minister, work is being done on the epidemic along two tracks — one path of infection and one route of treatment — to prevent deaths among the seriously ill. According to the health authorities, a preliminary scenario is expected in Norway where 22,000 can be admitted to hospitals and where 5 500 may require intensive treatment. In 2018, there were around 10,000 somatic hospitals in public hospitals. We know that many large hospitals are already struggling with overcoats and corridor Asians today, and that daily treatment there is already reserved for the most seriously ill. At the same time, we have hospitals that can have free capacity. My question is whether the Prime Minister can say anything about the work of the government to guide the healthcare system to the mobilisation of all available hospital facilities in Norway, including local hospitals and possibly private ideal hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e277	This was the mandate we gave to the Health Directorate in February to plan and apply under emergency legislation in Norway: request, for example. hotels, but also open spaces, etc. The Health Directorate now monitors the capacity of hospitals — a lot of which has already been surveyed — where capacity, opportunities and equipment are available to set up several intensive departments around the hospitals. In addition, facilities related to hospitals are being monitored for use, so in the next round there are questions about hotel capacity. Then there is a job of monitoring employees, staff, the possibility of mobilising more resources, looking at whether pensioners who are qualified to help, can be put back into work – so get to all these offers and mobilise full resources on it. This is among the preparedness work that has been done for a situation where we need to raise the capacity of sick people, but also in intensive care departments around the treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e282	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e287	I do not think the Prime Minister answers clearly about the local economy and the pressure on the municipalities in this situation. We see that the government focuses a lot on action against the business community as an employer, but municipalities are also important and large employers in many places, and municipalities are also the providers of basic services on which the rest of the business community depends. In the future, municipalities will experience increased pressures as a result of the coronary crisis. An example is the increase in the cost of nursing staff in hospital homes, those who will deal with the most vulnerable in this crisis. Nursing staff who are at risk and others who get sick or have to stay at home must be replaced by temporary workers. At the same time, economic decline can lead to a lower local economy. In concrete terms, how will the government ensure that the municipalities have the resources needed to meet the costs of time to come as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e294	In the case of the local economy, our income system is built in such a way that if tax revenue fails, it will be compensated for by larger transfers in the following year — it is part of the income system as such. So the planning for growth in the municipal sector is quite systematic. When it comes to the issue of local government finances, we said yesterday that we have three phases in this work. What we're doing now is making sure hospitals get money, so they can buy equipment and mobilise resources, and we're going to make sure they get powers to exceed budgets if they need it. And we're going to come up with emergency measures to make sure companies don't go overboard. Then we have said that we should look at the measures that are important in the medium term, which can be instruments to finance businesses – loan schemes and other measures that contribute to it, through Innovation Norway, also increased activity. What we're also going to see is the municipal economy and the development of the municipal economy. It's part of the increase in activity and coverage. But there are no municipalities that are going to go bankrupt in the next few weeks, and therefore it is not part of the emergency measures that are coming on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e301	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e306	There is great frustration, not least among health professionals, about unclear advice, cracking recommendations, unclear management and a absent Prime Minister — until yesterday. The head of the intensive department of Oslo University Hospital Ullevål now asks for three measures: firstly, that all events with more than 50 people be cancelled; secondly, that buses, railways and the like go half-full; and thirdly, that of home offices for all those who have the opportunity. He said, ‘This is not achieved by the existing measures. We must make the tough measures now, otherwise there is not one intensive bed available if people get heart attack or hit their heads in the asphalt." [[...]] Some municipalities have come up with powerful measures, such as Bergen. Why are these measures not applicable to all municipalities? Where is the determination and action required from health professionals around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e318	There are many voices in situations and crises like this, based on what they see. For me – and for any management, I think – it is important to listen to the professional authorities who have been legally authorised to deal with this situation. The size of this division of labour is addressed not later than last year. We are listening to the advice from the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute, in line with what is planned for infectious diseases and preparedness in Norway, precisely because we are not going to do things overdue or do things too late. Then it's the ones that have to give us the main advice. They also listen to the recordings that come from everyone else, but it's important to say that we've given some authority. We have been working intensively since the beginning of February, for example. the planning of infection protection in the municipalities to ensure that more people are better prepared to deal with this and that those municipalities that do not have a good infectious protection plan also have a disease protection plan established.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e325	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e330	Our neighbouring countries have been more powerful in their efforts. The Danes, for example, also follow technical advice, but are introducing measures now before it is too late. We see that the government is in favour of measures that will cut the bill for the owners, i.e. you take more of the bill for permits. The question is whether there will be measures that will also help workers. You go for three days without income — in some kind of waiting time — before you get daily pay from Nav. Will the government cover the three days with zero pay for the employees and take the bill for the employers? Secondly, many low-wages in the hotel and restaurant industries will now be outsourced. They already have little money to travel with. They'll get a cut down to 60 pst. of their wages and salaries. Will the government consider increasing the level of permeability for those who are now low-paid, so that we don't get increased differences and economic problems for those who already have little to go with?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e342	We have a well-established regulatory framework, with legislation and systems for it, which has been used in all previous situations where we have had to do it. I do not see it as expedient now to make major changes to that legislation. You get, for example, the tyre 62,5 pst. up to 6G. Everyone who's over 6G doesn't get compensated for anything over it. This means that, in principle, the permitting legislation and the day-to-day payment system are designed in such a way that those who have below medium or medium income receive better compensation than those who have higher incomes in this context. In a situation where we need to spend a lot of money and have a lot of intensity, we might have to make sure that the arrangements we have are working, and that they are the ones we've used in all the other previous crises that we're still using. The measures taken in Denmark will certainly be adapted to Danish conditions. But they have e.g. It is recommended that events with 1000 people be cancelled. In Norway, we have recommended cancelling events with 500 people. In this way, there are areas where we are stricter than the Danes, and the Danes currently have the same infectious situation as we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e351	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e356	I think there are very few who feel that the Norwegian authorities are too firm, too cashy and too powerful in their response. Maybe there's a gap in today's situation. I note that changes are being made in terms of employers’ leave rules, that more is to be covered by the bill for employers, but that the bill for employees is being rejected, which will be given three days without any income – in a waiting period – before they receive a daily allowance. In addition, we know from the last time there was a fall in oil prices, that the changes in the legislation were too late, so we lost competence. If the period of leave had been extended to 52 weeks, for which we are going to go in, the companies could have allowed the employees to remain employees, rather than giving up on them to collect employees other than those they had before. We wonder whether the government will assess these changes, which will benefit the workers, both coverage and extension of the leave period, in order to avoid companies losing valuable labour due to a longer crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e365	I think the representative of Moxnes's claim and reality is a little special. The fact that we are making exceptional measures to prevent companies from going bankrupt is as important for employees as for employers. Having a job to go to, knowing that the job – what you have done to build up over a long period of time – has not disappeared, must be the most important thing we contribute to. So when we introduce measures to help improve liquidity, it is not the way to help employers as such – it is to save people's jobs. That's why we're introducing these measures. Therefore, there is no black and white situation. I believe that workers and employers have a common interest in this situation. It is that we do not lose jobs and important businesses for the future in this period. This is why we are launching measures to contribute both to liquidity enhancements and to the ability to permeate in the past. The black and white image, which may come from the ideological point of view of the Moxnes, I don't think people recognize it. They like their job, and they're busy with their business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e372	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e377	We have not rejected the measures that have already been launched, but we also want measures to ensure that workers do not take the biggest bill for the crisis, as we have seen in previous economic crises. It is fully possible for the government to notify measures to avoid going three days without any income, which is in today's legislation. You pick up the bill for employers — you do — and then you should also take some of the bill for the employees, according to our assessment. We also wonder whether the government will impose any conditions on the companies and companies that will now receive emergency aid. Will the government, for example, For example, demand that those who receive money from the State refrain from doing so in different ways. from dividends, refrain from providing large executive pay supplements and refrain from spending the money that comes in the form of emergency aid to enrich the owners or managers of the companies? Is there a plan for this – setting conditions for state aid in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e384	The measures we come with on Friday are measures designed to help companies that are in a liquidity dispute, which are in a situation where they can actually go bankrupt. It is not a matter of regulating management wages or dividends. Take, for example: the proposal we have on the suspension of taxes on wealth: it is based on the fact that in a deficit situation there is no need to charge dividends in order to pay a tax, but on the contrary must pay that tax later when one has come over this knee. So you don't get tax relief; you get tax deferral with what we propose in this area. This means that in the future, if the company actually continues and the asset value is there, you have to pay the tax that was deferred this year. But we make sure that the jobs are safe by not taking dividends at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e389	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e394	I want to ask some questions that I think people are wondering about, and I want to give a big reward to employees who are on and dealing with this coronary eruption. I understand that it is difficult for the authorities to continuously assess which measures to put in place, but I just have to say that I think many are both confused and worried out there. One day we see that it lands charter aircraft from the most affected areas, and that those who are on board just walk into our country. One day the big event is arranged, and the next day it is not recommended to have that kind of event. Health professionals are calling for national guidelines and governance, and people who are hit or have been in contact with those affected have a lot of questions. I've talked to more people who are in this situation. They spend a lot of time after warning to figure out what to do. What does that mean for me, my family? What happens now? They are told to call their decision maker, and there they can stand in line for hours. When they get through, they are often told to call the medical officer. There they can stand one to three hours in a phone queue. Oslo has set up a corona phone. There is the message: there is a lot going on, we do not have the capacity to answer the enquiry. 113 gets called down, and people among us get brain bleeding and heart attacks and other serious diseases even if the coronary virus is on. In the newspaper I see that the Health Directorate now says they have 6 000 – 7 000 enquiries per day, and there are 30 pieces to answer the phones. Ensuring capacity is important. As I see it, two things are called for: a consistent information, common guidelines, the same message, and more in the first line to deal with a huge movement among people. I wonder what the government will do to address the situation and ensure that people can get faster information and more consistent information.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e403	I have a great deal of understanding both that people are concerned about, and that people feel that the information may not be entirely correct, partly because there are many votes, many views about what the other should be, but also because you may not quite know what a phase such an epidemic is going through. In the first phase, when you can trace everyone back to the source, there will be a set of measures that are essential. Those measures address those persons coming from areas where the source of the infection is and those in the surrounding area. It's the messages that have been clear in the first phase of this. As the Institute of Public Health and the Directorate of Health said on their statement yesterday, we are now in a different phase, because now we are beginning to see infection that spreads in the population a little independent of the source it comes from. Stronger measures will then be needed. These phase shifts are there. It may be that there has been a little too little communication that we have to get into a situation where we have to step up the measures, but it was also said in the past that we would have to step up the measures as they get there. At that time, there will be stronger measures, so that today there is stronger action than it was last week. In two or three weeks, there may be even stronger responses, depending on how they are. I agree that one has to try to be consistent, but there are many voices in these debates about what to have. The second is that we have to provide the capacity to give answers. The last thing I agree with. As a result, several municipalities, but also the various agencies, have tried to redeploy. It's also important to say that we have to use the most qualified people to treat people, so we also have a limit on how many people can sit and accept. But we're constantly looking at the capacity of responding to people and making sure that we get enough information for single citizens in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e412	I experienced so much the same thing yesterday. Then it was one of my children who had been in contact with a child in a family where it was a question of whether one of the parents was infected, and they were going to start to find information via the website, because they found out early that using the phone was a relatively demanding exercise. By reading through this information, it was quite difficult to get wise on this, but then we found out that, based on what I read, we were not going to get quarantined. On the other hand, if you feel that you are infected, we have to assess whether we are going to be quarantined. It really means that people who have been in contact with someone who is infected go for days before being quarantined, depending on whether they are infected or not. Does the Prime Minister realize that it is relatively confusing for the population to know how to deal with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e418	I understand it's confusing. At the same time, we cannot quarantine Norway as a whole. There are some of the choices we have to make on the road. Therefore, the choice has been that if there is a person who is suspected of being exposed to it, that person is in quarantine. When people it has been in contact with until then are tested, they have symptoms of it, and those who have had contact in that phase in the first round will also be. But taking the second and fourth line and the fifth line, I think we would have quickly seen would have meant that very many things in our society had not worked, for example. care for the elderly or the health care system around small municipalities. That's why you've chosen that way of dealing with it, obviously based on probability calculations and the future image of the infection. As I emphasize, this is a disease that is going to have a development like an epidemic. There's going to be more cases. But the most important thing we do now is try to delay this and make sure that we distribute it and get a slower pace. Then it'll be better for our health care system, it'll be better for all those who, for reasons other than the corona, also need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e425	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e430	It's extremely important that we do what we can to prevent infection, precisely because of all the older ones that we have in society that we want to take care of, and those that are sick. There are also many parents who have experienced that schoolchildren are being quarantined, and suddenly they have to be home for 14 days. The rule is that you have 10 days if you have one child, and you have 15 days if you have more than two. So I think most of the parents can sign that it's often the way that the kids are sick for several rounds in a year, so here you can risk spending the entire self-reporting period on this. This also leads to a concern about income, of course. You have expenses on houses, you have expenses on all the bills you have to pay in a month. That is why I wonder whether the Prime Minister thinks that the state should take the bill for this, because this is a joint effort to ensure that the spread is minimised.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e435	The government hasn't made an assessment of whether we're going to take joint action for all of this. We're going to have to spend a lot of money on health in the future, on treatment and on systems, and make sure they're up and going, and make sure companies don't get together. But we cannot expect that there will not be any more of us who will have to take some costs related to this – that we cannot cover everyone who has to cancel their flight tickets, for example, and will not get the money back because you cannot travel to that country anymore. It's enough that this is going to be a little hard work for all of us, and that we can't cover up all of the things that may be costs for individuals associated with this. What's most important we do is we have priority one clear. It's to make sure that we have a health care system that is able and able to help people and make sure that we get the least possible that dies from this disease. And point two: that we make sure that we get out of such a path of disease with businesses and businesses that are robust enough that we also have growth power in the economy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e440	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e445	We're probably going to discuss further what measures we're going to put there. However, recommendations have also been made to cancel major events. There's a lot of us happy, even if you're going to notice it on many fronts. Nevertheless, a large number of buses, trains and T-courses travel in and out of our big cities every single day. On many of these people stand like herring in barrels, and it's clear that it also helps you get a little worried. I wonder what the Prime Minister will say to all those who wonder why this continues as before, and what kind of assessments you've made relating to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e452	The spread in Norway is still not so great, and we have to make sure that our social life actually works. At the same time, the recommendation is to think through everything. Is it e.g. to be able to have a slightly different type of work rhythm in a workplace, where you don't top everything that everyone comes at the same time, which means that you have to travel in the rush traffic? If you can travel at other times, can you use more home offices? It's an important part of the whole way of working in the future. But as I say, we have to come in stages with the infectious disease prevention board that fits the situation and the spread that is at some point, and that's one of the reasons why we can't stop everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e459	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e464	Then I'm going to end by asking about something I think a lot of employees in companies and business owners are wondering. There are many who are now struggling heavily. Thousands of jobs are at stake, and for every day that goes, problems get bigger, and some are more vulnerable than others. It's travel life with hotel businesses and airlines, we see the oil service industry, industrial companies, it's the merchandise trade – there's a lot of people who are now able to approach the edge of the stump. I'm very happy that the government is working on measures, because it's urgent. We look at Denmark, where the government has presented proposals for a They have deferred both VAT and tax payments, as well as compensation for events cancelled as a result of the presence of more than 1000 people. I'm very excited about what proposals come on Friday, but when can we expect the government to come back with tools for concretely vulnerable industries and projects that can be started to stimulate the economy – i.e. phases 2 and 3? Because it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e471	In the first phase, there are now some emergency measures that are, in themselves, in line with what was said at the press conference. That's what we're ready to deliver, and we think it's more important to deliver those measures now. Then the government is going into the budget conference this week, and we're going to work on the questions. We're working on identifying the situation of the different industries and where it's going to hit the most. There are differences in the effects for different industries — there is no doubt that cancellations in the travel industry, in air transport, are violent and require direct action as well. But then there are some secondary effects due to lower activity in general in the world economy, and some due to supply problems, for example. the type of inputs that should have been produced in China has now been delayed due to the Chinese measures. Therefore, there is no market failure, but simply an inability to produce quickly enough. All of this we have to go through and look at what kind of measures are the most appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e478	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e484	The country is in a very difficult situation, and in Norway we have a tradition of helping each other in times of crisis. I just want to say directly to the Prime Minister that we in the Central Party will provide all the help the government needs, and do everything we can to get matters through as quickly as possible in the Storting to get the necessary measures in place. It's about all of us here limiting the consequences for the people we're set to serve. The Prime Minister can make contact at any time, and we'll help with what we can. It was good that the Council of State Höie was here and explained the health situation yesterday. There have been many rounds of health now, and I will move on to the economic situation. This crisis will have short-term economic repercussions. We tolerate that as society and land. We're a pretty robust society, and we stand together. But what worries us extra much in the Center Party is community-critical infrastructure and Norwegian aviation. Norwegian aviation is very important to bind Norway together. We've invested a lot of money in expanding a short-range network. We see how it is crucial for the Norwegian health care system, for our preparedness, for business, and to make family life go together. In the current crisis in aviation, it is important that we come together quickly. I know that we have had a slightly different view of different charges. That's it. But now there is an extraordinary situation, and there are especially three concrete measures I want to challenge the Prime Minister. One is the fare. Me and the Central Party believe it should be permanently removed, but at least it should be able to be removed now in the crisis situation affecting Norwegian aviation. The second is airport charges — removing airport charges to help with credit and provide more capital in companies. The third is reduced travel life savings. These are concrete measures that will be able to remedy the situation quickly, and I think it is very important that we now together ensure that we also have an up-to-date aviation when this crisis is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e499	We are in complete agreement. First of all, I just want to thank you for your support that we have to stand together. I think it is important that we look at common actions, and what we can do. In the coming year, I think all of us may have to put away some mindsets of wishes you have to bet in different areas, and concentrate on addressing both the health challenges of the weakest groups and the economic situation that is evolving. In this way, the situation is very different from the perspective we have now, than it was when we left the budget for the current year. It is also reflected by what is currently being done in other European countries in the form of increased use of funds. As far as aviation is concerned, I agree that it is one of our most critical points at the moment. The travel industry has major challenges, but aviation may have the biggest. This is primarily due to the lack of demand, and then we need to find measures that contribute to the liquidity situation of aviation. That's where we're trying to find the right measures. I have heard all the measures mentioned here. Some of them would have no impact on the liquidity situation. Travel revenue is of very little importance in this context, because there is no money remaining with the companies. So they don't give up any more liquidity. It does not do that type of action, but charges at airports and the fare, which is also initially a fee paid by the passenger. We've said we have to look at all of this, and we have to look at the total load. I think that actually is the most important thing now. It is not the instrument or part of it, but it is the total burden for aviation and airlines in the current situation, so that it goes straight to what may be a slightly more critical liquidity situation for companies. We are working hard on this, while – as I said yesterday – we need to take care of state aid law and the principle of non-discrimination. We cannot treat one company differently from the other. There must be joint action.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e512	The last thing the Prime Minister says is that we have to deal with the law. But then we see that the different companies have slightly different functions, and some companies have a larger function for societal critical infrastructure. But we have the code we have. The Prime Minister also addresses demand deficits. For example, the largest customer in the Netherlands is the Norwegian Health Service. Because of what is now taking place on health priorities, all contracts are stopped. Also, the state's own demand for those services affects those companies very vigorously. We can't take care of ourselves so that when this crisis is over, we have lost the important companies. Of course, we are involved in the liquidity situation, but I think it is also important that you dare to look at the daily costs of taxes, because it has been a heavy burden on the companies. It can also be done temporarily, although I know that there are different views. Does the Prime Minister have any concrete measures for the tourism industry that she believes can remedy in the current situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e519	Among the emergency measures we believe are important for the tourism industry are the two tax measures that we launched yesterday. One is for those who had profits last year. They will now be able to bring a deficit against the surplus. It is a measure that has been used in the past with retroactive effect. This means that liquidity could be facilitated in the bank to continue to operate with lower activity. The second is that because very many travel businesses are personally owned enterprises with active ownership, the issue of taxes on wealth will also have an impact. In particular, for many of the rural tourism businesses, this type of instrument is important. Further measures will gradually come within what we call phase 2 and phase 3 of this work, which will be general schemes within Innovation Norway, loan schemes, support schemes, what is involved in conversion and measures related to, for example, development of competence and activity of that type. All that will come in. But for the short-term liquidity crisis, I think the two things will help make it easier for banks to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e526	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e531	Back to aviation: when we talk about aviation in Oslo context, it's often about vacations, leisure, etc., but aviation is simply a completely crucial social infrastructure for our preparedness. With the signals you see coming from international aviation, and when you look at the situation of aviation now, I'm afraid we can see crises quite quickly. Individual companies may be at risk of moving in the very short term. My final call to Prime Minister Erna Solberg in this area is that we have very rapid progress, that we get quick action that will give the market confidence in the companies and we can save them. One of the worst things that can happen in this crisis – if we ignore the health, which is without doubt the worst – is that we do not now put in quick enough measures for the type of business that we are totally dependent on in a year's time. That's why my last call is: act quickly, we're going to set up anytime, anywhere, to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e536	I want to thank you for the last time and just say that we have put more emphasis on this because we see that this is a vulnerable industry, also because air carriers have been through significant challenges over the last 10 to 15 years, both to become profitable and to be able to operate. There's been a lot of expansion in some people, with a lot of debt, and there's no doubt that there are companies that are going to work through this fall in demand at European level that we're now seeing. But we are committed to trying to find the targeted measures and, in particular, those that ensure that they have liquidity to operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e541	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e546	I think we all in the political environment really want the same thing. We want to flatten out an infectious strain and a pathology, so that we can keep the capacity of the health care system, and we want to reduce the economic impact. So we can have different opinions about what works best, and it comes from multiple of us. The Senterpartie comes with recordings relating to airport charges and air passenger charges – we believe that there will be important measures for a period in order to avoid serious air traffic situations – and we come up with reports of reduced VAT on travel. That's what we have, and we believe that this situation requires cooperation between all the parties. There are many good suggestions from the government too, but it is important that the government takes the recordings from us seriously. There's no point in inviting us to a dialogue if it's such a dialogue that we should support the government's proposals without the government being willing to take our shots seriously. So then the question is, will the government take the shots from the other parties seriously, or is it such that we are primarily invited to agree with the government? It's also a slightly important starting point for the discussions we're going to have later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e551	I'm concerned that we're going to get the whole idea virtue and the lot of suggestions up. What we have to do is make sure that we investigate the proposals that are coming, in a way that makes us see what effect they actually have on the different areas. I have said that all of the points that have been mentioned, for example. in the field of aviation, are among the themes we are now going through and looking at – what will have the most impact. What is the purpose, and I believe that everyone agrees, is to make sure that we have an infrastructure, that we have airlines and everything that can work. So I think it's nice to get recorded. We're going to take everybody seriously and also look at how we're sure that we're selecting those recordings and those things that ultimately have the most impact on what's the challenge and the problems in the different sectors. Here there are many sectors that may not have challenges in the day one or in the first week, but that are going to experience it a little longer. So I'm open for recording. We're going to evaluate everyone in a proper way and of course be in dialogue with the other parties about these recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e558	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e564	I thank you for that answer, and I think it's interesting. We don't have time for too many investigations. That's exactly what's kind of peculiar to this situation, that we have to act quickly, and it's by doing things quickly that one can actually prevent parts of the economy in Norway from getting serious problems. There is no doubt that the aviation is of those who are struggling hard. Today, airport charges are what finance Avinor. Avinor is a state-owned company, and the state has opportunities both to make a zero dividend and to inject equity into Avinor if we want to, but we can relieve the industry of the fees they pay to Avinor today. The centre party believes that being in the forefront of such things before something crashes, especially in the areas that are now most vulnerable, is very important, and that one does not have too much time to think and figure out the knowledge and the broad before taking action.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e569	We have the ambition that on Friday there will also be actions related to aviation, so we have not intended to investigate the knowledge and the broadness. But we're going through all the recordings, and the ones that are now mentioned are also among those we're looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e574	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e579	I experience the message from all the parties that are quite clear and quite united, really. One is that we are prepared to cooperate with the government on the measures that may be necessary and that will be necessary for us to get through this difficult situation together in a good way. The second is that I feel that it is a desire for clear advice. The population needs clear advice, not solve recommendations. I think that if the health authorities think it's best that we don't shake hands, or that as much as possible in the cities have home offices to avoid congestion in public transport, then the advice should not be a wish, but a clear message that now we're not going to shake hands, or that now everyone who can have a home office should have it. I think it's a message for the Prime Minister to bring back to the health authorities. We need clarity, not clues. I believe the will for solidarity in the population is now very strong, and it is a clear desire to help, so clear recommendations will be listened to. The benefit of democracy also in difficult situations is that freedom of expression and critical questions improve the response, and that is why the Prime Minister also receives some of them. I would like to follow up the health minister's guarantee to state hospitals and health institutions yesterday, where it became clear that the state will pay what comes from extra costs. Then I think it is wrong to postpone the municipalities for once in the future, because the municipalities are also now facing financial concerns and need a clear signal that their expenses will also be covered. They will have a large part of the responsibility for the response for many of those who will be exposed, e.g. those who get quarantined around the country. So I'd like to challenge the Prime Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e588	I take with me the views related to clear advice. The question is what's a advice, and what's a directive, and where the next piece of it comes from. The advice not to shake hands is quite clear now, and we're all trying to suppress the impulse we always have to stretch out a hand when we meet people, or hug if there's people we haven't seen in a while, but we're getting to suppress those impulses in a good way. I am of course prepared that we should also have critical questions. I believe that we have some time to assess the challenges for municipalities, and which instruments will be the best. But we have also said that it is on our agenda to look at what framework it is going to have in the future. We are well aware that the local government sector, not least in the health and care sector, will also have to initiate exceptional measures, which will mean that costs other than those envisaged in the normal operation will have to be allocated to the local government sector in order not to cause other vital areas to suffer. But as I have said, we also need to use our resources for this. That means we have to keep lower activity in other areas in the future. Now we also give these advice that we should have lower activity. We've tried to have concentration around the most acute measures, and there's not so much that we've been told exactly how we do it for the municipalities, what we've seen is the most acute. We have to spend some time watching how it's going to happen, what it's going to be of extra cost. Part of what the Health Directorate does when they request and order, is also helping the first line service in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e597	I thank you for your answer. I think the reason why it is important that such a guarantee comes to the municipalities in a short time is that the municipalities will have a very, very important role in the response. They're the ones who run the nursing homes, they're the ones who run the nursing homes and home health care. They will also have to have a responsibility if a large number of people get quarantined. It requires equipment and requires personnel. I think that a good parallel can be to the time when then Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen drew the gold card during the financial crisis. It was necessary then, for the banks were in trouble. Now we need to know that the government has the gold card in readiness this time as well to help those parts of society that will need it. At least it would be good to confirm that the government assesses a corresponding guarantee to the municipalities. Then you get to look at the exact moment, but we mean that it's needed – sooner and not later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e602	We look at the costs of municipalities, and then we either need to increase the municipal economy in general and transfer more or make arrangements to cover some of the costs associated with this. There are things coming. The municipalities will probably experience that many of the measures now being implemented can be found some form of coverage for the future. But we have to figure out the right way. We cannot give a blank authorisation without having gone through things, and then we come to Stortinget before we finally conclude in these matters. So it's important to remember that the gold card was never used. Here we're going to have to spend money. The credit card was a guarantee to prevent bankruptcy in the banking system, but it was not actually used. What was spent was a lot of money on the state budget – so it's not the gold card analogy, because it was security and guarantees for the banking system – it was the measures taken on the state budget in other areas, just as during the 2014–2015 oil price fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e609	It opens for follow-up questions – first Audun Lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e614	It is safe to know that the Prime Minister is in the dark. I'll ask you something a little bit different. The Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute have a key role in the response given the situation we are in. It is also institutions that, through Erna Solberg's time in government, have received significant cuts – 250 mills and 295 mills. Total NOK There are cuts that have been made without any impact assessment, partly as a result of the government’s so-called red tape and efficiency reform. It has probably come quite well in recent years that it has meant cutting off in professional activities. Among other things, concerns related to reduced capacity in the field of infectious diseases have been raised and expressed in January last year, among others. The European Agency for the Safety and Health at Work (FHI) concerns savings. At the same time, the government has continued with these ABE cuts in different parts of the health system. Were the cuts in the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute wise, as the Prime Minister sees it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e623	Firstly, the first year of this government's existence, we increased the budgets of the Health Directorate because we started the whole major reform work on the patient's health care system, with a great deal of work related to the package sequence to ensure that we treated more. It has contributed to both better quality and better health care in areas where we have packaging processes and interactions. Then we've gone down in the budgets afterwards. What's good about the ABE reform is that we're saving in. We have it with us in the budget negotiations, and then we consider where we need extra efforts in different areas, so that there is a political priority for the areas. This means that we have the opportunity and greater scope for action to put in place efforts where there are critical issues related to development. I think the ABE reform is very good. This means that, in the future, everyone will have to plan for slightly lower activity, and then specific areas will have a political focus to be able to return money from the common scheme that everyone has to put money into the pot. This will protect us, among other things. the health sector of the treatment system by increasing basic appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e630	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e636	The reality is that the additions the government has given to the hospitals in the budgets, in reality, look completely different because the ABE cuts take away a lot of the money. In the situation we are in now, there is a lot of attention about the lack of capacity in the healthcare system because hospitals usually run with full coverage and have experienced underfinancing in recent years. But I want to go back to the Institute of Public Health, because the Prime Minister didn't entirely answer that question. The Public Health Institute alone has taken a cut of 140 positions. There is no doubt that there is an institution that has been slimmed down during this government. Given the important role we now see that they have, I would like to hear if the Prime Minister believes that there has been a wise policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e643	The major change is related to clearing the tasks of the Public Health Institute and to the fact that part of the commercial research activity has been moved out of the Public Health Institute. There is also a major reform in the division of labour – what is the role of the National Institute, what the role of the Health Directorate, and what are they not supposed to do? Some of these relate to externally funded research linked to the Institute for Public Health. Now I don't remember all this in detail, because we did this a few years ago, but it's not like we've cut 140 jobs in the core business of the Public Health Institute. They did a lot of research, they do a lot of research and laboratory work for others, and we have separated some of it because we believe that the role of the Public Health Institute should be clearer. So it's not the ABE reform that's the reason for this, it's actually a clearing of work tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e648	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e653	It is true that the cuts in the Institute of Public Health have been significantly more extensive than just the work to be done. The European Anti-Fraud Office expressed its concern in January last year. There have also been clear reports earlier that this affects professional activities. I just want to ask you one more time: does the Prime Minister feel confident that these cuts have not gone too far, and that the FHI has all the resources they need in today's situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e658	I perceive that the Public Health Institute is doing a good job, has resources and can mobilise resources. Just as with other agencies, they can now collect resources in this situation in order to get more resources if they need it to deal with it. We've cleared up in the Public Health Institute's way of working -- what was their core tasks as a government agency, and what was research activity. I have to say that I think it's a bit on the verge of taking this picture and putting it into the infection preparedness now in order to try to create a picture that we've weakened the preparedness because we've cleared up what FHI is going to do in research inside and outside – a body that also has authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e663	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e668	I'm going to another crisis. The situation of children and adults in the Moria camp in Greece is currently desperate. About 20,000 people, of whom 7,500 children, are in deep distress. Chronically ill children no longer receive public health care, and the relief organisations that are now keeping them alive are being attacked by right-wing extremes and may need to withdraw. This happens in a country that the Nordics know very well. Several hundred thousand of us go on vacation every year to Greece and sunbath only kilometers away from Moria hell camp. It's not enough to help them where they are. The situation is unmanageable for Greece. The asylum institution there is not functioning, they are unable to enforce the right to asylum. That is why Greece has asked for help, and that is why Germany has recently announced that they will help, like several other countries. In Norway, the number of asylum applications is the lowest in 22 years. Reception is empty, and the municipalities have capacity. Trondheim, Oslo, Stavanger and several others want to receive more people from Moria. This is the largest humanitarian crisis in Europe for a long time, and Norway’s position is therefore to wait for a joint agreement that the EU has so far spent four years not to achieve and which now seems totally utopian. It's no shame to turn around. Will the Prime Minister ensure that Norway participates in the European Union’s efforts to evacuate children and vulnerable people from the Moria camp, while at the same time working for a more long-term shared European responsibilities for migrants and refugees coming to Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e677	The government's attitude has not been to wait and see. The government’s attitude has been to be very active in ensuring that conditions are improved for the refugees and asylum seekers who are in Greece. That's why we've been working very hard with the Greek authorities ever since the refugee crisis came in 2015/2016, and we're still doing it. We have recently concluded a new agreement with Greece to ensure better conditions, and we do so along two axes. One is that we are working to raise the capacity of Greek asylum seekers and ensure that they can actually deal with them, and also use the agreement with Turkey to return people who do not need protection. The second thing we do is to make sure that precisely for vulnerable groups and single minors, the measures need to be improved. Among the things we now agree with the Greek authorities is to establish 300 places for lone minors on the mainland during the second half of this year, so that they get a better offer. Norway uses its funds to finance just that. So saying that we're just looking at or not doing anything -- no, on the contrary, we're helping where the problems are actually, and we're helping far more where the problems are, than what we would do if we had brought to Norway a handful of the vulnerable. Establishing places for single minors on the mainland will help to provide better follow-up. Providing for the capacity and handling of cases and returning to Turkey will be relevant as well as getting what is needed to make the Turkey agreement work. There's been a bit of a challenge in that bottleneck.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e688	I feel that the government is responding in two ways. One is humanitarian aid and some procedural assistance to Greece, and the other is to work for a European agreement. As for the last one, I'm very uncertain about Norway's position there. I feel that it is very unfortunate that Europe put itself in some kind of debt of gratitude to Turkey by making Turkey a sort of outsourced asylum recipient for the whole of Europe, which means that Erdogan can then use migrants and refugees as a means of pressuring his foreign policy and supporting his regime. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if Norway is now working to find an alternative to the Turkey-EU agreement that will allow Europe to escape this kind of pressure from Turkey, and that will give us a better distribution of responsibilities for migrants who come to Europe, who do not make us dependent on Turkey.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e695	We work along many axes to make sure fewer migrate. We work in the areas around Lake Chad by ensuring that human trafficking is not the main activity there and that farmers can operate with other activities. We are working with Rwanda, which has taken back 13,000 migrants who had stranded Libya under terrible conditions. We are one of the countries that has said that we are going to take quotas from there, among the vulnerable, and use our refugee quota for it. We're accepting 3,000 quota refugees, and that's a large number. The challenge is that with the great waves of migration we have – because there are some who are refugees from a war situation, and some who are refugees from political persecution, but there are also quite a number of migrants moving around – we need to have clear control, both at our external borders and at the external borders of Schengen, and have rules for it. It's also to prevent more people from moving around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e702	It opens for follow-up questions – first Jon Engen-Helgheim
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e708	I am very happy to hear the attitude of the Prime Minister on this issue. Here, the Progress Party and the Right have been very close together, precisely because we know that the best help for most people is given in the neighbourhoods. But I'm a little curious about how the government is now working towards the EU to deal with the situation as best it can, because it's been about a distribution agreement. We see today that very many of those who travel, especially over the most dangerous route, are those who can be referred to as groundless asylum seekers. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that the asylum system, or the objective of asylum in Europe, in itself contributes to people who are not in need, ending up on a dangerous flight and eventually in suffering and distress. I would like to ask the following: how does the government now work to prevent more people from trying to stay in Europe when they really don't need it, and to ensure that the EU puts all its efforts into the neighbourhoods, where it can best be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e717	I think we should be so honest and say that it's not necessarily the belief that they get asylum, which makes some of them come; I think it's the belief that it's a better life to live illegally in Europe, live in a black economy, even with the danger of being exploited, without the rights you have. There are a lot of people in Europe who live without that kind of rights, and because it's hard to return people, it feels like being a better life than the life where they come from, with greater opportunities, greater chances, even though in a way we wouldn't see it. This means that it is simply our standard of living, our well-being and our labour market that are attractive. And Norway is a more tidy country in many of these areas than many other countries. We have more transparent relationships, and that's why we want to clean things up a lot. But we see countries that implement regulatory mechanisms for people who have been for a long time, for example. Spain has done so repeatedly. We're working on relocation. The most important thing we do is actually return. It works there, but it also works against people who are illegal in the country. Have a return agreement, have an opportunity to send people back. It'll be the biggest brake.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e724	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e729	I hear the government repeat that you should help the refugees where they are. Then it seems as if the Prime Minister and the government have not understood what they are like right now. There's no health, not school, not care. There are right-wing extremes that threaten auxiliary workers, so they have to flee. So in the middle of this war zone of big politics, there are kids who have been sitting for years without school, without help, without care. Greece has asked for help. UNHCR has asked for evacuation. Refugee Aid and Doctor Without Borders have asked for evacuation. But the government won't. Now Germany has taken an initiative in a coalition of willing men to pick up some of these kids sitting there completely helpless. Is it true that this government is on the lines of Viktor Orbán and Hungary and not on Angela Merkel's line that we should show solidarity both with Greece and with the children?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e736	We just made it clear that we've spent 10 billion dollars. D on refugees in neighbouring countries to Syria. We have signed an agreement of 53 million. the euro linked to Greece to help. It's not on Viktor Orbán's line. It's actually doing more in relation to our population and our economy than what Germany is doing. So exactly that kind of description I don't think is adequate for reality, if I'm going to say it in a nice way. Helping people where they are is just helping in Greece. On the mainland of Greece, we are now helping build homes, or an institution, for 300 pieces to help those who are weakest, and to take vulnerable groups and lone minors out of the camps and into other residential facilities. We also make sure that Greece can start to have a working system for handling the cases, which is one of the big plugs for both return and other. So it's not that we don't see that there they are, also are in Greece.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e741	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e755	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question no. 3, from the representative of Kjell-Børge Freiberg to the Minister for District and Digitalisation, will have to be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question no. 8, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the oil and energy minister, will be taken up by the representative Hans Inge Myrvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e769	‘There has been an alarming increase in violence in school, where nearly two out of three in a study by the Education Association in Rogaland said that there are more frequent violence episodes in school now than five years ago. Some time ago, the Labour Inspectorate also presented a report which gave cause for concern. What measures does the newly appointed Council of State intend to take to prevent violence in school, to ensure teachers the right to object to issues relating to them, and to provide teachers and other employees with better tools to deal with violence in school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e776	First, I would like to stress that students, teachers and other adults should feel safe when they are at school. The aim is to avoid violence, threats and insecurity. Further studies, including: from Rogaland, unfortunately, shows that it's not always like this. There are no simple solutions to violence in school, and we therefore need to work on a wide range of measures. I will continue the long-term work on improving the learning environment, strengthening multidisciplinary cooperation and increasing the quality of special education. In addition, it is important for me to listen to the advice of the municipalities. It is the municipalities and county councils as school owners and employers who have the primary responsibility for a safe school and working environment. The Working Environment Act regulates the working environment of employees. The Working Environment Act requires, inter alia: schools shall have a system for preventing, monitoring and recording violence and threats. I would like to stress that it is important that schools both work preventively and have good routines for what to do when situations arise where students become unbeatable. The challenges each school faces, and what are good solutions, will vary. In some places it will be most effective to work on developing the student’s social skills. In other places, there may be a need to work more systematically to improve the learning environment throughout the class. I therefore believe that the tools need to be developed locally. In order to strengthen local work, national authorities have set up cooperation between five selected municipalities and counties. Through this cooperation, municipalities shall identify good measures to prevent violence at school and share them with other school owners. This work is well under way. The use of coercion and power to pupils shall be the last resort. We know, however, that situations will arise where employees experience that they have to use coercion against students. The use of coercion and power in school is not regulated today. In NOW 2019: 23 New Training Act is proposed to introduce legal rules on the use of coercion in schools. The aim of the proposal is to avert damage, improve legal certainty and contribute to increased transparency and thus also raise awareness of the use of coercion. The Department of Knowledge is now working on a follow-up to the NOU, and will send a proposal at the hearing in the spring of 2021. The government aims to present a bill to the Stortinget in the spring of 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e801	I thank you for the answer, and I fully agree with the Council of State that this is not an easy problem to address. At the same time, I would like to recall the rather worrying development. There was a case from Moss this week where a compared figure from 2016. There were only 266 deviations, and it had grown by 14 pst. Then one looked at the 2018 figures. I would like to challenge the Council of State a little bit more on whether there is any concrete national action that can be taken, for some of the things that have been throughout the report of the Labour Inspectorate, is that one does not even report deviations, that there is a lack of tools to follow up the deviations, that one does not have a good enough school system for reporting deviations, and that it is followed up with concrete measures, such as: have been shown to be much better in the health care system. Will the Council of State look at national action to ensure such a better system of tools?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e806	Reporting is very important to be able to work with a problem. The fact that people are telling us about a problem and telling us about it is important that we can get to grips with it at all. I think there's going to be a more awareness of this in many parts of our schoolwork, and I'm glad. I also hope that when we get a new law that regulates this, you will have a greater awareness of it. But school violence is kind of a lot of different challenges. There may be violence in a youth environment brought into a school environment, bullying situations that end up in violent situations, and there may be anger related to a youth environment targeted at teachers, for example. These are a lot of different things, and they have to be handled in a slightly different way. That's why we want to gather the best possible experience from around the country on how this can be done. Strong consciousness makes you manage to change this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e811	I would also like to think that with the developments you see, there is a need for clearer national action and clearer national tools. I feel that the teachers themselves are asking for it, so I hope that the Council of State will look at it. I am pleased that she refers to a new training law, but as the Council of State was involved in its reply, it is first submitted to the Stortinget in 2022. It's quite many years to wait for change. One of the things that teachers have been particularly concerned about is that in some of these cases, especially those dealing with Section 9(A) of the Training Act, the teacher does not have a direct right to object. As I understand it, there is no need for a change in the law to ensure that the teachers are heard in the difficult issues that arise. One may hope that the Council of State will make a change, so that teachers are guaranteed counter-dictation, that one does not have to wait for a new training law to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e816	We'll see about that. It is important to combat violence, but it is also important to do so in a secure manner, and to give all actors the opportunity to speak. But I also want to stress that here we need a local commitment. I myself sat down at the town hall and had responsibility for school, and we had quite a lot of tough violent experiences in that period. Working systematically and breaking up the environments that develop these negative cultures, and trying to think again -- we actually ended up laying down a school to start all over again building a new school environment -- are the kind of grip you have to take locally. It is therefore important that the responsibility lies there. It's good that we get the tools they can use – and a law that guarantees the players in school everyday.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e824	‘According to the SSB, almost 110000 children are now growing up with persistently low household incomes. The SSB writes that the proportion of children in households with persistent low incomes increased from 3.5 pst. in 2013 to 4.6 pst. in 2018. In the municipality of Stavanger, children’s rights have recently been taken out of the income calculation for beneficiaries of social assistance, so that many more children and families benefit from child welfare. Will the Council of State encourage other municipalities to follow the good example of Stavanger, so that many more families and children on a national basis will benefit from a possible increase in child welfare in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e831	On a proposal from the Government of Prop. 1 S for 2020, child benefit is increased by DKK 300 per month for children up to the age of 6 with effect from 1 September 2020. This represents an annual increase of NOK 3600. As revealed by the Granavolden platform, the government will ensure that the increase in child welfare for this group can also benefit families dependent on economic social assistance. As a follow-up to this, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will increase the country’s indicative rates of financial support for living for the categories children 0 to 5 years of age with equivalent amounts to the agreed increase in child benefit per month in addition to normal price adjustment. The representative asked if I would encourage municipalities to follow Stavanger's example. I would like to make it clear here that according to the law the municipalities have the right and obligation to always make individual assessments of needs and to use judgement when measuring social benefits. With the exception of children’s income from work on leisure and school holidays, municipalities also have the right to assess the income base, including whether to include family allowances. It is not natural for me, as the Council of State, to encourage the municipalities to exercise this discretion in a certain way. However, I refer to the above-mentioned change that we are making in the country's indicative rates of economic support for living.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e840	For most people, child confidence is a universal system that benefits everyone. That's why I would like the government's response to be clearer, precisely because there are families who don't get that income and take it as a income base, and that very many municipalities simply save money on those who have the least in our society. We've seen numbers from 2018 point out that this is more than 400 million. NOK that Norwegian municipalities are saving on this scheme, and then the government should take action to change it. The question then arises: why should all families with children in Stavanger receive child welfare, while families with social assistance in e.g. Don't Steinker get child's back?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e847	I want to believe that the answer to that was a good news for a representative of the Socialist Left Party, because the reason why it is now implemented in the municipality of Stavanger, is that a political majority has come to make that change. This is something that municipalities have the opportunity to do. Someone chooses to do it, someone does not choose to do it. I don't think it's just about savings, I also think some municipalities are worried that it might have a bad effect on, for example. incentives to work. But as I said, it is up to the municipalities to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e852	A part on the right-hand side seems to have to test the need for child protection. I don't know if the Council of State means it itself, but it's a legitimate political position to have. In this case, you have the opposite, you reverse the need for child care. Child welfare is taken away from those who need it most. Having universal arrangements is one of the strengths of the Norwegian welfare state. Governments themselves make about 1.4 million. kr and receive, as far as I know, child welfare. That's what SV and I think is good. A social welfare family living in a municipality that does not have that scheme lives in poverty and gets significantly less than everyone in this room. Then my question becomes: does the Council of State think this is fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e859	I don't think the main reason why I, too, as a very, very well-paid government council, receive child welfare, is that it's good and fair as such. The main reason is enough that trying to test the need for child welfare will make it very easy to create an intrigued, complex system that also in worst cases creates so-called poverty traps, i.e. that you lose more money to work, because the good falls away because you've made thresholds for it. So from a purely justice point of view, there are certainly good reasons to just test child welfare, but actually it's a bad idea, because it's impossible to do it without creating poverty traps. There are wage differences in society, and state councils serve very, very well, but I don't think you can compare to a government council salary. We must remember that very many common workers do not serve very well – a cleaner, an unskilled nursery assistant. I am also concerned that there should be no undue difference between those who receive benefits and those who work in a low-income job.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e875	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e883	‘OPS Flekkefjord-Lgågal route is closed due to. tunnel upgrade. Traffic is referred to the old road described by roads24.no as the ‘infamous Kvinesheia’. Traffickers have been patient in the belief that work is done quickly and efficiently. That's not always the case, there's a few shifts working, and the tunnels are often empty. According to the Transport Economic Institute, the socio-economic cost of the bypass is 250 million. crowns, which exceed the total of the contract. How much will it cost to complete the tunnel upgrade and will a faster implementation be initiated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e890	The representative Meininger Saudland asks an appropriate question. Let me briefly say that the tunnel upgrade will cost 175 million. NOK, and then I'll take a little bit of history in this matter. Storting representative Ingunn Foss asked a written question about the tunnel upgrade last December. State Council Dale answered the question on 20 December 2019. In the reply from Dale State Council, it was clarified that the upgrade is necessary to comply with the Tunnel Safety Regulation and that the work is carried out in accordance with an agreement with the OPS Allfarveg Company. In connection with the question from the representative Foss, the state road authority was asked to re-assess the possibility of speeding up completion without conflicting with the provisions of the labour law. The state road system has been in dialogue with Allfarveg on a possible faster progress. It has not been possible to reach agreement on faster progress within the contractual financial framework and deadlines. All Colour has a contractual deadline of 15 June 2020. Then the traffic shall be able to resume at E39 as normal. The road authority of the State states that a member of the organisation responsible for OPS conducts the tunnel upgrade as effectively as possible within the limits of the contract. Both the Swedish Road Administration and the company focus on completing the work as quickly as possible. As a basis for Gisle Meininger Saudland's question, one of them is TØI, which has estimated the socio-economic consequences of the transition to a size of 250 million. kr. TØ’s calculation is based on information from the NRK South, which is not fully quality checked. Unfortunately, the NRK's basis is not quite correct. Extra run length is e.g. not 30 km, but 15.6 km. The state road authority has pointed this out to both TØI and NRK Sørlanden. So the image is very close to the way it is produced, although there is no doubt that periods of circulation cause significant inconvenience to road users. This is an important tunnel upgrade work, and the installations that will be done here are important. Of course, there's got to be a whole thing before this is in place. It is also true that the statements in the Work Environment Act do not allow Sunday and night work unless it is necessary. The state road authority has made an assessment of the necessity for night work on this project. Here's the state and whether it's property that's being assessed. Derogations have been made for parts of the route, including: The Fosseland Tunnel and the Fedahei Tunnel. Unfortunately, that is the contract we have to adhere to, and I see no alternative to action other than that of Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e905	I thank you for your answer. Since the Council of State has family in the South, I expect him to know that this is a significant matter that is being discussed a lot. However, I would like to ask the Council of State if there is something he can do now when the work is in progress, in order to remedy the negative consequences — given that industry has a great deal of extra costs, and of the road safety picture, how heavy transport goes through small centres, etc. Is there anything the Council of State can do, or is the race laid, anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e912	The representative Meininger Saudland may have run this orbit more times than I've done, but I've also done it a few times in the last year, and I understand the disadvantages this creates. There is considerable extra time, and even if some repairs have been made on the road to make it a better rerun path, it is a very demanding rerun path. I also understand the perspective that we would have liked to have done this more quickly, but I thought the Council of State Dale took some initiative to just check this out. Then it is actually going to be a new contract, and then there will be a significant extra cost. It is also such that the legislation we have attached to night and weekend work does not prove to be effective in this type of contract. Then, unfortunately, there are few possibilities for doing so, even though, as I said, I thought it was a suitable and good question the representative Meininger Saudland has asked me today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e921	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State and for his initiative to check whether it can be done more quickly. The last thing I want to address is the principle, and it doesn't necessarily apply to this specific case. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable for public authorities, such as the State Road Administration, to save money by pushing the cost of an imposed road rehabilitation onto road users, even though it is likely that more money and speeding up the process are economically viable? And will the Council of State take the initiative to change this so that in the future there will be no such situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e928	I think it's a good supplementary question I get, because there's no doubt that in this case – now maybe not 250 million. kr quite correctly – has a significant cost that this work goes over so long. I think we should look at it more closely also when we enter into these types of contracts, whether that is how we can get this done faster. I think that part of the Agder region is strongly influenced by the transition that has been going on for so long. Can we get it done faster, I think it's a significant improvement for society, and that's what I think I'm going to include myself in the dialogue with the State Road Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e935	The representative pointed out in the question that the Council of State has family in the South, and the president would just add that the Council of State also has family in Sunnhordland. The next question is from the representative Geir Pollestad. The representative Pollestad hasn't yet come to meet state councillor Bollestad, so we can move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e951	The Management Board of OsloMet will discuss tomorrow the question of whether the university wishes to extend the lease on Kjeller. This decision shall be taken by the Management Board itself. Universities and higher education institutions have a separate responsibility for deciding their own place of study structure. The places where an institution is to study, how education and research are to be organised and what is to be offered where is part of the responsibility of the Board of Directors of the institution. It is the governments that know best about the institution's needs, limitations and opportunities. On a general basis, I am concerned that universities should both assess how best to provide high-quality education and research, and at the same time train candidates as the labour and business community in the region. Universities and higher education institutions have a responsibility to adapt education provision to the needs of society. Universities and colleges have extensive and close cooperation with regional and local employment and business. The university and higher education sectors must ensure and cooperate with regional employment and industry, regional authorities and other development actors in the region in order to contribute to the further development of the region. Regional contact and engagement in different areas of interaction, for example within business clusters, is important to strengthen knowledge flow and develop the capacity to cooperate between business and knowledge environments. Stakeholders should work jointly to ensure that this cooperation can be further developed within the current and, where appropriate, amended framework. In the event of changes in the study location structure, institutions should also consider the possible consequences for cooperation with the working and social life of the region and how the societal mission can be carried out by an altered presence in the region. In general, I believe that digitalisation and technological development will in the future provide institutions with new opportunities for knowledge production and cooperation with their surrounding countries. The presence of universities and higher education institutions in a region is about more than physical infrastructure and where the places of study are located. The association and presence of institutions shall take place, inter alia: on participation in cooperation and knowledge production arenas. The 2018 Long-term Research and Higher Education Plan clearly expects from the government that universities and higher education institutions should have a clear role in the development of local and regional ecosystems for commercialisation and economic development. This refers to the importance of cooperation with the labour and business sectors in education, for example: through practice placement and cooperation on bachelor's and master's tasks. Such cooperation is important in order to develop the capacity for conversion and innovation. The evaluation of any new study location structure by the institutions involves difficult reflections on how best to use resources to carry out the societal task, so that they train candidates and produce development work as jobs and businesses in the region demand. I trust that universities and colleges, which know the skills needs of their neighbourhood, have the best conditions for organising their activities in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e970	We have to see the big picture, which the council itself is concerned about. Developments in the Great Oslo and regional plans point to a major need for competence, innovation and education in the area. Everything suggests that the need is for OsloMet to be and further develop its presence. The basis for the merger was similar developments in the Lillestrøm area and in Oslo. Physical presence we know is important for recruiting students and candidates into the workplace afterwards. Is there anything that suggests that the need is less now than when the merger took place? The structural reform of the government was intended to strengthen the academy also in Rome, not just in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e975	It is not the case that the Ministry of Knowledge approves the file of the Boards of Directors of the institutions. What OsloMet has at the same time assured us, and we are going to follow closely, is that if the board decides to terminate the rental relationship at Kjeller, it will do so in line with the investigation instructions and the construction and rental instructions. This also means that such considerations must be taken into account. As I also said in my answer, there are many ways to cooperate with local and regional business and employment. Although it is now on Kjeller, it has a consequence for other parts of Romerike, or Follo for that matter, that we have OsloMet lying there. I am concerned that this should not go beyond the cooperation you have with business and employment in the region, but this is something we must come back to when the board has dealt with its case tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e982	With all the renegotiations of leases to which the institution is also facing in Oslo, there are a huge number of uncertainties for the areas available to the institution. There is uncertainty about moving to Oslo in terms of study quality, study environment and physical space for employees and students. On the other hand, there is well-being among students and trade unions at Kjeller today. I wonder: How much uncertainty do students and employees need to know and express before the Council of State possibly enters and requires clearer clarifications on their behalf for the further development of OsloMet and a potential closure of Kjeller?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e987	I have great respect for the fact that the kind of change – or discussion about change – that is now taking place in OsloMet, can create uncertainty both for employees and for students. What is important to say is that if the board decides tomorrow, when they deal with this matter, to terminate the lease on Kjeller, they will start a difficult investigation. One of the questions is precisely this: the premises available in Oslo. What the principal at OsloMet has drawn out is that they want to reduce their area, just to get more power out of them. This applies to the employees. We're going to follow it closely, but the reason why it's a little difficult now to start answering as if the board's been dealing with it is that they're going to do it tomorrow. This means that once they have made their decision – and we will follow it closely – we will also follow closely that the investigation instructions are followed closely, and that good alternatives are given if they are to leave Kjeller.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e995	‘OsloMet is an important research institution in a number of disciplines of great importance to future challenges, including renewable energy, health technology and social security, in which OsloMet cooperates closely with regional business. To what extent does the Council of State see the value of maintaining close and long-term cooperation with regional business?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1002	I have to start by referring to my previous answer when it comes to the fact that the board of directors at OsloMet tomorrow will deal with the question of whether the university wants to extend the rental contract at Kjeller, and that it is the board that has to make that decision itself. The size clearly informed the government when they dealt with the structural message in the previous period, that in the future, as it is today, it must be up to the institutions themselves and their governments to assess what an appropriate study structure implies. It also obliges me as the Council of State to follow some rules. Universities and higher education institutions have a comprehensive societal mission, such as: involves: training candidates of high relevance to the needs of the labour market; carry out research and development at a high international level contribute to innovation, value creation and regional development; cooperate with and transfer knowledge to business and general government; In the current long-term plan for research and higher education, the government is clear that we will facilitate more research and development in both the business and public sectors. At the same time, we will facilitate research-based business and better interaction between academia, industry and the public sector. The role of institutions as a regional knowledge actor in interaction with the surrounding society is important to ensure and strengthen the relevance of research and education. It is essential to provide qualified candidates with skills that meet the needs of the labour market — both nationally and regionally. The long-term plan clearly expects from the government that universities and colleges should have a clear role in the development of local and regional ecosystems for commercialisation and industrial development. Increased mobility of employees between industry and educational institutions is also important for networking, building skills and strengthening the knowledge flow between sectors. Universities and colleges have extensive and close cooperation with regional and local employment and business. Regional contact and engagement in different areas of interaction, for example within business clusters, is important to strengthen knowledge flow and develop the capacity to cooperate between business and knowledge environments. Stakeholders should work jointly to further develop this cooperation within the current and, where appropriate, amended framework. The presence of universities and higher education institutions as a knowledge actor in a region depends on more than physical infrastructure and the location of the place of study. The association and presence of institutions shall take place, inter alia: on participation in different areas of cooperation and knowledge production. The social mission of universities and colleges, which also deals with cooperation and transfer of knowledge to business, remains constant. Universities, universities of science and higher education meet today with equal expectations of profiling and of contributing to regional development. I expect our higher education institutions to continue developing their long-term cooperation with national, regional and local employment and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1036	There were a lot of words from the government council, but what it comes down to in this case is whether it will help to strengthen or weaken the regional research environment and the business community, the contact with them from OsloMet, if you choose to put down the activity at Kjeller. At Kjeller there are today many important environments. OsloMet has his activity there today. In addition, for example: The Institute of Energy Engineering, which has important research in some of the same fields, the Swedish Defence Research Institute and the Norwegian Institute of Air Research – to name a few. OsloMet doesn't live in a vacuum. For example, the Ministry’s letter of allocation, which just refers to the Granavolden platform, provides guidance on strengthening the interaction between business, academia and the innovation and research environment. Furthermore, the Ministry has also concluded a development agreement with the institution. Does the Council of State think that a closure on Kjeller would be in line with that development agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1043	I'm sorry if the representative experienced too many words, but we try by the government to answer as best we can the questions we get – and we have an assigned speaking time that we like to use. But what does it boil down to? Well, first of all, it boils down to our ambition that higher education institutions should also cooperate with regional employment. That's why I come to the autumn with a big message about work relevance, that is, how we can make sure that our institutions, which have many societal tasks, are closely connected to the needs of the working life locally where they are located, but also nationally. The second is that precisely the location of a study site does not need to be completely decisive given the very cooperation that the representative has outlined. There are examples that it's still going to be a close collaboration with. So the question is where to find the place of study. It will deal with tomorrow, and before they have concluded, it is difficult for me to answer all the eventualities if they decide to make a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1052	In terms of location, the letter of assignment to OsloMet also says something about campus development. In concrete terms, the allocation letter for 2020 states: ‘The Ministry notes that guidelines for the location of state workplaces and government service production have been revised.’ It was done last November. In addition, it says: «Institutions must take account of the guidelines when locating and before the Governing Board takes its decisions.» Thus, the current Council of State is responsible for the follow-up of these guidelines by its sector. This was written in the letter of assignment to OsloMet. If it doesn't affect the location of Kjeller, it doesn't matter in any context. Can the Council of State confirm what is stated in the letter of allocation, that the Board of Directors is responsible for such an investigation before a decision is taken, and will it ensure that it has taken place and that the guidelines are followed up within its sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1069	It is absolutely right that we present quite extensive letters of assignment. We also have development agreements with the institutions. The division of labour for which I am and which has also been decided by the Storting is quite clear. We make quite clear demands on quality, student follow-up – all these questions. But with regard to the organisation of the place where teaching places should be, where the campus should be, it is up to the institutions to decide for themselves. This has been decided explicitly by the Storting. In fact, it was only the representative of Gælsvik's party who voted against, so that's how he feels about it. Nevertheless, what we're saying is that now the board is going to deal with this matter, and then it's going to be investigated after the investigation manual. It also means that they need to make visible how they can have these cooperations, follow the letter of allocation, etc. I just think that we need to first see how the board deals with this matter, and then we will follow up all the questions – which the representative will certainly also ask me again. But first the board has to deal with the matter. And where campus should be, is up to the institutions themselves to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1076	We go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1084	«The cover sheet has referred to a matter in which a farmer has made a mistake in submitting a request for a production premium. I am aware that there are several similar cases in which farmers are now at risk of losing hundreds of thousands of dollars because of relatively small errors in submitting such an application. Will the Council of State put the concerns of individuals ahead of the concerns of the system and see to it that these farmers are paid out production support?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1091	It is economically demanding to be in a situation where you have planned the operation on the basis of a production grant that you think you have applied for, but then you are told that the money is not paid because the application has not actually been sent. The time-limits for the submission of applications for production grants are primarily necessary for farmers themselves to receive subsidies as early as possible. The Directorate-General for Agriculture paid more than 10 billion in February at the latest. kr in production and replacement subsidies. The deadlines for applying for production subsidies were set in the agricultural settlement in 2016. The parties then agreed that the deadlines should be absolute. Time-limits are also necessary to ensure effective processing and control in order to obtain the basic material for the agricultural negotiations. The Directorate-General for Agriculture has made considerable efforts to facilitate the applicant to meet the deadlines set. Firstly, the application system opens up approx. two weeks before the deadline for the application, so that the applicant has sufficient time to submit the application. Secondly, all undertakings which have applied for production grants the year before are notified to Altin in advance of each application period. At the same time, SMS or e-mail alerts are given that the entity has received such information. From the 2020 application round, two additional SMS notifications are introduced to applicants who are late. This will give farmers who think they have submitted the application, but who have not done so, a reminder to submit the application for a final deadline. In common with the matters I have been made aware of, the applicants believe that they have been involved in the application system, but not ready to submit the application in the correct manner. I therefore believe that there is reason to consider whether the deadlines should have been more modest for companies that we see have been in the application system before the final deadline. That's why I'd like to ask the Agriculture Directorate to look at that kind of thing again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1102	There's something about what's most important – is that the system, or is that the people? And who are we politicians put into this? I can admit that I have done wrong, I have forgotten things, and I also hope that the Minister of Agriculture and Food can remember times when she has forgotten things or not done everything as it should be. Here it is that people have been inside, they have believed they have delivered, and they have received a receipt. I will admit that I get receipts by SMS, but I will not open the attachment and read it. I also get documents in Altin that I don't go in and check quality, and I don't read Google's standard terms. So my question is, does the Council of State see that this case is untimely when it gets hundreds of thousands of dollars in consequences for those who believe they have done the right thing, but who have made a mistake?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1109	Now I have answered the representative that in the cases where it appears that one has been in the system, I ask the Agriculture Directorate to look at them again. But it's not a goal to put the system in front of individuals, as the representative Pollestad here suggests. The system is for Norwegian farmers and is designed for Norwegian farmers in order to ensure that the proper production refund is paid as quickly as possible. That's why we have a system. It's not just in terms of production support we have such a system. We're actually doing it in the tax rate as well as in loans for students. This is a requirement to help people get in. Then I'll ask the directorate to look at the applications where we know you've been in the application system. But we have to set the limit somewhere, just to make sure all the 39,500 farmers who have actually done this right, and who are waiting for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1116	I think everyone is a few that we shouldn't run and give money to people who haven't been looking, and who haven't at all made any attempt to search. Here I believe that there is a case where one has tried, and then one has done something wrong. There is a need to have consequences, but the question is, what is the extent of the consequences? I took this up in the Question Time because I want the matter to be resolved, and that the farmers should not lose these money. In that way, I thought there was a positive signal coming, and we'll follow up on this further. There has also been a later look-up in Bondebladt, which shows that there is broad support among the political parties to the view that the consequences are not consistent with the error that has been made. So I'm interpreting what I'm saying here today, so that this case will say solution, and I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1125	I have replied several times that I have informed the directorate. At the same time, we have application deadlines to meet those who are applying – not for the system – that the administration is constantly making possible for us to actually get. Then we're concerned that it's the seventh and last responsibility of the applicants, and that's what it has to be. But where we now see that they've been inside the system and thought that they've done the job they were supposed to do, we're doing what we can to make sure that the system works, and we're looking at those things again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1135	This question, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is raised by the representative Hans Inge Myrvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1140	I hope the Council of State finds it convenient that I am here in Kjersti Toppe's absence. But I would like to stress that the content of the question is absolutely interested in the signatures. The question is: ‘With massive resistance from the municipalities, the government will scrap away NVE’s proposal for a national framework for shore-based wind power. NVE pointed out 13 areas that the directorate thinks are the most suitable for wind power on land in Norway. 98 municipalities have area within the 13 areas. In the hearing round, 56 municipalities have black. 49 municipalities clearly said no to wind turbines, among them all the municipalities in the Western counties that are covered by the national framework. Will the government respect the massive local resistance to wind power expansion in these areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1149	As you know, the government has not gone further with the NVE’s proposal for a national framework for wind power designating areas as suitable for shore-based wind power. A large majority of municipalities did not wish their municipality to be included in these areas. The proposal for a national framework also contained a comprehensive knowledge base, which is a good reason for us to take it further. At the hearing, the municipalities provided useful reflections on the further development of wind power. The Ministry of Oil and Energy was given an idea of how to improve both process and content concession treatment of wind power. Many municipalities also pointed out that more renewable energy production is important in order to facilitate the electrification of more and more social sectors and to stimulate industrial development in the districts. Wind power has created debate. There are many questions about wind power in the future. How are we going to get a good enough local and regional anchoring? How should we address different environmental requirements and ensure that those who live and travel in the areas that may be affected are properly taken into account? What are the benefits, both local and national, of wind power? These are issues for which we need a clear and predictable policy. The Government is therefore aiming at providing a roll-out message on the wind concession system before the summer. The Communication will contain themes such as deadlines, participation and involvement, impact assessments and how best to ensure environmental and nature considerations. Today, I invited you to a wide-ranging wind power recording meeting, which we unfortunately had to cancel as a result of the situation with the corona virus. But I also plan to visit some of the areas with the most wind power expansion in the country. Then I will listen to those who were most affected during the different stages of concessional treatment, and learn more about the local effects after an extension. We are now in a phase with a lot of wind power expansion. It's a consequence of concessions given under both this government and the previous one. It is linked to the electrical certificate system, for which there has been broad political outreach. In the years after 2021, there will be little wind power expansion, simply because new projects have not come far enough in the process of gaining a concession. I look forward to discussing how in the years to come we will achieve the best possible system for the concession treatment of new wind power projects, i.e. a system that enables us to balance important considerations in a good way and ensure a solid local and regional anchoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1166	That's where I'm tracking a little bit. The Councils of State consider that the basis of knowledge in this framework should in some way be burdensome. And much of the basis for this question is precisely because the situation that has arisen since the government scrapped the national wind framework plan is quite unclear and incomprehensible. How and to what extent will the municipalities and the local government participate in the new concessional treatments? And not least, what policy will the Council of State and the Government base in the further development of wind power on land?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1171	Although there was a great deal of resistance to the national framework as such and to the various areas that were designated as suitable and less suitable for development, I feel that there is a broad consensus that the knowledge base of that work is useful for the future, no matter how it should be. But that's also exactly why I have now notified a big message, because I feel that a big message is the best way to ensure a wide, open process. It also gives all the parties at Stortinget an opportunity to participate in that policy development. I believe – and wish – that local anchoring is important. It is very rare that concessions have been given against local wishes, and what the municipality believes is incredibly important in the future, but we also need to have the other interests in this matter. I am pleased to discuss that message when it comes to Stortinget. We have already announced different things we are looking at in this regard, and I am sure that we can get a good policy for the future that ensures that we take care of both, that is, that it is still possible to deploy wind power in Norway, but that we also have local anchoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1178	I listen to the Council of State, and I think it's very wise to come to the Storting and get these questions anchored, and it'll also be entirely decisive for potential future wind power. The council itself mentioned this meeting today, which was a recording meeting, and which is now cancelled. At the same time, the work goes its way. Is the Council of State certain that all these recordings that were to be presented at the meeting today will actually get the anchoring that is necessary, in the further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1185	I think, of course, it was a very bad thing that we didn't have that meeting. I also have plans to travel regionally to have meetings elsewhere than in Oo, to say it like that. Many have also sent written recordings. It's everyone's welcome to do, and I'm going to read them carefully and make sure that we get a good involvement in the process also in the future. I think it's absolutely crucial. Now the Storting will also have the opportunity to have its own process. Of course, it is quite possible and desirable that Stortinget also has consultations on this matter when it comes, and I am not in doubt that we will all be heard. I think it's good that the Center Party also has a commitment to wind power. I might wish that also the commitment that there is still good reason – and need – to be able to expand some more wind power in the future was a little more present in what the Center Party is out communicating, for example. that this is important value creation for the districts, it means a lot for both farmers and landowners. I think that might be a perspective that is a little bit missing from the approach chosen by the Central Party in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1194	Case No. 2 is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-11.ana.ud187e1208	There is no record available. Thus, today's map is finished. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
