ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e44	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Frank Bakke-Jensen, Dag Inge Ulstein and Sveinung Rotevatn will meet for oral Question Time. Two of the three announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Espen Barth Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e53	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. In previous discussions here in the Chamber, we have discussed the EU's new classification system for green investment, the so-called taxonomy. This is a very important measure in terms of Europe's green giving, because it guides all the private capital that now wants to seek more green ports, green investments, and thus provides a standardised picture of what is really green. In this way, many home - sluggish solutions are replaced in the same way. It's a very positive development. I already know that the Council of States and I agree that this is an interesting and important part of what the EU is doing. But then it turned out that in some areas this hit Norway in a slightly strange way, not least in the issue of Norwegian hydropower. So in the first edition of this taxonomy, or this classification system, you didn't look at hydropower as long-term, ecological and green at all, because of the major natural interventions. The first draft described this as ‘transitional’. Something has been improved, including: after the Norwegian hydropower industry, which means that the term ‘transitional’ is no longer used, but it is nevertheless that the taxonomy facilitates little investment in new hydropower, because it is associated with the natural interventions already taking place. It appears that Norwegian competence and Norwegian experience – which are quite unique, because we are the large hydropower country of Norway – have not been sufficiently present when this has been developed in the EU. I would like to ask the Council of State to what extent Norway has been involved in influencing taxonomy in this field, and whether he shares my concern that this has come out a little unlucky with regard to future Norwegian hydropower investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e64	It hasn't been suggested that taxonomy is the big "buzz word" in Norwegian politics for the time being, but it should be, because I agree with Barth Eide that this is an incredibly important work that is also highly relevant to Norway. As part of the European Green Deal, which will affect almost every sector in Norway, this also comes here. The taxonomy is not meant to say anything about what it is allowed to invest in or support or what one must not support and even prohibit, etc. The point is to say something about and find a kind of common starting point for what is green, very positive investments that can thus be useful as a guide for example. funds, private investors and others. All this work supports the whole heart of Norway. We're positive for what we think is wise. There is an important part of the solution in the future. Of course, we have given our contribution to how to design the taxonomy, the principle on which to base it. When it comes to the exact type of investment and sectors that will be covered and stamped as green, it is the Commission that has put forward a proposal. It's now listening. Of course, from the government's side, we'd like to consider whether and if so what we're going to record in that hearing. Your positions may not have been landed yet. We also need to study this more closely, how it meets Norwegian conditions. The work is under way. But the basic principle here is that it makes sense to say something about what is good, green investment and thus give, for example, the possibility of prioritising it, we believe it is good, and we believe it can help to strengthen the green transition Europe is going through and Norway is definitely going through.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e73	As I said at the outset, I fully share the enthusiasm of the Council of State for the very idea of creating such a classification system – let it be clear. But here too lies the devil in the details. The current draft is quite problematic. Governments say that's what you work with the government. This is probably a good idea, because the deadline for the hearing is 17 December – that is, in a few weeks’ time. So I hope that work goes pretty fast. I would like to know if the Council of State agrees that there are a number of things on the table that are linked in particular to Norwegian hydropower, which we have to tackle. Otherwise, we can end up undermining what we're working on in this room, that's to be able to facilitate the further development of the hydroelectric power plants we already have, i.e. with limited natural interventions. Is it not the case that it is very different from doing so in Europe to a hydropower plant in Norway, which is already producing and storing a lot of electricity, and that it is important that our competence in this process of consultation is brought into this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e80	It's so that in a lot of areas Norway is very similar to our closest neighboring country, and then there's another area where we're getting something apart. Of course, it could be easier to take a height for that kind of thing if a participant was fully involved in these processes, but as the representative Barth Eide is painfully aware, Norway is not a member of the EU. On the other hand, we have opportunities to contribute, and we have done so in this context as well. For example, Norway is an observer in the EU Commission’s group discussing resilient funding, including taxonomy. It's true that the deadline for recording, December 18th, is approaching, and we're now working well in the government to clarify positions and whether and what we're going to record. Hydropower is a problem, there are also other issues relating to wind power, such as investments in carbon capture and storage, which relate to investments in zero-emission supply ships, for example. – So here are a number of things we need to go deeper into, and then we have to come back to Norwegian positions in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e89	I have some experience trying to influence the EU itself, including: as Minister of Foreign Affairs and for many years as Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In all the European messages, which both the current government and the previous government made, we have all agreed that it was about being early and influencing in a formative phase, because then Norwegian expertise can be listened to when we have something to contribute, and we choose our blows. If we wait for the EU to be completed, the train is usually gone, and then it is difficult to come from Norway and convert. I have to express a concern that we have not been sufficiently present in the debates that concern us very much. I am therefore very concerned that we are now getting a clear signal that you are really using the two weeks that are left to tackle this in a way that can have an effect. If we don't, I think we'll get a lot of surprises next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e96	We are very present to influence important processes in the EU. The last thing I did before the March shutdown was to have a meeting with the Vice-President of the European Commission in Brussels, Frans Timmermans, on precisely important climate-related issues for Norway. Of course, we participate in everything we can now with the digital participation frameworks, osb. We've got our early out here, too. Already now we have on hearing suggestions on how this is to be done in Norway. As I said, we took part in the working groups. Now this is on the listener. Then it's like everyone has the ability to input into how this is going to be designed, and we're working on it as well. The taxonomy is part of a very important health, namely the European Green Deal, which concerns a huge number of sectors. The main responsibility of the government is to promote Norwegian interests and coordinate positions. But I know that a lot of government councils are now working well on how we can ensure that the European Green Deal is implemented in the best possible way, most offensively, and cut out as much as possible both in Europe and Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e105	Finally, something about it, because, in addition to influencing what the EU comes with, it is also very important that this is made well known in Norway and not least in Norwegian food and labour. I think it's quite right, what the Council of State started with, that it might not be taxonomy you talk about most in Norway, but that it might actually be, because this can actually change the framework conditions for a lot of what we're doing. So what strategy does the government now have in order to make this more known and to ensure that those directly affected also get a full understanding of how this that is now developing in the EU can be exploited – not only to end with things, but also to start with and invest in the right things in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e110	As the representative knows, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs had the half-yearly EU and EEA spending a little while ago, I was also present, especially to talk about the European Green Deal, which also had a special focus on this issue. Great Britain may not be what it is when it spreads to the big team of the people, but it says something about how much weight the government puts on this issue now. At least I have no shortage of queues of stakeholders, stakeholder organisations and companies in front of my office that would like to talk about the European Green Deal. I think the business community now knows how important this is for maritime industries, for agriculture, for our industry. We promote offensive positions, things that take care of Norwegian interests. I would like to say that it is in Norway's best interest for a European Green Deal to be implemented at a high level of ambition, so that, together with our close neighbours, we can become as competitive as possible in the green shift, develop world-leading technologies and create jobs and cut emissions – and we should do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e115	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e121	I don't think the representative Barth Eide got a good answer to his question about what the government will do. Instead of talking about taxonomy and Green New Deal, we should talk about the realities, and the reality is that power companies like Swedish Vattenfall, Finnish Fortum and German Uniper are accusing, among other things. the Swedish government for having slept an hour. Much also suggests that the Norwegian government has done so, with 14 days remaining until the deadline. They claim that other countries have seen the agenda in the design of the EU's new classification system for sustainable finance. In one case on December 1st, Secretary of State Tony Tiller of the Ministry of Oil and Energy does not seem to be particularly concerned about the consequences of hydropower being outside the EU's green criteria. Does the Council agree with Secretary of State Tony Tiller that it is not so dangerous, or is the Council of State concerned about the consequences of this for Norwegian hydropower and the industry that builds its production on the clean energy from there? Can we expect the government now to stand up for clean Norwegian hydropower and against far-off proposals and decisions from Brussels that are not adapted to Norwegian reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e128	It is very good to right that the Centre Party considered it important to be present in pan-European discussions in order to agree on pan-European legislation and take care of Norwegian interests in those contexts. That's what I thought the Center Party should be more concerned about, because it's very important. Norway is a part of this. The EEA Agreement is at the bottom – at least until the Central Party possibly gets its way on that issue – and that means that we work closely with our closest neighbours every day. I'm not in agreement that we haven't been on this matter. We have shared actively, at least as far as the EEA presence gives us room for it. We have developed Norwegian interests, and we are in order for one to carry out a work here. We think it's good for Norway, good for Europe. Where we are now, we are at the level of detail of what has just been sent on the phone, and which one is going to give feedback every once in a while. Of course, there are many details there that are important. Therefore, we are now working well to see what consequences it may have for Norway and Norway's commercial interests, thus developing Norwegian positions on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e135	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e140	The centre party is absolutely committed to taking care of Norwegian interests and to use the space available, where there is room for opportunity. However, it is true that the Deputy Minister of Finance in Sweden, Per Bolund, of the Environment Party, is concerned and has stated that if hydropower and bioenergy are referred to as ‘non-sustainable’, there is a risk that it will be more difficult to finance projects that provide more renewable energy in the future. It doesn't seem like the Norwegian government is as concerned as the Swedish, so let me ask again: is the Swedish government wrong? If this is complicated by EU legislation, will the government take the initiative to veto it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e145	Let me remind you of the basics here. It's not that the taxonomy says anything about what it's allowed to invest in, what it's not allowed to invest in, whether or not to build water power in Norway. That's what we decide. It determines Norwegian investors themselves. It determines Norwegian municipalities and power companies themselves. What taxonomy says is, is how we're going to classify different things, almost as a guide to some investors. It might be very useful, so there's a reason we spend a lot of time on this, because we think it's wise to have that kind of tool. But I don't think one should create the impression that it's just what's classified as green according to taxonomy, which is sensible investment, or which is resilient investment. It's not that what's not classified as green here will necessarily be brown, so to speak. However, it is clear that one imposes strict requirements on investments that really need to accelerate and drive through the green shift, and that may be useful. As I said, we work with Norwegian positions, we study carefully what the consequences are for Norwegian business, and I am sure that the Swedish also do for their business. So we're going to stick to the deadline that's set.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e150	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e155	It looks like the state council thinks he can stay standing, and that's probably as good. For the Progress Party, it has always been decisive that we conduct an effective climate policy that cuts emissions and does not move Norwegian jobs. I see the Minister for Climate and Environment as a politician who has been busy with efficient resource use and not least that climate policy has contributed to real cutbacks. What the cottage has unfortunately shown us, however, is that the two things in combination he seemed to be less busy with. I would like to refer to some of the budgetary issues that the Progress Party has sent to the Ministry of Climate and Environment in the autumn, for example: What climate action can a person implement at a cost of less than DKK 500 per tonne? How many tonnes of CO 2 expect the State budget as one has proposed to cut CO 2 emissions, and what is the cost of each of these measures? What kind of climate action is there in the State budget that has greenhouse gas emission reductions as its main rationale? The answer to all questions is that there is no answer. There is no answer as to whether climate policy is effective and effective. In view of this, the government has announced to Stortinget that they will deliver the climate message based on Climate Change. The question then is: can we expect that the distribution of the impacts of greenhouse gas emissions and the costs of various measures is significantly better than the government's own draft budget and the climate change programme, which came earlier this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e170	Let me start by expressing my joy at the fact that the government and the Progress Party are now some about a budget for next year that is record ambitious in the field of climate. It shall contribute to significant spills, to take care of nature and to take Norway forward. I understand the desire to know if the policy actually works. Whether policies actually work is usually easier to evaluate in retrospect rather than in advance. If we look at it in the post-war perspective, we see that politics does it. The Government Party and the Progress Party have been involved in policy for several years, and for several years climate change emissions have declined. They are now at their lowest level of 27 years. Policy is powerful in all sectors. Why does he do that? Yeah, that's because of the actions we're implementing. It is because of the electric car policy, because of the biofuels policy and because of the green investments made in green shipping — for example, the many river ferries that Dale called for when he was Minister of Transport — that are effective measures. And now we're going to do more. Having said all that, there is a difference between climate action. For some people it's very easy to calculate how much they want to cut. For example, when it applies to the part of biofuels we choose to claim, we know very clearly how much this will cut next year, and how much it costs. Other measures may be more demanding, e.g.: to give support to Enova, which is our state agency to invest in climate technology. They get about three billion. kr per year to do so, for example, the world's largest floating sea wind farm in Tampen, and important investments in homes and homes. We don't know what applications Enova will approve for next year – that's what they decide. But when we look back over the last few years, we know that they support very good climate action. So I'm for that kind of use of money. I think it helps to support business. I know that business wants that for itself, and I know that it has given good results. But exactly what results it will give next year, before the applications are approved, it may be difficult to answer. Actually, I don't think the representative Dale can think of a good way to give a precise answer either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e179	In any case, it is easy to give clear leadership to prioritize the implementation of climate action as a means of reducing emissions in Norway and not moving jobs out of the country, which will start with the cheapest measures. For example, we could contribute to the realization of new climate forest in Norway, 50 kroner/tonne on average in increased carbon bonds, directly at an extremely low cost, instead of wasting money on measures that cost over 1,500 kroner/tonne. So it is possible to implement an effective climate policy that cuts emissions and does not move jobs. But then the question is, why won't the Council of State do that? Why does a single policy seem to give you an idea? – And we’re a few about it, many of the grips we’ve done have proved to work. However, we still have no control over the effectiveness and incentive of the new measures to make sense of tax money and create new jobs in Norway. And that's the question, because it didn't answer the government's question: can we expect that this will be significantly better when the government delivers its climate report than one has given the impression through climate cure and they answer one has given the Storting in the fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e186	The size can expect that when I present a climate report, the government will have done a thorough job of calculating how much we think we will cut through the various measures, and the details that we think are important in order for the Storting to join those proposals. We're very concerned about that. I'm also busy implementing the measures that give the most effect. I'm trying to pick low-hanging fruits first, and that's exactly what the mission was for Climate Change, because Climate Change divides its different measures into what one believes are the cheapest ones, the ones in the middle category, and the ones that are the most expensive. For this reason, climate change is a very useful measure. But it's not like all parties, for example. always means that the cheapest measures should be taken anyway. They can have other sides. For example, one of the cheapest and most effective measures outlined in the Climate Action Plan is to eat less red meat. It's been obvious to the Progress Party that they don't think it's a good idea to do it. Another effective measure is the climate forest project, which the Progress Party cuts into its alternative state budget. So there is a political point to take. I think all parties do that, including the party of the representative Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e197	There will be follow-up questions – first Terje Halleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e203	Norway has concluded an agreement on climate change with the EU on emissions reductions by 2030. The agreement means that Norway participates on equal terms with EU countries. Measures to achieve emission reductions are comprehensive and will affect many areas. Some measures are low-hanging and low-cost, others are more inclusive and also provide us with a technology gain that we can later extract in both jobs and value creation. But there will still be areas where it will be difficult to reduce, while at the same time it will cost very much for taxpayers. The agreement with the EU opens in order to buy allowances from EU countries, which the government says they will not give priority. Can the Council of State tell us why, in the name of heaven, we have concluded an agreement that we have not intended to use the upside of? And is there any other benefit to the agreement with the EU than access to allowances and the allowance market?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e210	The agreement we have with the EU on joint implementation is extremely important, because he sees the level of ambition, he ensures that we cut across what is our common market. Not least – and I believe that Halleland’s representative is busy – there are equivalent conditions of competition between companies in Norway and their competitors in Europe, for example. when it relates to the allowance price. So this climate cooperation has a lot of advantages for Norway. That's because we have also concluded it, and I guess that's why the Progress Party has just supported it. Then the representative Halleland points out that there are some climate measures that are expensive, but that can bring significant technology gains in time. An example of that is what we are now a few about, simply to carry out carbon capture and storage. It is a rather expensive climate action, but I believe that it will in the long term provide significant technology opportunities, jobs and key climate technologies for the future. We can always say that we're not going to do climate action in Norway, we're just going to be based on quota purchases. But it's the one that's going to sell the quota that sees the price of it. We don't know what's going to cost. I don't think it's a more conservative policy, and at least it's not the policy that business is asking for – that wants climate action in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e219	Terje Halleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e224	In the past, I have asked questions to the Ministry of Finance, where I was told that the difference between taking the most expensive cuts in Norway and buying quotas in Europe is several billions a year. When we know that greenhouse gas emissions are global and the solutions lie in international cooperation, a very often more rapid and better emission reduction will be possible if financial support for these measures is available. The intention of the non-quota agreement concluded with the EU by Norway is that there should be trade between nations. Then we get out the big emitters, where the cost–news is the biggest. But if the EU countries participating in this agreement had had the same position as Norway, would the agreement work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e229	The answer to that is yes, because the main purpose of the common climate policy for the non-quota sector in the EU is not for countries to trade allowances among themselves. And the reason one knows that is because there are extremely few countries that have chosen to do it until now. I think you could count them in one hand. This is, in fact, a security mechanism, because countries may not be able to cut out as much as they are required to do for different reasons; they do not invest enough; technology fails – what it is. The quota allocated to the tool is to help cut through agreements with other countries. But then I want to remind you that it's the other countries that decide what it's going to cost, and we don't know that. Therefore, any comparisons between the most expensive climate measures you can imagine in Norway, and the cheapest allowance price you can imagine, not very relevant, for that price just doesn't know anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e234	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e239	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. In parallel with the long-term defence plan, Stortinget's proposal from the Central Party for a full review of the MPA base move from Andøya to Evenes. Not unexpectedly – and probably intentionally – drowned that debate on Thursday, and none of the major representatives from the Right, the Christian People's Party or the Left-Central And Islands in the debate at all. The centre party maintains that the decommissioning of Andøya airbase is a historical misappropriation. For us, this is about a weakening of Norwegian maritime monitoring capacity at a time when the government should be working intensively to really strengthen this capacity. The government has chosen to destroy a very valuable defense environment and move the maritime patrol planes to an aerodrome that has major problems adapting P8 aircraft in addition to the QRA base for F-35 aircraft. Four years after the decision was taken, it is said that fundamental questions which have been impossible for the Stortinget to be answered during the management of both the long-term plan and the proposal for a representative. It's not going to work after four years to clarify the area of Andy Island. There is good reason to believe that phase-in of P8 cannot be done in its entirety on Evenes, due to delays and thus a lack of infrastructure. It is in itself a problem based on what has been said by the Minister of Defence. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister of Defence: can the Minister of Defense confirm to Stortinget that the phase-in of P8 in its integrity will take place on the Evenes and the Air Base there?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e252	We've informed Stortinget on a number of occasions about how the project works at Evenes. It is also true that we have informed that we are approx. one year delayed due to the extra work around the hangar situation. We compensate for that by establishing temporary facilities at Evenes, so that the P8 capacity is phased in there as planned when the planes are ready. There have been assessments in the Defence on alternative ways of introducing phases. The Chief of Defense has stated that it will be phased in at Evenes. In the case of Andøya, there is a project that has been taken seriously. It's serious when we make such big changes for a small community as shutting down the airstation. That's why we have a conversion organisation in place four years before the change happens, that's why we have adopted funding for the conversion work in good time before the change happens, and that's why we're also trying to follow up that work in the best possible way. Then I record that there are discussions in the media about land issues and about access to land. I mean, we've done a good job. We developed a property strategy early in cooperation with the Migration Board on how to see it if you needed a part of EBA in the past. We're now working on a recommendation on how to disaggregate property masses and areas up there. And I have been in contact with the rapporteur and have a standing agreement that if there is a nutrition project that requires the area it is not available, he will contact immediately. It hasn't happened. I note that the rapporteur is satisfied with the contact he has had, but he has not come and said that now is the time to deal with the conversion work because of the Ministry of Defence or our way of dealing with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e261	One can say a lot about the contact that has been between the municipality and the department, and it is not that the municipality is so happy. I had to call and check after the debate on Thursday. But we can do that in a different context. I have another question. During the management of the long-term plan and the representative proposal, the Senterpartiet and Stortinget asked for access to documents in order to verify information on the phase-in of P-8 surveillance aircraft. For almost two weeks, the government kept us talking very well about the fact that the committee was going to see the documents, and several daily times we got, was delayed, in several rounds. The size never got an insight into these documents and with the changing rationale. Can the Minister of Defence answer whether any of the documents in which the Stortinget was denied access says that the whole or part of the phase-in of new maritime surveillance aircraft P-8 should be conducted on the Gardermoen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e268	This is also something we've discussed on a number of occasions. These are working documents held by case handlers in the Defence Department. We took the time to clarify what kind of documents it was, and then we informed them that they were not transparent. The principle behind not giving insight into those documents is, first of all, that it would oblige me to take political responsibility for something that is being worked on in the ranks and that the head of defence has not done well. It hasn't come up to the head of defense. The Defence Manager has not set up. The second problem, and I think that is actually a more serious problem, is that we spend a long time discussing documents that should not initially be based on the defence proceedings. I'm worried if it's the way to base the political debate on information that doesn't belong to the work process that's going on. It must be that we must be able to demand that the defence personnel do not release that type of document, and it must also be possible for us to demand that political colleagues do not accept and use that kind of information.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e275	There will be follow-up questions – first Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e281	I record that I did not get an answer to my question. I didn't ask the Council to tell me what was in those documents. I asked him if he could cancel what it doesn't say, because at previous times, the Council of State has said that one should not phase in the P-8 aircraft on the Gardermo. Ergo is interesting, because it was a very special process where we first didn't get and then we would get insight – we would get it on Thursday, then on Friday, and then on Monday, but all of a sudden we're told that we can't see the documents at all. I assume that one does not need 14 days to find out if there is an internal working document, but that is not my question. My question is whether he can confirm that there is something in the documents that says that a P-8 aircraft should be phased into the Gardermo. It's not about what's there, but he can probably cancel what's not there. It must be easy to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e286	I choose once again to spend a little time on this pulpit to warn against this way of working. I'll pick another time from this pulpit to point out what's really going on here. So here are some cheaters in the Defense Department who release information in an internal process, who undermine the defense chief's ability to make the assessment he's supposed to make, and who also undermine the Department of Defense's ability to take all the considerations into account and then make a position after a decision in the case. I must be allowed to warn against setting up a political regime based on rumors, on leaks and on indications. Because that's what's happening in this case. Once again, I have to be allowed to say that we have to follow the constitutional lines. The mayors know the councils. The state councils know the head of defense, which is the leading military adviser. When the head of defence has been dealt with in his regime, he comes with a position to the department, and then we make the decisions that are needed. It is unfair to base political debate and decisions on leaks and indications, silence and vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e293	Emilie Enger Mehl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e298	The government has previously shown that there will be no activity with national and allied aircraft forces in the same time period at Evenes, because there is no capacity for maritime surveillance aircraft, Norwegian fighter aircraft and allied aircraft to operate simultaneously. There Andøya has been important precisely because the maritime surveillance planes can use that base. But now the government is laying down Andøya, while noting at the latest in the north zone announcement on Friday that there will be more allied exercise with aircraft forces in North Norway, and the activity that is on Andøya will be moved to Evenes. Then the question will be asked: how will the government meet the needs of NATO for 'host space support' in operations in North Norway? And where are they actually going to operate?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e305	It's not right that we say it can't happen, but an assessment of capacity in terms of where things can happen is quite right that we should do it. That's also how we've been working on the changed activities. It's actually like we're in a time when we're flying more, we're sailing more, we're more present with land power in the north. There is more allied activity now because of greater activity in the northern areas also from our neighbor in the east. Then we're going to make assessments of the capacity of Evenes, and then we've also said – and that's one of the important clarifications we've made along the way – that in case of crisis and in case of war, any Norwegian airport must be assumed to be an emergency base for the Norwegian defence. We're also working on how much allied activity we can have at Evenes, and then we're going to come up with the setting of the total capacity in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e312	Willfred Nordlund – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e317	During the debate on the long-term plan of defence in the Chamber last week, the Minister of Defence stated, among others, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «And I am aware that in such a large conversion work as in Andøya, we are four years before the change takes place, within the conversion organisation and the financing.» I would like to stress that the word "kry" about the government's work on Andeya is really a mockery of both the Defence, the Monitoring Environment and the community on Andeya. Furthermore, the Council of State said that he was regularly in contact with the rapporteur. The land use is still unclear after four years, and the government has in no way followed up its majority, with the Advance Party and the Workers' Party, in the conversion work in the case. In the Vesterålen newspaper today, we can read that the rapporteur does not recognise himself in the image of the Minister of Defence who drew regular contact. He discloses twice – regularly can mean so many, but hardly two. The Council of State may understand that the defence manager’s wish for the area is demanding for the conversion work. When will the Minister of Defence clarify future land use on Andøya Air Station?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e333	Here I must be allowed to repeat myself. Well, I'm very pleased, get over this by such a big change. I'm from a little fisherman, where we're used to 250 jobs going out in three months, just because it's getting cheaper to cut the fillet in China than it's cutting the fillet in Boat Fjord. That we're in Andyya with a conversion program and funding four years before a big change happens, I'm very happy with as a politician. Then I record that the rapporteur said to the newspaper that he could not recognise himself in my mention of contact. Yes, we have had contact, we have had it, so if the rapporteur thinks that three times it is what creates regularity, I regret it. But we have a consensus that if obstacles arise that stop the conversion work, he will contact us immediately. He didn't. We're working on the area problem there. It's also wise for the further projects on Andøya that we can see if it's possible to have a combined use of land and infrastructure. As I said, in crisis and war, it may be relevant to use Andeya, then it might be a good idea that someone has used infrastructure over the third period, and it is clear to others. It can be cost-effective and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e342	Willfred Nordlund – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e347	I record that the Council of State does not want to answer the questions that are being asked about this matter, and I understand that, because it is obviously unpleasant for both the Minister of Defence, the Government and their majority partners. Of course, when you want to set up a private establishment on an area, you want to know if the area can be used for it. It was just my question: can the Council say something about when land clearance might come, so that private investors can take a calculated risk of getting access to the land at all or not? I also showed that the head of defense has a different understanding of the area than what the government has so far assumed. I have also recorded that the Council of State has told the media that they want to move on with the work, in the light of what the head of defence has proposed, but that it does not necessarily happen that way. So I repeat the question, when can the municipality expect the council to come with a clarification of the land use?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e356	This is also a good example of how important it is to follow the processes. The Chief of Defense has been allowed to say his or her, we make an assessment where we also look at other considerations. So here we're going to use the pyramid as we're going to use it. At the same time, I am aware that there is pressure to carry out nutrient projects on Andøya. That is why I have said to the rapporteur: if something comes up, there will be an obstacle, and you will contact me immediately. It's also important information when we're going to do the assessment of what can be a good solution for the areas ahead. That case is in my office. We're also going to give a clarification pretty quickly. However, I have not received a single signal from the Migration Board or from the rapporteur in Andøya that there are some projects that are pending because of the imprudence of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e362	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e367	I would like to use the opportunity to ask a little about climate today, and about the climate when the government parties agreed with the Progress Party last night – and I see that the climate minister is right to get ready. An overall size has determined that by 2025 all new passenger cars sold shall be zero-emission cars. So electric cars have to be the natural choice for people who buy themselves a new car. In the autumn the government introduced a traffic insurance tax on electric cars, but at the same time the government increased the CO 2 price of new fossil cars. On 7 October, the Minister for Climate and Environment wrote on Twitter: ‘I can understand that the elbers prefer not to pay a traffic insurance fee. But we are also increasing the CO 2 component of the fossil car entry fee in this budget, so that it will be at least as attractive to choose an electric car in the future as it is today." In the budget unit, the increase in CO 2 component of the one-off fossil car charge is eliminated. The increase in the environmental tax has therefore been removed to ensure that the choice of an electric car was still equally attractive. My question is, how can the Left Council defend the fact that it has made it less attractive to choose an electric car and more attractive to buy a fossil car?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e388	Let me start by saying that I am very happy that there is now unity and a plurality in this mess – and there is always a plurality of work to do – that will have a record climate and environmental budget next year, which will contribute to significant spillouts, which will help to realize carbon capture and storage. It is the largest climate investment in Norwegian industry ever. There is no doubt that the budget we are now adopting will ensure that the trend we have seen over the last few years will continue – that is, emissions will decrease. When it comes to zero vans, the government insists on what's our goal, that every car sold in 2025 should be zero emitters. That's what I think we're going to achieve – also with the budget unit that came yesterday. It is true that in the government’s draft budget – and whether I prefer my government’s draft budget to that of the Stortinget at the end of the day – the answer is, as a rule, yes, and this time too – so we suggest that a few steps be taken when it comes to cars. Traffic insurance tax also for low-level electric cars, I don't think I will affect the sale to any particular extent, because it's not about the price of the purchase, which is the most important thing when people buy an electric car. This is about a fee you pay later, as all other drivers do. We also made an effort to increase the CO 2 component for fossil passenger cars and vans, and we changed the requirement for the range of chargeable hybrid cars. What happened to yesterday's change was a retained increase in the CO 2 component for vans. That's very good, because there we need to get a shift going now, because it's going too slowly, but a distant increase in the CO 2 component for passenger cars, so he's going to be just like he is now. In addition, the increase in requirements for chargeable hybrid cars was reversed so that it would be more attractive to buy chargeable hybrids next year than would have been the case with the government’s budget proposal. Would I have preferred the government's budget in this area? Yes. But also collecting the set: will this help us achieve the goal of zero-emission cars in 2025, and that emissions continue to go down? The answer to that is also yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e408	The Council of State itself underlines the deterioration in the competitive relationship between the electric car and fossil cars caused by the budgetary unit. Let me go on drilling in this. In the United Nations on 14 October, the Minister for Climate and Environment wrote the following: ‘The government’s electric car billing is one of the reasons why emissions have decreased four years in a row. Therefore, the benefits exist at the same time as we make it more expensive to buy a fossil car. It is necessary for us to achieve the climate targets.’ The Left has now joined the Progress Party to eliminate the increase in environmental taxes on fossil cars, which would ensure the competitiveness of the electric car, and which Rotevatn boasted in his contribution to the Nation. So, together with the Progress Party, the Left grip of the State Council claimed to be necessary to achieve our climate goals. The question is: is it no longer necessary to achieve the climate objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e418	The answer to that is open yes, and I'm going to do that, also with the budget unit that's here. I would like to stress that with the budgetary unit that came yesterday, the competitive relationship between purchasing an electric car and a fossil car is the following: it is exactly the same as it was before the budget unit. So with that policy, we have a situation where every other sold car is a zero tow truck, and it increases and increases and increases. So I think we're going to achieve the 2025 goal, which is a very important goal, by passing on the good terms and conditions. So I can say, as I also said when the budget came, that having a low traffic insurance charge for electric cars is not something left has been a driver for. We're concerned that we're going to maintain the benefits we can, but I don't think it's going to affect the sale to some extent, if to some extent, simply because it doesn't affect the price of the sale. We keep the increase in the CO 2 component for vans, and that's what I'm very busy about, because fossil cars we're forced to phase out faster than today. The alternatives exist, and it will pay even more to buy a zero-emission truck than a fossil goods car with this budget unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e430	There will be follow-up questions – first Lars Haltbrecken.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e435	So we are witnessing that the Council of State before the budgetary unit says that the increase in environmental taxes on fossil cars is absolutely necessary to achieve our climate objectives, and after the budgetary unity, where this absolutely necessary increase has been removed, continues to say that the target of 100 pst is to be achieved. sales of zero-emission cars in the new car segment from 2025. It's not for believers. We're in a situation where fossil cars won the budget deal. Electric cars are subject to increased charges, while the increase in polluting fossil cars was announced. The question to the Council of State is: Does the Minister for Climate and Environment believe that this is the strategy for achieving the 2025 target?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e442	The increase in CO 2 price, CO 2 component, for the category of vehicles where there is the greatest need to give a push now, i.e. the vans. I think that's very important. Secondly, competition will be the same as today, and I think we're going to achieve the goal of it. So I would remind the representative Haltbrecken that his party, at least as far as I've got it, has gone in so that a now in the next period will start to have much higher VAT on some of the more expensive electric cars. I would have been much more concerned about that, because then we're talking about the price at the time of purchase of a bunch of popular models that are large enough, with hinges attached and with enough range, so that they can actually replace fossil cars for a number of users. If it's true that SV will make them more expensive from next year, as far as I know, is a proposal from SV, there's at least reason to be concerned about achieving the 2025 goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e455	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e460	At the same time as it is proposed in SV, the price of fossil cars is increasing the more. What we see the government doing is the opposite: it introduces a tax increase on electric cars and removes the announced tax increase on fossil cars. In addition to removing the increased environmental tax on the purchase of brand-new and polluting cars, there is no need to increase the electric range for chargeable hybrids before they are fully discounted in the one-off and CO 2 taxes, and the CO 2 tax on natural gas is also deferred. The question for the Minister for Climate and Environment is: is this budgetary unity with the Progress Party going to lead to higher or lower emissions of greenhouse gases, compared to the government's draft budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e473	My reading of such unity is that I think it would be quite similar. I think some things are bad, for example. that now it makes it more attractive to buy chargeable hybrids – which in themselves are better than fossil cars, but still – than the government suggested. At the same time, there are a number of proposals here that I think would be very positive to bring down greenhouse gas emissions, for example. that one reinforces the green shipping effort and reinforces the mastering system for old ships. It would be good to bring down greenhouse gas emissions. What is most important is that the major climate and environmental concerns contained in this budget – carbon capture and storage, record-breaking railway operations, high levels of public transport in large cities, 5 pst. increase the CO 2 tax, almost everything we mentioned when the budget came, a record climate and environmental effort of over 11 billion. kr – consists.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e486	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e491	I register that questions are answered with some explanations. We'll try another minister, I think. We get to test the Minister of Development also on climate issues, because I looked at social media that the Minister of Development boasted that the aid is a budget win. It is at best a truth of modification, at least in the case of climate action. In the past, the government had cut the focus on renewable energy, climate and environmental measures. As a result of the budgetary unity, there is now a massive cut of 200 million. in appropriations for the green climate fund. In the government's original draft budget, the government told us the following: ‘The Green Climate Fund is the main channel for Norwegian multilateral climate funding for emission reductions and climate adaptation in developing countries.’ [[GCF]] The question is: how can the government defend its main partner for climate finance through large cuts in the investment in badly needed climate action in poor countries in order to agree with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e503	It is absolutely right that climate action through what we have put into development policy has been greatly strengthened. We have discussed this in several rounds in this Chamber, where our very priority in climate adaptation is to achieve a better balance through emission reduction and climate adaptation because it affects the very poorest, is an important contribution to poverty reduction. In addition, in the context of the draft budget, we have presented in this Chamber an investigation relating to a climate fund, which could be one of the most important measures that have been delivered since the forest effort came, with which we are now working. The green climate fund has not been cut so that there is money disappearing, but it has simply been pulled out in time, so that some of the appropriations this year will also come next year. It's not something that was wanted by the Christian People's Party, and that was inherently, it's absolutely right, but was part of the consensus, the whole, that came into the budget. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e512	Unfortunately, speaking time is out. Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e519	So, of all the things that could be shifted in this budget, the government believes that climate funding is the right thing to do. Otherwise, the answer is a perfect example of the government's tacit commitment. There are great ideas about a climate fund, but nothing is allowed in the budget. And you stumble on the rise side to satisfy the Advance Party. Next year, the world will hopefully find the way out of the economic crisis we are facing. Why, then, does the government feel that it is proper to cut the appropriations that actually facilitate the green shift in many developing countries and that actually contribute to the creation of green jobs in many developing countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e526	With respect to reporting, the representative says that there is no means of renewable action, is not true. It's gone up to 1.7 billion. Fresh crowns for Norfund, among others, 50 pst. over time, it shall be used for the purpose of renewable action. In addition, considerable funds have been released, including through the efforts of Norfund, which are just about investing in renewable energy in vulnerable markets, which has a huge impact both on reducing emissions, creating jobs and adapting the climate in areas where there has been no participation and contribution to climate change. So it's not true, it's significant amounts. The portfolio of Norfund is 25 billion. kr – 25 br. – and more than 1,7 billion. In addition, kr. There is a significant commitment to renewable energy in what lies here, and when we get the investigative work done, and that is to be done in a good and thorough way, we will put forward an even stronger commitment to it – when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e533	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e538	My question goes to the Minister for Development. I would like to ask about the budget agreement that was concluded yesterday. There is no doubt that there is a broad political consensus that attacks on freedom of belief and persecution of religious minorities are a serious problem in many countries. Now Siv Jensen said in the Political Quarter this morning that there are Christian refugees who are to be given priority and that she has been brought with her Christian People's Party on this. This principle has Ulstein himself argued very strongly against, he says that Christian leaders in oppressed regimes themselves say that they want equal treatment, not special treatment. Then he comes with another important point: giving priority to Christians, says Ulstein, can exacerbate the situation of Christians who are left in the countries from which they flee, because if it becomes a perception that Christians receive special treatment from Western authorities, local Christians may be accused of infiltration and of being associated with Western interests. It can increase the level of conflict and exacerbate persecution and discrimination. So says Rupstad: Yes, but not just Christians, it's about jesidians and ahmadija as well. But it doesn't make the situation on the ground for the Christians persecuted better that Norwegian authorities come in and say that we have a general policy that is about religious minorities in general. That's the perception that Ulstein here is attacking. After all, the bishop of the Norwegian Church, the leading bishop, Fykse Tveit, says: The Christian human vision is: "A man in need is a man in need, no matter what his faith". It must apply to religious minorities in general, which is the Christian People's Party now claiming that this agreement is about. Why has the Christian People’s Party changed its view that religious minorities should be treated differently from others who have been persecuted?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e549	There are different minorities who need protection and are priority groups on which we have been clear. In the budgetary negotiations with the Progress Party, it was a wish in the overall agreement that both Jesuits, Ahmadija and Christians should also be mentioned in those agreements. That doesn't mean that we deprioritise other groups, that groups like LHBTIQ+ and other religious minorities should not be given the opportunity to receive the same protection as they claim. But so it is that there is an increased persecution associated with Christian religious minorities, those who are persecuted for their faith. So it's also natural to mention it when we mention other religious minorities, and I think that the representative here is just doing a larger number of it than what I think was the starting point of the budgetary union. My own vision, the vision of the Christian People's Party, has not changed. It's not like we're looking for Christians. As for those who are persecuted for their faith, regardless of which religious minority – I have also mentioned Jesuits and others – it is clear that there are many who will receive that protection. Then it's referred to here a group that is in danger of being persecuted and persecuted for their faith. That's why they're added to the list of priority groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e556	So that means that Siv Jensen's statements in Political Quarter this morning are wrong, because there she says that the Progress Party has got the Christian People's Party to change politics in this area, but what the Council of State says here is that the Christian People's Party has not changed its mind. Who is right – Ulstein or Jensen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e563	What I noticed during the presentation yesterday was that only the word «Christian» was mentioned. At least that is not the government's policy, nor is it the Christian People's Party's policy. That's why it's still standing by. The notions we get about how it actually gets experienced, and how it can even in some context be with and exacerbate the situation, are not something that has changed. In a budget unit, there has been a wish that we should also talk about it and show that, among other things. jesidians and Christians shall be included in the list from which we shall give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e569	It opens for follow-up questions – first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e574	Another area where changes were made yesterday is associated with abortion and prevention. Last year we discussed it in this room, and then I got numbers from the department that showed a clear cut. Now I have written the same letter to the department, and I get no answer. I'm told this is very hard to figure out. But there's two ways to figure out, says the Department, it's through the allocation to UNAIDS and through the allocation to the UN Population Fund. These are both areas where the government now chooses to cut. Yesterday, in the budget agreement, there is just UNAIDS and the Population Fund to be cut – appropriations for abortion and prevention for women in developing countries, perhaps the most effective development aid of all, where women have the right to decide on their own bodies and to participate in the labour market. Why do the government parties, along with the Advance Party, cut the appropriations for prevention and abortion in developing countries, when so many other countries do so at the same time, so that we know it goes against women?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e583	In the field of sexual health, sexual rights and harmful habits, the government has committed itself to an amount that totals over 10 billion. kr in the years from 2020 to 2025. In the case of the UN Population Fund, UNFPA, as the representative Huitfeldt mentions here, we made a proposal in the new age group last week, where we added an increase of more than 26 million. Just for the United Nations Population Fund. We have also invested funds there and strengthened the core support of what was our original draft budget. It is true – again – that as part of the whole of the review and consensus with the Progress Party, they have wanted to re-prioritize some of the things within the aid portfolio, strengthening some of the UN organisations, while other UN organisations have got a move. That's right. But our starting point was just to strengthen it. We have even released funds to increase support for the UN Population Fund for the current year precisely because it is so crucial work they are doing in the middle of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e590	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e595	What's a little strange in the Council's answer here is that he places a lot of emphasis on strengthening this over the years. So I ask, how are the appropriations next year? Then I get the answer that it's hard to figure out. But the department itself says there are two methods of calculation that are very concrete, and it's by looking at UNAIDS and looking at the UN Population Fund. Both are areas where government cuts. So the council says they've added an increase of 26 million. kr in the new aging period, but 85 million. NOK i cut is a little more than 26 million. kr in increase. I do not think I get an answer to the question. Why is this an area that this government agrees with the Progress Party to cut? Why are there just appropriations for prevention and abortion to poor women to cut the development budget next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e602	Twenty-six million. kr is a concrete number. The representative Huitfeldt wants to get concrete numbers. We've also added almost 140 million. extra specifically linked to the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Last year, more than 21 million HIV patients were treated. We've also strengthened it in the new era, we're proposing it, with almost 140 million. kr more. We're also adding more than 30 million. D related to the rights and position of girls and women in our partner countries, where there are major challenges now, as well as those related to the UN Population Fund. There should be no doubt that the government is committed to the promises we have related to sexual and reproductive health and rights. We are firmly committed to it, and we have also seen an increase in the appropriations for prevention in this year's budget. There's an important investment that's going to be in the future too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e611	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e616	It is not controversial to say that Islam is less compatible with our values, our Christian values and our Christian cultural heritage. And it's no coincidence. That's the same thing that happens all over Europe, so let's make it clear, it's not controversial. It's just about adapting to our values, and it's about adapting to our secular law. It concerns women's vision, freedom of expression, equality, opposition to the society they have come to, and lack of adaptation. We saw the latest repeat crime on the Furuse, as there were Muslims standing behind – not necessarily because of Islam, but at least it is those who make gangs and do a lot of hard work, according to the Oslo police. Of course, all ministers, including the Minister for Development, should take account of the integration into Norway and not just take refugees out without thinking that one has a responsibility for it as well. My question is, how will the Minister of Development actually follow up the decision that will be taken, go to the UN and say that we should have ahmadiyya Muslims or Christian refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e625	I just want to make it clear that there is another state council field I get the question on, but I can give a brief comment. The starting point, as I experience the Christian values, is just not to look at people differently. Those who have a need for protection will be those who must be given priority. In the consensus we found, persecuted Christians were included in the list of priorities, along with jesidians and others, on which we are also here. Through the job, I have been out and met persecuted Christians and the rowingya in Bangladesh and Myanmar. Whether it is Christian persecuted in other countries in the same region, we have the same responsibility, regardless of faith and background. When they are persecuted and protected, we have a responsibility, and we stand for that. That's why the refugees we're responsible for are not just numbers. It is individuals who have different backgrounds and are in different situations, but they need protection, and we take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e632	Himanshu Gulati – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e637	Yesterday's budgetary unity between the Advance Party and the Government involves not only the prioritisation of refugees with a Christian background, Jesidi and Ahmadiyya, but also a cut in assistance to the Palestinians of 30 million. kr. New numbers from Israel this week show that last year the Palestinian authorities gave a total of 1.6 billion. in prison pay for convicted terrorists and their families. Such prisoner wages for so-called martyrs often involve a large one-off sum and a monthly salary of up to NOK 15 000. Several countries have cut off their aid to the Palestinians to show their disgust at such payments to convicted terrorists. Since yesterday's budgetary unity means a reduction in assistance to the Palestinians, I would like to ask Ulstein, if he would use this cut to put pressure on the Palestinian authorities to stop paying pay to convicted terrorists if they want Norwegian support in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e645	There is once again a question that needs to be addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is following up the Middle East and Palestine questions regarding the contacts between the authorities and other follow-up of assistance to Palestine.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e650	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e655	I did not get an answer to my previous question. Firstly, does the Minister for Development think that he has a responsibility for development also in Norway, or is he going to look all around the world blindly and give a hint as to how developments in Norway are going, so that we take responsibility when things happen because of Muslim immigration to Norway, even when we see what is happening across Europe? So the question is, what will the Council of State do to specifically get Christian refugees to Norway? Is it soon a letter from the Minister of Development to the UN, so that Christian refugees are given priority, and is it so that the Stortinget will be presented for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e664	The President would just like to point out that she considers that this question is not within the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State, but I leave it to the Council of State to assess whether he will answer anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e669	That is absolutely right – as far as the follow-up of refugees and the selection there is concerned, it is not linked to my field of responsibility. But the first part of the question from the representative Tybring-Gjedde was related to whether the Minister for Development was concerned with developments in Norway. What we've learned in the last few months is how we contribute and contribute, including in many of the poorest countries, affects stability and opportunities for development and growth at home. We can look at the pandemic, see the importance of how our investment, what we're doing, what we're helping to get control of the pandemic, is actually a direct link to what development will be like here in Norway. The shut-down here is a direct consequence of a virus, a pandemic that evolved from a completely different location, in a completely different area of the world. My main responsibility is to combat poverty, to lift vulnerable groups, those who need it the most, in developing countries. That is my mandate, my task, and what the Stortinget has asked me to deliver on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e676	The size goes on to the last main question in this oral question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e681	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. The size has just been discussed and the necessary decisions have been taken yesterday at the latest for the new long-term defence plan. Everyone involved in the negotiations around the adjusted plan experienced the negotiations as demanding, but also as real and good, in our search for good and broad solutions in several areas. When the negotiations tightened to the end and there were more clear demands for the government on several points, I experienced the Council of State as a solution-oriented and responsive. He came to meet us, among others. in the questions of helicopter on Bardufoss and of membership of the European Defence Fund, EDF, to mention something. That's what the Council of State has to pay tribute to. A proposal by the Progress Party, which did not reach a majority, was that by 1 February 2021 it should be concluded as regards the bonding and use of areas associated with Andøya Air Station. The representatives Navarsete and Nordlund have also discussed this earlier in the Questionnaire, but the reason why I am going to do this again is that I want a clearer answer than what I felt the Council of State gave earlier today. My question is therefore: instead of waiting for the rapporteur's enquiries, will the Council of State take its own initiative in order to speed up the clarification of future land interconnections at Andøya Air Station – and, where appropriate, when?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e692	Thank you for a good and constructive question. This is a process we've been working on for a long time. We have therefore, in cooperation with the conversion organisation, developed a property strategy for land and property, construction and construction, on Andeya. We work closely with Andøya Test Center and Andøya Space Center, simply because they realize that they can make use of part of the infrastructure that the Defense has here. So not only the needs of the defense, but also the total need for Andeya, are part of the assessments we make. The Defence Manager has come with his position on land use on Andøya, where he has divided the areas into three. One is the area he has to have, the other is the area where he sees it can be co-use, and the third is the area he thinks he can be released. We're now doing the assessment of how we're going to get that breakdown. I think I should be so bold as to promise Mr Wold that we will give an answer in good time before 1 February. So even if the Progress Party did not get a majority in favour of its proposal, we should at least be able to meet the wishes. In this work, I am concerned that we should be able to take all the considerations into account, and in a conversion work, it can often be a good idea to think about interaction in the future, at least on projects as large as you can see on Andy Island. So I think it's wise that we've taken this time, all the time Andøya Test Center and Andøya Space Center have many clear lines to the defense's activity and interaction with the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e701	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and he can be absolutely sure that we will follow closely around the date 1 February and come back to the question if there is no clarification. My follow-up question is about Evenes. I have also asked the Council of State about this in the Questionnaire earlier. The reason why we're stressing this is because we're not sure what the conditions around this are. Therefore, my question to the Council of State: Can the Council of State guarantee that there is no information and information to suggest that the assumptions underlying the decision of the Stortinge to establish an advanced operating base for fighter aircraft at the Evene Air Station in 2012 have changed significantly?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e708	Yes – with everything we know now, it is my clear answer that there is no significant change. There are many aspects that are discussed in the case of Evens. One is that it's not possible to land there with Boeing or with F-35. Now our most experienced F-35 pilot has been out saying that for him, Evenes is a very decent airport – from there he will be able to operate without restrictions. I'm very glad he said that. I'm recording that you didn't believe it in some communities nearby, but we're getting to trust the pilot. In the case of Boeing -- a P-8 is a Boeing, and as we know it today, it's going civilly as a passenger plane on Evenes. The regularity of Evenes is as high as the regularity of Andeya, where you run civil with Dash 8, which is a simpler plane to deal with. So I'm pretty sure that a lot of the concerns we have are being thought about and answered in the investigation that has already been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e715	With that, the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e732	The question is: ‘The centre batch has long been critical of target management requiring young students to evaluate themselves and their adverse effects. In the newspaper on 21 November, Professor Emeritus Per A. Brodal points out the burden of using evaluations with smile and leaven: ‘It may seem that the government has taken into account its own policies rather than the interests of young children.’ Does the Council share the concern, and will the government end the practice of pressing on the students tests that can harm young children and take into account the health of young children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e741	Let me first say that the government is very concerned that all students should be safe and well at school, and not least the youngest. That's also why we've been busy getting to know more about how the youngest students actually do it at school. Today we have the student survey, where students from the 5th stage and up to high school can express their opinion on well-being and learning environment at school. It is important for students to be heard, as it provides both teachers, school managers and school owners with information on how students experience everyday school life, so that the school can follow up with proper action. We have no similar studies for the youngest students today. That is why I believe that we know too little about how they are doing in school everyday life, and I believe that this also marks the debate on school everyday life for the youngest students. I think it's important that we from national teams investigate how we can get good and regular information about the younger students' experience of their own everyday lives. The government has also highlighted the importance of this in the Granavolden Declaration. At the same time, I would like to stress that I do not believe that a study of the learning environment is to be regarded as a test, as the representative Knutsdatter Strand writes, but there is no doubt that it is demanding to make a study for the younger ones. That is also why the government asked the Education Directorate to assess different legal, ethical and methodological challenges when we asked them to investigate how a study of well-being and learning environment for 1–4 students. steps could be implemented. I have now received a professional assessment from the Education Directorate on the challenges and opportunities associated with carrying out such a study. When I decide on this, it is important for me to carefully evaluate all sides. I also have regular dialogue with the partners in the sector on how to create better quality development tools in the light of the innovation. In this respect, I have also discussed a well-being study for the youngest students with them. We need to keep working on finding good solutions to the challenges and challenges of such studies, and we need time to find out how the youngest children's voice will be heard in a good way. OsloMet now evaluates the six-year reform, and part of the mission is to examine how the youngest children experience school life. I believe that the knowledge we gain from this evaluation must be at the root of our decision further on the subject of a possible regular national welfare survey for the youngest. In addition to the initiatives we take nationally, there is also a lot of development work going on locally, both in schools and in school owners. Many people use different surveys to collect knowledge about, for example: the school environment. It is within the local action room to conduct such studies at school. I think it's positive as long as they stay within the legal framework, carefully assess different dilemmas and issues, and use wisdom and reason in the choice of methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e758	One of the problems with the very investigation I am making on the question is that the ethical and legal assessment did not come about until the project was started. The centre batch is concerned about the sum of standardised tests in school — because that is what this test is — and that what cannot be tested is not given attention. Governments must take responsibility for both monitoring and testing as a department and directorate taking the initiative, affecting students and teachers in school. On 11 June 2018, the Stortinget decided that the government should review all the tests and evaluations with a selection of parties. Then I wonder if the Council of State will look at the sum of standardized tests in school that the government is initiating, in connection with this review, or can students and teachers expect more stressful surveys from the government in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e765	I think it is good that we have a debate on which methods are best suited to provide good information, especially on the younger ones, because there is no doubt that it is difficult to obtain good information that comes directly from the source. At the same time, I believe that there is something we should give priority to, because I'm pretty sure that if the youngest children themselves are allowed to tell about their school days, we will know more and have better quality of the information than if we just listen to, for example. what teachers or school owners report themselves. I think that professional debates are absolutely necessary to develop the knowledge base on the school. If we're going to be better at finding out how the youngest students are doing, we actually have to try out some methods to do it. At the same time, of course, all testing must be carried out within a sound ethical, legal and methodological framework. As I said in my post, we have discussions with all the parties about all the different mappings and tests that we have in Norwegian school. This is part of it. It has recently been discussed at a meeting, and we will also discuss it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e772	The center party is concerned that the students should be heard, and that it is important to know more about how the youngest children are doing in school. In this way, we are pleased that the evaluation of the six-year reform is finally coming. The most basic thing to make children open to learning is that they are safe. Then they can learn to learn, etc. But children are expressing themselves differently, and the problem here is that you get a standardized test that can't account for all of the variations. New curricula and training law committees highlight student participation, and it is good that we raise the debate, as the Council of State is concerned, but the question is whether some people may also suffer from the fact that we are running this standardised form of student participation. I wonder if the state council believes such monitoring allows students to participate in a good way, or whether the findings are most important for school management and government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e779	All employees of the school have an obligation to keep track of whether the students are doing well. I really assume this is done at every school around Norway — whether it is in the form of student talks or other ways to get information on how the students are doing — and therefore also take action locally to ensure that the students are doing well. The challenge is that neither the school owners nor we as national authorities have any systematic information on how the youngest children are doing. I believe that the debate we have had over the last few years on the youngest children has been important, but it has been very marked by claims for which we have no good professional basis. I think it would have been very good if we had systematic information that would have given us a good answer as to whether there's too much sitting in the school, if the students get enough time out, if they have enough play, if they're taken care of, they have friends, how they themselves experience their own schooling – all this. I think it's very important to figure out. We can discuss what is the most appropriate way to do it, but I think it is important that both school owners and national authorities, as well as each teacher and employee, have that information.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e787	‘In the past week, the media have highlighted the serious lack of resources among police lawyers. Unsustainable conditions are passed on and a situation that threatens legal certainty. On 25 November, Fredriksstad Blad writes: «Fredriksstad Blad knows that there are serious acts of violence, family violence and other serious things on the desks at Fredrikstad Police Station that the lawyers have not been able to get hold of.» What will the Council of State do to address the serious lack of resources and ensure the legal certainty of people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e794	Let me start by saying that the prosecution lawyers are doing a very important and good job. It also shows the statistics: the remainders of prosecution cases have fallen sharply during the year and are now about 20 pst. lower than at the end of 2019. The 2020 forecast shows that the budget will have fewer outstandings at the end of 2020 than the target requirement. Then I understand very well that they are in a difficult situation with many things. For this reason, the government has taken action both in the current budget, in the revised national budget and in financial measures in response to the outbreak of the virus. By 2020, it has been allocated 83 million. additional to the administrative budget of the police districts. The funds shall include, inter alia: to strengthen police prosecution. In addition, 13 million were granted in the spring of 2020 in connection with the virus outbreak. kr to increase the capacity of the public prosecutors in the current year. In the draft State budget for 2021, the government has proposed a permanent strengthening of prosecutors of 39 million. kr. Then I understand that the lawyers still experience that the working day is demanding. Police officers in each district are responsible for recruiting prosecutors, and police officers must also make the best possible use of the resources allocated to them, based on their needs and within the framework provided. That is why it is very good that the police districts have been employing about 180 new police lawyers since 2013, and it is now working almost 30 p.m. more police lawyers in the districts as of 31 October of the year 2020 than at the corresponding date in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e807	Now the alert has come from the East Police District, but police lawyers tell us about a situation where this might as well have come from all over the country. So the Council of State tells of an increase in the number of lawyers, but when the Labour Party asks budgetary questions about how many police lawyers are out there, we don't get a concrete answer. We are shown to those who have the position code lawyer, but behind that code there are also many other positions, which means that we do not get the total picture of how many police lawyers are out there. And this is a situation that has built up over time. The police lawyers tell us about a situation where there are the demanding issues, those that take a lot of capacity, of which there are several. Last year, an overall judicial committee agreed that the police prosecution should receive a separate sum in the state budget. This has not been followed up in the budget for next year. Why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e816	The fact is, it's working 30 pst. more lawyers in the police now than it did in 2013, and then it is also known in the Labour Party that most of these work with investigations and work as prosecutors. Of course, some lawyers also work on other matters, but the main emphasis here has been a strong commitment to law enforcement and investigation. It's been wild from the Storting, and it's been wild on the part of the government. With regard to the alert in East police district, I will not comment on it, because it is a separate matter that needs to be handled according to its own rules. But it's just that you can read in the paper what pressure East police districts have had on very heavy cases, especially in the last year. It is true that the Committee wanted to make the funding visible. I totally agree, we're working on that, but we didn't have the power to get it into this year's budget in a department that has a leadership responsibility in the Korona crisis. It means there are many things that we haven't been given as much priority as we would like, but we're going to do that next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e831	It is fine that there has been an increase in the number of lawyers, but this does not respond to the need that exists out there, when police lawyers across the country tell that they are familiar with the situation in East police districts. This decision, or this majority comment, came in connection with the budget last year before the Korona crisis occurred. So it's pretty special that you haven't been able to deliver on it, that it's going to be a separate post, a post where you can see where the money goes, and that you can follow it that it's actually going to be a real chargelift. So why is it that we can read, December 5th last year, that the Right Judicial Spokesman just promises, that there will be a separate post on the State budget, but that then, one year later, you have not been able to discharge?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e838	It is such that there has been a very focused effort on the police, as well as on investigation and prosecution. In 2014 it was granted 25 million. kr extra for this purpose, in 2015 43,8 million. kr extra, in 2016 34.5 million. NOK extra – and I could list it further. So it's been a very focused investment. So you could say it's still demanding. Yes, but it is not that it has not been bet. It has been, and that bet must continue. So the answer to the question is that we've had a huge amount of pressure. There has been a tremendous effort by all employees in the Ministry of Justice and Defence throughout this year on many heavy issues, as well as leading us through this corona situation. So it's just that it's not just putting an entry on a budget. It requires continuous work both in the Directorate of Police and in the Department, and so we have not brought it into this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e850	‘Recently, the higher education attendance figures were published by the Coordinated Recording. These figures show that teacher training is on the way in North Norway. The offer of «New Nesna», Nord universitet's offer in Mo i Rana, has an attendance of 30 and 45 p.m. respectively. on GLU 1-7 and GLU 5-10. Is the Council satisfied with the figures for teacher training in North Norway and is the Council of State certain that the structural changes that have occurred in recent years will contribute to more teachers in the north in the years to come?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e857	I thank the representative of Meisfjord Jösevold for the question. I have to say, it worries me that there are not enough teachers in North Norway. To meet the teacher’s needs, it is clear that more people have to meet the teacher’s needs, and more have to complete them. This is precisely why the government has implemented several measures both to increase the status of the teaching profession and to get more people to train and work in the north. Let me mention a few changes we have made, which I believe contribute to making the teaching profession more attractive: we have introduced a five-year-old teacher training at master level, we have strengthened the admission requirements, new career paths for teachers are established, increased skills requirements have been introduced, and more teachers in school have been implemented through the teaching norm. The government also has arrangements for the cancellation of student loans. If you complete elementary school teacher education 1-7 in normal time and take a job in North Norway, you can cancel NOK 161,000. Teacher training in North Norway, as elsewhere in the country, shall be research-based, practical and of high quality. Providing such training and carrying out research and development at a high international level require sound professional environments of a certain size. Like my party, Right, the representative Meisfjord Jösevold's party, SV, also voted that it is the institutions that determine the study structure, not the politicians. Having said that, I believe that reorganization does not mean a weakened offer of teacher training in North Norway, rather on the contrary. The challenges in the north are not new, but they are not solved with lower requirements. In the last four years, more students have met with teacher training at the University of Tromsø than before the introduction of the fourth requirement. The attendance is also better at Sami college after a period of time. Nationally, there is a tendency for fewer teachers to fall from the past in the course of study. At Nord University, the recording figures are still too low, and I expect them to work systematically to recruit more applicants, along with local actors, such as those who work in the field. the municipalities as school owners. The long-term objective is that the sum of actions, five-year education, enhanced admission requirements, new career paths and increased skills requirements help young people in North Norway to see the teaching profession as an attractive career path in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e876	Helgeland is now being tapped for good, existing professional environments in teacher training, and good public infrastructure with a good special room for teacher training is not used. All refer also to the importance of good cooperation between municipalities and the educational institution, which was also the subject of the Council of State, on teacher training, for both recruitment and quality of education. When all 18 municipalities in a region that Helgeland has strongly warned against Nord University withdrawing teacher training from Nesna and thus the professionals from Helgeland, but the university still chooses to ignore this, would it not be wise to open up the wish of municipalities to other cooperation models and partners in order to strengthen the basis for cooperation between municipalities and teacher training institutions and thus also to use existing infrastructure at Nesna?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e883	Let me first say that recruiting teachers to the districts, for example. in Helgeland, does not depend on there being a place of study in the different places. It's e.g. so that when we now establish clearer professional requirements, Nord University has seen on its own the need to bring together more of those professional environments. At the same time, we have a great opportunity in both decentralised and flexible education services, which can be made available throughout the country regardless of whether there is a place of learning in an area. So it's like the Nordic University has reported itself, is that from 2019 they haven't brought up students full-time at Nesna, but they have exactly the kind of decentralised, collection-based education. I think there's a lot of potential for our districts here as well. Then the municipalities in need of skilled labour must also be offensive and get access to the new teachers who are graduates, for example. from University of Tromsø and Nord universitet.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e892	I believe that what the Council of State says is directly wrong given that all the research shows that there is a close link between where young people, and so far also adults, study and where they actually take on a job afterwards. It is such that establishing teacher training courses outside a main campus entails additional costs for both infrastructure and staff. Nevertheless, the government has not chosen to finance the fifth year of teacher training. Having a decentralised education does not at all contribute to people taking education wherever they live. So what does the Council of State think to be able to do with this? Is it conceivable to do something about the recording requirements, or is it conceivable to do something about the funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e901	With regard to the financing of the fifth year of teacher training, there is simply a substantive disagreement as to whether or not it has been done. I think we have financed the fifth year, i.e. that we have funded the students who are actually going through the last year, as we promised. Then I'm aware that some institutions want a different system or a better funding. I have great respect for that, but I think we've done it, based on what we actually promised. The second thing I want to warn you is to lower the recording requirements, because we have now seen that although there has been some decrease in the number of applicants, there have been several qualified applicants, i.e. those who meet the requirements. I think, or I'm pretty sure, there's a connection between what a professional basis you have when you go into a study, and your ability to complete and pass that study. We saw that the ironing numbers in e.g. the mathematics of teacher training prior to the introduction of the fourth requirement was sky-high. I'm more concerned with getting more teachers fully trained than how many applicants and unable to complete and pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e908	That being the case, it is no. 2, the ordinary Questionnaire, ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-02.ana.ud72e922	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what it looks like. The meeting has been cancelled.
