ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e88	The representatives Jan Boehler and Solfrid Lerbreck, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that the vote from now on will take place in the usual way, i.e. by using the buttons in the place of the representatives. The President will therefore ask the representatives to sit in their own place quickly when voting is called, so that voting can be carried out without undue delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e113	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e120	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on constructive cooperation in a difficult situation. The case is that the Ministry of Knowledge has proposed amendments to the Civil Code and the Introduction Act. These amendments are proposed in the light of the EU Data Protection Regulation. In May 2018, the Storting adopted a new personal data law implementing the EU Data Protection Regulation. Before this entry into force, the processing of personal data by the national authorities was based on the necessity criterion of the previous Data Protection Act, and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs had the consent of the Data Protection Authority to process personal data. The new Data Protection Act no longer allows the Data Protection Authority to grant such a concession and, under the new Regulation, the national authorities need a supplementary legal basis for the processing of personal data. Furthermore, it also regulates access to automated decision-making and provides that access to automated decision-making is to be enshrined in a legal basis. It is in the light of these practical changes or adaptations to new laws that this proposition has been put in place. The Committee has reached a broad consensus on the need for amendments and the need to adapt the necessary legal bases for the processing of personal data under the new EU regulation. The Committee has stressed the importance of ensuring the privacy of individuals. Only SV have different proposals from what is proposed in the proposition. I assume that they will explain their own vision. With that, at least the Party of Advancement joins the proposal of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e137	Today, we are dealing with a case with the background of a new EU data protection regulation. The Ministry proposes the right of the national authorities to obtain the necessary information from different bodies, without prejudice to professional secrecy, in relation to the requirements of the National Act on Norwegian training and knowledge of Norwegian oral and social knowledge. In the Introduction Act, the Ministry proposes to include the use of automated decisions in the regulatory home of the Introduction Act. The working party agrees that the use of automated decisions may involve both increased efficiency and improved resource use. At the same time, we must recognise that the outcome of an application for Norwegian citizenship has a significant impact on the applicant, and this makes great demands on the framework for such decisions. In order to ensure confidence in public administration and to ensure that the opportunities offered by technology can be exploited effectively, it is essential to establish the basis of transparency, reliability and reprobability in both automated decisions and decision-making bases that are essential to the subject. In the work on the National Transport Plan adopted in 2017, it states: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal to ensure transparency of algorithms that provide the basis for decisions that have a significant impact on individuals or society. The proposal should assess the need and who, where appropriate, should certify and control such algorithms.’;» The working party lacks clarification of transparency requirements and who is responsible for checking the basis for the automatic decisions. It's a shame the government didn't take the time to clarify this. Such control is of great importance both to ensure reliability and correct decision-making and to ensure that more advanced automations in the future do not reproduce systematic biases in the historical manual decisions, so-called algorithmic discrimination. The national strategy for artificial intelligence establishes good ethical principles for the use of artificial intelligence, but this must be followed up in practical action in administration. Setting up these frameworks from the start will help ensure that the necessary trust and frameworks are in place to exploit more advanced technologies in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e153	SV agrees that the use of automated decisions can involve both increased efficiency and improved resource use, and supports the proposal for a basis for the use of automated decisions under the Introduction Act. On the other hand, SV does not support the proposal on the use of automated decisions in civil matters. The outcome of an application for Norwegian citizenship has a significant impact on the applicant and it is essential that automated decisions are linked to specific and specified case portfolios in the form of law, not to an authorisation to decide which issues should be covered by a regulation. Several hearing bodies have raised serious objections to the fact that the terms of the legislative proposal on the adequacy of the processing and ‘the decision does not contain discretionary considerations’ are too vague in the proposal. A restriction may, for example: is that automated decisions are used only for the purposes of approval and – as several hearing bodies have pointed out – that all rejections need to be manually reviewed. SV considers that all decisions affecting children must be dealt with manually. Children have their own rights, and we also point out that in case 71, fully automated decisions, including profiling, should not apply to children. The government's answer to this is that this is not so much applicable to children in civil matters. They point out that it will often be the parent, or the parent, who acts on behalf of the child to the authorities and assumes that the superiors will respect the rights and freedoms of the child. It is worth noting that the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, in its opinion, states that although some provisions and conditions of citizenship law are discretionary, it will be possible to decide individual cases on the basis of predefined criteria which do not involve the use of judgement. This underlines the importance of the issues in which automated decisions can be taken and must be defined by law in order to set clear limits. The government also shows itself that the home of automated decisions may include matters subject to terms formulated in a discretionary manner and outlines the condition of a clear identity as an example. SV considers that it is not sufficient for all complaints to be dealt with manually, that the legal framework has to be defined much more than that laid down by the government, and that the conditions for the use of automated decisions should be set out in the national law, not in the regulation. The law should also provide for all complaints to be handled manually. I would like to include the SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e170	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, has addressed SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e175	The aim of the changes we are adopting today is to provide the public authorities with a clear basis for the treatment of personal data in civil matters. National authorities’ tasks under the Civil Code maintain the processing of personal data on many – a large number – foreign and Norwegian citizens. In civil law, the Department proposes a general licence for the processing of personal data in a new section 29(a). The proposal allows the public authorities to process the necessary personal data when necessary for the exercise of authority or for the performance of other tasks under civil law. Right-wing supports this. In the Introduction Act, the Ministry proposes to include the use of automated decisions in regulation homes in Section 25. The right-hand side also supports this. Citizenship is a right if the seeker fulfils certain conditions. Under the general rule of the Civil Code § 7, it is required that the identity of the seeker is clarified and that the seeker has reached the age of 12. In addition, the seeker is required to be resident in Norway and intends to continue to do so, and that the seeker has or fills the conditions for permanent residence under the foreign law and has a total of seven years of residence in Norway during the last 10 years. The applicant must fulfil the requirements for completed Norwegian and Norwegian oral and social knowledge. Applicants who are convicted of punishment or other criminal response must have been through the withdrawal period. In many cases, these terms and conditions that I am currently enclosing, and which are imposed as rights to Norwegian citizenship, can be decided on the basis of simple pre-defined criteria that can be automated. Citizens' matters, both authorisation and refusal, are therefore well-suited for mechanical treatment. Applicants shall be entitled to a manual review of the decision. This will be the case both in the Foreign Affairs Directorate and in the Foreign Affairs Department. The Foreign Affairs Directorate shall also have regular manual checks on the use of automated decisions and both positive and negative decisions shall be verified. So I feel confident that legal certainty will be well preserved by the use of automated decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e190	The EU Data Protection Regulation requires a supplementary legal basis for the processing of general and specific categories of personal data in the exercise of public authority. The proposal proposes amendments to the Civil Code and the Introduction Act accordingly. A general basis for the processing of personal data is proposed in the Civil Code. The proposal provides that the national law will explicitly allow the national authority to process personal data where necessary for the exercise of powers or for the exercise of other functions under the national law. No more data shall be collected or otherwise processed than the purpose of the processing requires. It is proposed that the King should be able to provide detailed rules on, inter alia, the following: the purposes for which personal data may be processed, the use of automated decisions and the access to further processing of personal data for new purposes. In many cases, the conditions governing the right to Norwegian citizenship can be determined on the basis of simple, predefined criteria, as several speakers in the case have been. Citizenship matters are therefore well suited for mechanical treatment. Decisions based solely on automated processing of personal data cannot be based on discretionary legal or regulatory conditions unless the decision is dubious. Applicants shall be entitled to a manual review of the decision and the UDI shall also carry out regular manual checks on the use of automated decisions. Such controls and manual review procedures are good measures to protect the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of the data subject under the Data Protection Regulation. The same applies to the rules of the Administrative Act on the obligation to provide guidance and investigation, prior notification and opposition, the obligation to state reasons and the right to apply. In the case of decisions affecting children, it is considered that the superiors will respect the rights and freedoms of the child. Furthermore, the use of fully automated decisions is limited to cases that do not contain discretionary judgements. In this context, children are therefore not more vulnerable than other applicants. The obligations of the applicants and the right of the national authorities to obtain the necessary information from other public bodies have been consolidated on the same basis. The proposal proposes that the disclosure obligations of other bodies be separated into a separate section of the law, so that we can have a better structure and make the provisions more user-friendly. The national authorities are currently obtaining information on education and training necessary to assess whether the language requirement of the national law is met by the applicants. The effectiveness and control of this information is intended to be obtained without going through the applicants. Therefore, the proposal proposes the necessary basis for it in the proposal. Finally, the amendments proposed by the Introduction Act allow the Ministry to provide for the use of automated decisions. Immigrants have to take final samples in Norwegian and social knowledge under the Introduction Act, and some of these samples are censored in an automatic system. The regulation on the use of automated decisions based on the Introduction Act will be sent to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e211	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e216	The Labour Party lacks, as already mentioned by the Chair, clarification of transparency requirements and who is responsible for checking the basis for the automatic decisions. Such control is of great importance both to ensure reliable and correct decisions and to ensure that more advanced automation in the future does not reproduce systematic biases in the historical manual decisions, so-called algorithmic discrimination. My question is then: why did the government not take the time to clarify transparency requirements and who is responsible for checking the basis for the automatic decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e221	Thank you for the question. The representative points to a very important question. It is important that such an automated decision is not at the expense of legal certainty, and we believe that this is well taken care of. The right to review the decision manually is granted. Everyone has the opportunity to appeal a decision, and it is handled manually. In addition, the UDI shall carry out regular manual inspections of the use, in order, inter alia, to: take samples. This is done both for those who have received a recognised citizenship and for those who have been rejected. In this way, we believe that we have good measures to protect the rights of individuals, but also to avoid what the representative pointed to, namely that it becomes an algorithmic bias.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e229	The national strategy for artificial intelligence establishes good ethical principles for the use of precisely artificial intelligence. It also points out that this needs to be followed up in practical management action, and putting in place these frameworks from the start will help ensure that the necessary trust and framework is in place to exploit more advanced technologies in the future. So why did it rush with this work so that the government did not take the time to clarify the framework for dealing with automatic decisions in a wider perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e234	My opinion is that it is well clear how the use of automated decisions is to be controlled in this case, both by having the right to apply for manual review and by UDI to carry out verification. I have very good faith that this is being followed up in a good way. I also believe that this is a type of case that is very suitable for automatic treatment, as there are very clear and clear criteria to be met. And then it's also very clear which issues should not be part of the automated treatment. So my opinion is that this is very well taken care of in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e241	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e260	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e267	It is very gratifying that today we are going to adopt a new law on religious and life-seeking societies. I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for the work it has done in this regard. Of course, I am very pleased with the consensus that now exists on the law, and also for the goodwill that all parties have shown with regard to writing together in the widest possible committee remarks. Closer to 85 pst. of the population of Norway belongs to a religious or life-viewing society. Among these, the Norwegian Church is clearly the largest with its 3.7 million members and members. Today, there are about 860 religious and life views in our country, and these represent a rich supply of communities and activities to different groups of the population — ranging from activities for children and young people, to family counselling, visiting services, integration work, drug abuse and deacony, just to mention something. They carry out extensive social work and, as a whole, form a significant part of the civil sector. Our society is changing rapidly, and the new law of belief and life renews and simplifies legislation. Three laws now become one, and the fact that older laws are now being revitalised and adapted to the present, provides a good framework for a sustainable future for a life-viewed society. A clear objective of this creed law has been to facilitate the conduct of an active and supportive belief and life-view policy, which ensures the diversity of beliefs and life-views, and which has room for faith and expression of faith in public space. The relationship between state, society, religion and outlook on life has become increasingly prominent in Norway over the past decade, as in other countries, and the law we are about to adopt today can contribute to non-discrimination and greater overallity and coherence in the laws of the religious and life-view societies. This day also has a historical suspense over it, as the last job of separating church and state is finally in goal. The Norwegian Church is now given its autonomy through its own framework law and is free from overarching from the Stortinget. The church meeting takes over the former government authority and is empowered to lay down detailed rules on church organisation and division, church bodies and church elections. The law acknowledges equally fully that the Norwegian Church should continue to play an important role both in society and in the lives of individuals. The Norwegian Church is the bearer of our cultural heritage and is important for the preservation of both traditions and identity. Public support for the belief and life-view societies is a recognition of what they mean for individuals and as a building force for society, and it must also provide a financial basis for the belief and life-view communities to be active contributors to our society. The new law goes on to a large extent today's financing system, which respects both the Norwegian Church and treats all religious and life views equally. Financial responsibility shared between the State and the municipality is maintained. This means that the State will continue to grant grants to the services and activities of the Church nationally and regionally, and that the municipalities will finance the activities of the Church locally and have financial responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the church buildings. This helps to ensure stability and the necessary predictability. It is also established that religious and life-seeking communities with at least 50 members can receive grants and that children are counted as members. At the same time, there has been a need to clarify in which cases religious and life views can be denied grants, even if the threshold remains high. For a very large number of people, the belief and life-view communities constitute important communities that have an impact on the belonging and identity of humans. It is therefore important that they also facilitate democracy, transparency and representation. I am pleased that today we are going to adopt a new law of belief and belief – a law that recognises the importance of faith in human life, and that states that Norway is a transparent society of life, where freedom of belief and freedom of religion are a fundamental human right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e290	Norway has a Christian and humanist heritage, and the Workers' Party wants us to take it with us in the meeting with today's diverse societies. Freedom of faith is a human right. The freedom to believe and to exercise their religion shall be side by side with the freedom not to believe, convert, disqualify or criticize religion. Democracy is not a democracy without freedom of faith, and freedom of faith is not a freedom without democracy. In the troubled times we now live, we see clearly how faith and vision of life characterize our lives. Mercy and solidarity four people their lives to help others because they think it's right. We see congregations that contribute to voluntary work, life - vision houses and churches that care for their members and their faith in a difficult time for many. But we also see communities and publishers who exploit insecurity and who use it for the cynical exploitation of vulnerable people. As in politics, national and international, there is also a clear polarisation in the field of religion and life. The number of religious and life-seeking communities has increased from 488 to about 488. 850 in the last 20 years. The number of members has now increased to 655000. About ten years ago, we got the broad church agreement, which established looser ties between state and church, with the aim of continuing and strengthening the people's church, and we got the Steelsett Committee's review and legislative proposals in 2013. The government’s consultation note agreed with the Steelset Committee on the need for a higher number of requirements for religious communities to be registered, seek financial support and get marriage rights. Furthermore, in order to exercise more effective and in-depth control of compliance with legal requirements and conditions, it is said that the number of religious and life-view societies needs to be significantly reduced. Reference was also made to simplification and efficiency reasons and fewer commitments to control and follow-up. The government proposed a minimum of 500 members. The possibilities for joining an organisational superstructure and exemption were identified, and reference was made to Sweden, where the number of members is set at 3000. It is easy to understand that the representatives of the Christian People's Party are satisfied with a number of demands of 50. One can only wonder that the other government parties and a completely free-flowing Progress Party have accepted this. The Labour Party is behind the government's original proposal and is promoting our proposals on it. In the debate on State aid guidelines and withdrawals, the arguments have been about the need to protect the communities of faith and life. The Labour Party agrees, and that is why clear guidelines are needed. No matter what frame you wrap suppression into, suppression is unacceptable. Discrimination and exclusion of persons based on sex, ethnicity, social status or sexual orientation are unacceptable. The overall value is that all people have the right to be who they are, and to be met with respect and equivalency. The freedom not to be discriminated against must outweigh the freedom to discriminate. The Labour Party has good dialogue with many religious and life-view societies. We believe that this is important because religious and life-sight societies and the state manage each of their important pillars in democracy. We believe that there is a need for more dialogue, not less. Together, we need to find ways out of discriminatory practices and contribute to processes that ensure that they are changed, that belief and life-view societies become more transparent, democratic and inclusive. That, we believe, will strengthen confidence in the religious and life-view societies. This dialogue we have called the social contract. The state has had a long, wide and open dialogue with the Norwegian Church on, among others. female priests and homosexuals. The democratic processes and laws that came gave women and homosexuals strong legal protection in the Church. It is a fact that believing people in Norway today are exposed to what can be described as a theological attack. These include: on the recovery and condemnation of sexual orientation and exclusion by using the right to vote – the main right of democracy. Such a practice cannot be supported by a State which defends human rights. For many people, belief and life-view societies constitute important communities. They have a bearing on belonging and identity and may be anchored for broad voluntary involvement. The need for more dialogue with the religious and life-view societies and the preservation of the Church of People and its cooperation with the local communities are important for the Workers' Party. I refer you to the setting and address the suggestions we are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e315	The representative Kari Henriksen then addressed the Labour Party's proposal and the proposals of the Workers' Party are part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e320	Yes, dear assembly: This is a historic day. The new religion law that we are adopting today marks the final distinction between state and church. I am pleased that the Committee agrees that the objective of the law is to facilitate an active, liberal and open belief and life-view policy in Norway. Since the 1800s, there has been a reform process of legislation on the Norwegian Church. There has been an ever-increasing delegation from the state to the elected church bodies. Lawmaking of support for religious communities other than the Norwegian Church was adopted in 1962, and it is a recognition that we no longer have a uniform society. The grant committee started the process of changes in the state church system, and of it followed a democratic reform. In 2012, the Church Council was given the assignment authority over both pros and bishops, after an earlier long discussion, and the Norwegian Church became its own legal entity in 2017. The church was now also responsible for the employers of prosthetics, bishops and the other administration associated with the Church. Well to note, the state's financial responsibility for the Church was unchanged, and the sole legal position of the parishioners as the smallest basic unit in the Norwegian Church was continued. It has also continued here in the new law. Why this historical reflection? Well, because society is changing, and the laws are changing as it does. This is not a fast process, but a slow process, and I think it's been good, because as I said, we're not a uniform people anymore. The share that is not a member of the religious and life-view societies is increasing, and there are also many life-view and religious communities outside the Norwegian Church and perhaps the largest we have of the human-ethical society. We have religious communities for Muslims, Jews, Sikhs and Catholics, and in particular the Catholic community is increasing as a result of immigration. I am pleased that the grant schemes should support this precisely with freedom of belief and life. It's a trade mark in a democratic society, and it also contributes to an open society. From the Right we are pleased with the continuation of the public funding of the Norwegian Church and that we are receiving a grant scheme for other religious and life-seeking communities. Then I note that there is a debate on this with the number of members who are going to be entitled to a grant. For us it has been important to listen to everyone who has thought anything about this, and we have made it clear that there are 50 members who should be the roof of it. In fact, there are also quite a number of societies with fewer than 50 members who live an active and good life in their religious community. Democracy, transparency and representation should be facilitated – the Committee has been made clear in its comments – but it should be done in such a way that we take care of freedom of faith, and we should not interfere with the theological considerations of the life-vision societies, even if it can never be so tempting. But the right to exercise its faith is not absolute. Sometimes it has to be weighed against fundamental rights, for example: human rights. There has been a need to clarify in the law in which cases religious and life-seeking communities can be denied grants. It is clear that the exercise of violence, coercion and violation of the rights and freedoms of others provides an opportunity to exempt grants, but it may also be punishable. Substantial reporting requirements have also been included in the law for those receiving grants. Now it is the Church meeting that takes over the authorities that were previously to the state, and is given authority to lay down detailed rules on the organisation. I believe that the Church is best placed to care for these matters, not the Stortinget, and in line with the Church's own wish, the shared financial responsibility between the State and the Municipality is maintained. We're happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e335	Faith is one of the most important things in many of us human lives, but faith is also one of the most personal things we have. It's our own personal contact with the higher powers we have to choose or not choose to put our trust in, and it's our contact with what cannot be explained, but that can still be one of the most meaningful things we have. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that public authorities should have a very, very limited role in each of their relations with precisely this: faith. That being said, we have great respect and recognition that faith and the community, which are often also part of our family community, are a very important part of people's lives. But the principle, that faith is something very personal – and that one should not be imposed on the standards and ways of living of others, which unfortunately is not the case in a large number of countries in the world today – means that the Progress Party believes that faith is a private matter and that the operation of religious communities should not be financed by the public. It is therefore a pleasure, on behalf of the Progress Party, to take up the Committee's proposal to abolish public funding for religious communities. Unfortunately, no other party has given its support to the position of the Progress Party in principle, and this proposal will therefore fall today. We have therefore had talks and discussions with the government parties, and the Progress Party is pleased that we have had some important and clear impact on subsidiary support for the government parties. I would therefore also like to congratulate the Council of State and the Government parties on their success today, but I would like to talk more about the achievements of the Progress Party and of which we are proud. The background to these achievements of the Progress Party is that we in the world today have far too many examples of radical ideas and extremism spreading, the implementation of unculture and discrimination against minorities, and the suppression and abandonment of the fundamental freedoms of the individual in the name of religion. This millennium began in many ways with the September 11 attack, and the fight against IS and terrorist attacks that have marked both Europe and elsewhere has unfortunately also been part of the last two decades. It has been shown that religion is often used to spread radical religious ideas, Islamism or other types of religious delusions, at different levels. It could be through YouTube and the Internet, it could be through post-school offers and it could be in other ways. And even though religion is very important in our lives, we also have an obligation to stop those who use religion to front those kind of radical ideas. In the Progress Party, therefore, we are pleased that today we have a majority in this Chamber to adopt a legal text that makes it possible for religious communities that receive support from countries that do not themselves respect the right to freedom of religion, often authoritarian countries, to lose the right to support from Norway, i.e. those religious communities that accept support from such countries, to lose the right to support from Norway. We do not accept that countries that do not themselves respect freedom of religion should participate and rule over Norwegian religious communities. We have also known over time that Norwegian young people with a migrant background are being sent abroad to attend so-called Koran Schools. In the fall, the Evening Post revealed how we have also had these kinds of Koran SFOs in Norway, which we believe have been unfortunate because these are fixed teaching arrangements, without transparency, which can contribute to segregation and are anti-integrative. We are therefore pleased that there is also a majority in this Chamber to ask the government to come back with a case that prohibits this kind of teaching arrangements that have overnight stays and that can be a hindrance to integration. I am also pleased that it is adopted today that there is a desire to continue the work of preventing children and young people from being sent abroad to Koran School. This is something that we know is happening. There have been several stories in the media recently about youth, born and raised in Norway, which, against their will, are being sent abroad and placed in Koran schools where there is evidence that there is both torture, the use of violence and other types of things that we cannot be aware of. It is important to stop children and young people from being sent to these kinds of schools. All in all, the Progress Party is pleased with the matter we are dealing with today. It is an important matter that is being dealt with. Unfortunately, we have not had an impact on our primary position on the abolition of public funding for religious communities, but we support the government's proposals, with some clear implications that are important to us, not least in the Koran School field.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e358	The representative of Himanshu Gulati has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e363	The field of faith and life is about fundamental human rights, which is protected by the Constitution. Religion and vision of life are a central dimension of many people's lives, and many religions are also great traditional and cultural bearers, not least the Norwegian Church, our important Church of People. The Central Party believes that the Church, religion and view of life remain a public matter, and then both the State and the municipality play an important role in supporting people’s ability to exercise faith and view of life. Today, we decide to merge three laws in the field of faith and life into one. The Centre Party considers that such coordination and harmonisation of the legislation may be appropriate. We as a party are concerned that in the pluralist Norway we have today, we must support all forms of non-discrimination of faith and view of life. That's why the symbol value of this new law is good. But we probably believe that the gain of this common law is primarily about simplification and some clarifications, it does not mean a real strengthening of freedom of faith or a more active and supportive belief and life-view policy than the existing law does. In addition, in the Central Party, we believe that the new law goes far too far in deregulating the Norwegian Church, in the light of its special position in our people, the intention of the church settlement and the importance of maintaining the basis of a local presence as a real people's church. The Minister invited us to a broad agreement on such an important law, and we in the Central Party want to be constructive in such negotiations, in particular in order to improve the important chapter on the Norwegian Church, so that in the future we can be sure that we as a state have really arranged for the Church of Nations to be given the opportunity to signify and contribute as much as it has the potential for – throughout the country and in all its socks. But as everyone knows, the minister suddenly landed an agreement with the Progress Party, and the result was such a deregulated chapter on the Norwegian Church that it might as well have been to have a separate church law, where the Storting could have focused more on how our people's church should continue to evolve to become even more relevant. So today, unfortunately, more proposals are being voted on to strengthen the people's church, such as keeping church elections together with municipal elections. The same applies to the proposal of the Centre Party that the Government should come back with a case to strengthen the position of the Soknet and to continue the legalisation of the Council of Commons and to clarify the location of employers' responsibilities for local church employees. I have a few years behind me as the municipality's representative in the Joint Council at Notodden. Both in this way and when I have visited many congregations around the country recently, it is told how important the council is to build bridges between municipalities and communities, and also as an employer. I'm surprised that the government can't help securing the future of this important function. It is more gratifying, then, that the government at the tamp of committee work agreed to at least legislate that the municipal grant would also apply to some of the posts that had been left out in the bill, such as the organization and offices. It will be important to ensure the quality of the people's church in the future and of the administration and recruitment of church music, which is a significant part of our cultural heritage. With regard to the rest of the law being promoted today, it is positive that an overall committee is promoting several proposals together. But there are many things we in the Centre Party disagree with, especially as regards the requirements that should be set in order to receive state subsidies. The Government proposes to set a minimum of 50 members in order to receive grants. We believe that the number requirement should be adjusted to 100 members, and refer to the 2013 Steel Committee investigation, where a majority voted in favour of it. It will provide better control, supervision and follow-up than at just 50 – as well as real opportunities for dialogue with the different religious and life- views. The Central Party is therefore promoting its own proposal. Otherwise, the centre party considers that there is a need for good and effective control mechanisms to ensure that the intentions of the law and the conditions under which grants are granted are complied with. In addition, it is also important in view of trust and the legitimacy of the scheme in the population. In addition to annual reporting by religious and life-view societies, see: Section 7 therefore supports proposals in the Centre Party that supervision through physical and unannounced visits must also take place. The Central Party, together with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, has several other proposals, which will also provide for a better distribution of state subsidies, and is of course disappointed that the government does not agree with them as the wise proposal to evaluate the new guidelines for state subsidies, and of course the proposal that we in this area, as elsewhere in society, should set requirements of 40 pst. representation of women in governing bodies receiving public support. I have to say, in my opinion, it is a paradox that the Stortingeton today is raising the importance of equality between the religious and life-view societies, but that the government and the Progress Party at the same time do not think equality is equally important in the same religious and life-view societies. With that heart attack, I take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e388	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e393	This is a law and a proposition that touches on some of the deepest in many people, on major societal issues and on the framework conditions of large and small businesses. That's why I think it's a pity that the government didn't go to the entire opposition to make a collective compromise on belief and life-seeing policy, as the Storting has done before. Instead, the government received hardly a majority, along with just one party, the Advance Party. So big a question and so many interested ones deserve predictability, that all the batches come together for a result that can last for a while. On the SV side, it has in any case been an objective to achieve as much agreement as possible in this matter, and fortunately we have been able to write together on a good part of the committee. In this work, SV has wanted to be a driver of an active, liberal and open belief and life-view policy that ensures the diversity of faith and life, equality and the completion of the distinction between state and church. We must be supportive of a diversity of beliefs and views of life, including in public space. But we're not going to favor someone's view of the expense of others, and it requires a secular state that can support everyone on the same line. The best way to protect important values such as equality and respect for human rights in the belief and life-view societies is not to withdraw from society, but to oppose an active belief and life-view policy with contact points and dialogue between society and faith-society. It is an important objective of an open policy of faith and life to protect freedom of belief and life, for it is a fundamental human right that all people have the right to freedom of thought, freedom of conscience and freedom of belief. This is put at the forefront of the fight against discrimination, hatred and hoarseness on the basis of religion or supposed religious background. Islamophobia and antisemitism, including: from an emerging right-wing extreme environment that has repeatedly taken on terrorist attacks against our Godshouses, shows how important this struggle is now. Then the big community has an important role to play in caring for our religious minorities and taking care of what kind of debate climate we ourselves contribute to. But we need to be clear in our dialogue with the religious and life-seeing communities, in particular in the fight against negative social control, for equality, for the rights of gliding and for the protection of children's rights. The important battle takes place in society itself, because faith is not unchangeable either – courageous women and men who take the lead in taboo questions, healthy internal debates that go forward. We must support and contribute to that struggle. Then SV believes that we need to take a more active role, and the most important way to do it is through dialogue, increasingly open channels to all religious and life-view societies. It can take time, it's demanding, but it works. To engage in dialogue, we need to have greater transparency about what is happening in the belief and life-view societies. There can't be any closed rooms in Tros-Norway, and we have to be clearer on the requirements, with a rice behind the mirror, knocking down more clearly on gross overtramp, because freedom of faith cannot be used as a free card to deprive people of other fundamental human rights. Therefore, the SV encourages several proposals in this room to clarify the new criteria for exempting State aid and additional requirements. We can, for example: not only accept without further delay that religious communities make use of the exemption from the Equality and Discrimination Act. So SV must be included, among others. the proposals No 2, 3 and 4 – although it was not included in the setting – if, among other things. requirements for equal opportunities in governing bodies. Finally, something about the Norwegian Church and funding: As long as the Norwegian Church has its constitutional role as a nation-wide national church, we think it is right to make some demands in the form of law. It is also important to maintain a few more demands from the previous law, such as an inclusive church democracy or demands for tidy employer relationships locally. Therefore SV is involved in such proposals. But it is worth remembering that the Storting in this session has a draft constitution from SV to complete the distinction between state and church. In a situation where the church does not have the current position in the Constitution, this would also differ. As far as funding is concerned, I am pleased that we got the majority of the committee to point out that it needs to be sustainable in the long term. With that, I take up the suggestions SV is alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e415	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e420	The events of the past few weeks have made it clear that important and perhaps even historical events here in the Storing have come to the fore. One of the issues raised in the Korona shadow is the decision on the law of religious and life-view societies. It is a milestone in a development of the relationship between state and church which began with the French revolution – nothing less – and which in our Western tradition has gradually led to a necessary dissolution of the relationship between secular power and faith, in my view. In 2008, the Stortinget decided, on the basis of the position of the Gjønnes Committee, to repeal or amend seven constitutional paragraphs on the relationship between state and church. At that time the Left's representative Trine Skei Grande marked himself in the debate by pointing out that the State no longer needs the Church to exercise its power. That's exactly what we're saying and the principal reason why we're standing here today. The rational exercise of authority has finally haunted our country. A paraphrase of the Bible is in place: The Great One has received the things of the Great One, and God has received the things of God. Then it is those who claim that the law of faith and life society marks the final distinction between state and church in the Norwegian Constitution. That's obviously not the case. Paragraph 4 of the Constitution still stands, which obliges the King always to confess, as it says, «the Evangelical Lutheran religion» and which strongly contradicts Section 16 that all inhabitants of the kingdom «have free religious practices». Removing this paragraph, Section 4, has been the Left's position for a long time, and it is still. Even more special is the reason why we still have this strange survival rule. It is a matter of the King, after an exact recipe from the corresponding institutional treatment in Sweden some years before, directly intervened in the legislative process. I can't see it any other way than that this belongs to a remarkableness in our constitution, and that we need to look at – without this being the time for a longer interpretation of the theme. Today it is about the place of faith in our society in a broader sense. ‘God is Back’ argued two British academics with close ties to The Economist magazine in a much-discussed book from 2009. They argued that belief, even in through-scularised societies, has gained a stronger place. The two believe this has to do with the ongoing democratization of religious societies. It's not hard to see that this also happens in our society. The churchroom has been given a completely different status today than 60 years ago, when I was sent by farms in Sunday school with hymns and flanellographers. In the 1950s, it was quite unthinkable that the churches, at least in my homelands, could be filled with rock concerts and debates on secular themes, where all religious communities or people with different sexual orientations with the same tolerance were welcomed. Paradoxically, this – and I would also call it a democratizing development – has gone parallel to an increasing degree of ritualism, at least in the Norwegian Church. Rites and symbols have been given a place that, half a century ago, would have been perceived as a bit too pompous or Catholic, as someone would have called it. It has, for example, have been researched on how this has been expressed through the difference in the signalling ceremonies in 1958 and 1991. As I see it, it has to do with identity building, which does not conflict with the degradation of mysticism in our church – underlined by the fact that there are now less than half of the members of the church who are christening their children. There are obviously more and more people who today consider the domestic waters above their heads of an unconscious child who is beyond mystical and perhaps unnecessary. In return, the element of adult baptism is becoming more and more comprehensive. My point is – to the extent that some people in this room wonder where I want to go – that belief in today's society is now more the expression of a conscious, enlightened and reflective choice, less than the reflection of inherited ideas and social pressure. I believe such a development is underpinned by the present draft law. In this way, I particularly appreciate the broad consensus on which the law is based here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e439	This is a great day, a day with historical suss over it and a day that I have long enjoyed. Today, the Storting adopts a new belief and life-view law – the last step in the distinction between state and church where three laws become one, a law that underpins the creative power of religious communities, and that preserves the diversity of religious and life-view societies that we have in Norway. It also underpins the importance of faith in man's life, and I would say that it is appropriate that the Storting should be dealt with in the midst of a terrible time when the coronavirus is strikingly, in the midst of human life, so important. In 2012, the Stortinget adopted historical changes to the Constitution, stressing freedom of belief and life, that the Norwegian Church has the status of a church of people and that all religious and life-view societies should be supported on the same footing. The Norwegian vision of faith and life is constantly changing, and the legislative proposal is based on an active, supportive belief and life-view policy that recognises that belief and view of life are important aspects of human development and that belief and vision of life have a natural place in society. The grant schemes support freedom of belief and life and contribute to a transparent society. The public funding of the Norwegian Church and a grant scheme for communities of faith and life based on equal treatment are continued. The civil society with 50 or more members shall be entitled to a grant. It has been important for me that the smaller communities should be able to receive support just to preserve the diversity we have today. At the same time, we simplify the grant schemes for communities of faith and life by assuming the financial responsibility of the municipalities. Of course, religious and life-seeking societies have to deal with Norwegian law. At the same time, there has been a need to clarify in which cases religious and life-seeking communities can be denied grants. The belief and life-view communities shall be safe for all, and the threshold for refusing grants shall be high. The legislative proposal involves a reduction and simplification of the legal provisions on the Norwegian Church, in line with the Church Meeting's wish for a brief framework law and is a natural consequence for the separation of state and church. The church meeting assumes the authority previously vested in the State and is empowered to lay down detailed rules on church organisation and division, church bodies and church elections. I note that the red-green opposition does not fully agree with this and would like to retain the state's authority in several areas. Here we disagree in principle. I believe the Church is best to care for its affairs and not the Stortinget. The sockets are and become the basic units, and they are passed on as independent units that cannot be detached from the Norwegian Church. The church meeting may decide that one or more bodies shall perform the tasks of several parishes. In line with the Church's own wish, the shared financial responsibility between the State and the municipality is maintained. The State shall continue to grant a grant to the services and activities of the Church nationally and regionally. Municipalities shall finance the activities of the Church locally and have financial responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the church buildings. In this connection, I refer to the treatment of Stortingen after the information about the Information Society's fund and the solution we have found there. Furthermore, the municipalities shall ensure that the socks are adequately manned by religious services and acts and provide adequate administrative assistance. The legal regulation of municipal responsibility towards the Norwegian Church is designed somewhat different from today and is adapted to the budget-driven framework funding of the Church, which is largely practiced by the municipalities. I have noticed that the committee has seen the need to clarify in the legal text that the municipalities should also cover church servants, clocks, organist and offices at each church. This was also the intention behind the government's proposal. As far as the cemetery management is concerned, today’s normal system is continued with the burial site authority added to a local body in the Norwegian Church, but the County can decide, upon a request from the municipality, that the burial site responsibility is transferred to the municipality. As I started with, this is a happy day. I am very pleased that we have now come so far that the Storting can adopt a new, common law of religious and life-viewing societies as a clear anchoring of the open-minded society of life. It is a very important value to create a good and inclusive society for all, and I thank the Committee for important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e475	The Labour Party wants to closely follow the faith and life-view societies through increased dialogue. That is why we are proposing a preventive and continuous dialogue between the state and the religious and life-view societies. The government put forward proposals for 500 members to receive support in the consultation note. It was justified that the control did not function well enough, and that the follow-up possibilities were challenging — at a time of far fewer religious communities to control and follow-up. When the bill came to Stortingen, the number requirement was reduced to 50 members, without strengthening the control measures with increased resources. What assessments has the government made to justify a reduction in the need for control while at the same time increasing the number of religious communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e482	First, I would like to say that I should not discuss or say what was the reason for the government at the time you sent out a number of 500 claims. In the Law of Life's Vision, the requirement was 500, and when you joined the two laws, I'm assuming that 500 would play in that way. There is no doubt that it has been important for the Christian People's Party to have an impact on a lower number of demands than what was. As many people have had to attend; the hearing was massive, there was little support for the number requirement of 500, and then I think it is right for the government to listen to it. I note that the Workers' Party's proposal of 500 would contribute to the loss of support of 649 religious communities in 2018 – the figures are from there. I think that would be dramatic for the diversity of religious and life views that you have in the country. I believe that even smaller religious communities should be able to receive support. Then I also react a little to the argument that several people have that this should contribute to more dialogue. I don't think so. I think that, on the contrary, can contribute to more closed religious communities. That is why the dialogue with the representative started is important to focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e487	We're talking about faith here, too. Governments say that 649 communities would lose support, and many are at risk of losing support. Then I don't think the Council of State has read the draft consultation presented to the government before the Christian People's Party came into government, well enough, because it also says good arrangements for exceptions, that one can have superstructures of religious communities. These include: done in Sweden, as I said in my post, where the number is set at 3,000 members to receive support. But what I'm asking about, and the government doesn't respond to, is control. For some of the purposes, which this government with the Christian People's Party is also concerned with, is to clarify control. It says the government is important, but they don't put any leads on the table, either resources or capacity for the state to follow this up better, now that we've almost had a doubling of the number of members and religious communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e494	There is a description I do not agree with at all. Now, clear reporting is linked to getting a grant, and I also see a simplified process, that it becomes easy for the religious communities to fill in, and that way one could get a better overview. It is clear that if, through reporting or by other means, something is revealed that is of concern, we have now made it clear in the legislation that is being passed, the basis for refusing or withdrawing grants. At the same time, there can be a suspicion that further supervision needs to be carried out. So I mean here it's strengthened, both what goes on control, and what's going on is getting a better idea of what you're worried about. But then there is also a balance here – and I thought when I heard Kari Henriksen's contribution: Is there really something positive in the direction of the religious and life-view society? Because you just focus on all the negatives. That's why I want to make it clear that there's so much amazing work going on in the direction of these organisations, and it's based on the fact that you're initially going to have a trust – these are non-governmental organisations that are making a great effort for their members.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e499	I believe the Council of State and I can agree that the distinction is now stronger between state and church, but I think it was a good post from the representative of the Left, with some good points that we are not quite there yet. But we're on our way. We know that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party primarily disagree on the financing model, because the Advance Party will remove all support for the belief and life-view society. I would like to ask the Council of State something that is a bit on the side, and that was updated in the Easter. It's about people who have lived long lives in religious communities who are very controversial and like controlling – people who simply have to seek help to break or to get a good life outside the religious community. There we can see that, among other things: The help source has been an important factor. Will the Council of State consider how to help those who break as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e506	Thank you for an important question. I agree that unfortunately it is a religious society that acts in a way that is not good. Nor does it necessarily have to be illegal what is being done, but members have been harmed, which in some cases can be serious. Before the representative himself said that, I was going to refer to the source of help, which I also have a very good impression of, which makes an important job of meeting people who have experienced the same thing. We are also concerned that there is that kind of help service, and then it is clear that the ordinary course of health care is also extremely important to them. But I think that the law that is passed today can help make it more transparent and more reporting related to activities, and hopefully you will be able to find out if there is something that is not good for the members. I'm recording, President, that you've replaced water with liquor in Stortinget. It could be symbolic that it was from water to wine, but here it was spirits. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e516	I think having 50 as a requirement would make things worse with control. I would probably like the Committee to support our proposal on supervision. I also believe that when there are as many people as there are to be supervised, or at least followed up, bureaucracy will most likely eat up what we get from simplification by merging the three laws. On top of something else: the law we adopt today shifts the balance between national and local levels in the Norwegian Church – and then in the disfavor of the local church, I believe. It also weakens, in my view, the ability of the people's church to become more relevant, among other things. by not legislating the functions of the Joint Council. It would ensure better quality in all the areas where the population is now very concerned in its local people's church. Nor will the government and the minister agree that we should have the church elections at the same time as the municipal and county elections, which will certainly lead to more uprisings around the church elections. Is the minister perhaps not so concerned that the people's church should be as good as it is now, or that it should evolve?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e526	I'm happy in the people's church, and I fight for it. That's why I'm very proud of the legislation we've come up with today, which will help support the people's Church as the nation-wide and free people's church that has the ability to make decisions on its own. What this matter is just about is completing what was started, giving Church and Church Meeting more autonomy – that it is less governed from this room. I think that is positive. I think the Church itself is best placed to make decisions on its own behalf about what they think serves the Church best. That's why I'm actually a little surprised that the Center Party is going that far. One thing is what I respect and have seen, that the Central Party has had a greater desire for state church and government than the Christian People's Party and government have had, but that on the control track, too, there is a number of demands of 100 that will help 150 religious communities lose support more than they do today, is basically what I'm most surprised about. But I am occupied with a strong and good people's church, and the law underpins it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e531	Faith and life-seeking policy is an area that touches on something very important for people. It is also about framework conditions for a number of quite large businesses — and very many small ones. That's why the Storting has before come together to find out what's the best result that can last for a while. In this particular case, then, government parties decided to form a majority for an agreement with only one party, the Progress Party, without the rest of the opposition. Such a small majority behind such an important law is less predictable. Does the Council of State agree that important social issues such as this would have served with a settlement? Why did the government not choose to invite the entire opposition for an aggregate result?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e540	I believe that in important social issues it is always positive if there are several parties that stand behind, and that one has a broad deal. But I also want to say that if you compare with, for example, the State-Church settlement is of less importance than the decisions taken at that time. I also see that the main lines of the bill end up almost all parties, so I am very sure that what is being adopted today is something that can stand for a long time. I record that there is a disagreement about e.g. the number requirement, the 40 pst requirement. in directors and that kind of question, but I think with respect to notifying that we had not agreed even if we had discussed it even further than what was done. That is why I focus on the fact that the most important thing in general, the framework law of the Norwegian Church, is a broad majority at the back. When the Church meeting has the opportunity to preface the people's Church in the future, I think this is a law that is going to be good for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e547	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e554	We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that we are now adopting a new belief and life-view law that does not add up to a life-view neutral but to a life-viewed society. In dealing with this law, it has been especially important for the Christian People's Party to respect the independence of religious communities: that they have the right to rule themselves and to choose their leaders. We have made sure that the number of councils required to receive State aid is no higher than 50 members, and that children are also counted as counting members, which is a clear recognition of children's beliefs as important as adults' beliefs. We know that if the Workers' Party had been given a majority for its 500-member number of demands in order to receive State aid, a total of three-quarters, i.e. over 600 religious communities, would have lost State aid or been coerced into unnatural associations. It's serious. Only within Christian religious communities do we have a whole range of congregations. That diversity is valuable because it gives different people the opportunity to find their unity — where they have their identity, where they have their spiritual home. I also record – and it is worth noting for voters – that with its proposal for a number of 100 members, the Central Party is now embarking on the same authoritarian line as the Workers' Party, forcing religious communities to merge and pursue a policy that goes beyond the small religious communities. That line doesn't put the Christian People's Party on. We defend diversity, freedom of belief and freedom of life and the right of people to find a religion that suits them. In the setting available, we see that the comments of the opposition, and in particular the comments and suggestions of the Workers' Party, are permeated by an intention to override. Yes, it is clear that the Workers' Party almost claws at the fingertips of controlling the religious and life-view societies through binding social contracts, numbering requirements and gender representation requirements. It is time for the Workers' Party to take on board the profoundness of the belief and life-view societies as voluntary organisations — with their autonomy and their peculiarity. They are an objective in itself, not a means of achieving the political objectives of the Workers' Party. Control and contract are the opposite of trust and dialogue. The dialogue and trust we have between state and religious communities today is very good, and it's a value we're going to depend on. The Christian People's Party has confidence in the religious and life-view societies. That is why we want to pursue an active and supportive policy of faith and life. I am really glad that it is the Christian People's Party and not the Workers' Party that is with the hand on the steering wheel of our country's religious and life-seeing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e569	Faith and life-view societies play an important role in the lives of many individuals. Freedom of religion is a fundamental element of the policy of the Progress Party, because we are, in fact, a Liberal People's Party. The liberal values on which Norway and the West are based largely stem from the Christian cultural heritage, an heritage that the Progress Party is proud of and will fend for. However, faith support should not be sacred. The Progress Party has programmed that we want to liquidate the State aid to the religious and life-view society. The Progress Party wants the religious communities to be financed by their own members, thereby exempting religious movements from dependence on politicians. Our primary policy involves cutting the current grant scheme for religious communities, but we want a funding solution to support the maintenance of e.g. church buildings of historical cultural value. Faith is a private matter and should not be financed by people's tax money. For this reason, the Progress Party is promoting its own proposal to wind up the grant of faith in its entirety today. We therefore believe that faith is a private matter and that people should finance their own faith. The party of progress has come to an agreement with the government several places in this law, but what was involved in the liquidation of the faith support, we did not reach an agreement, as we know. The Progress Party is on its own on this proposal, and unfortunately there is probably no majority for this in the Chamber today either. I think that if you had been dependent on private funding, it could create commitment among the religious and life-view societies out there. Collection actions, tasks, etc. gives a greater sense of cohesion and belonging than if the funds were automatically provided by the State. People themselves should finance their own beliefs and beliefs. This avoids the discussion of which religious agendas are worthy of state support. It is simply a debate that we should really stick to too well. As long as the Constitution requires equality for different religious and life views and there is a broad majority in this room who want to continue giving the Norwegian Church money over the state budget, we do not have very many options. The only constitutional solution is to cut off all support for religious and life-sense societies, and that is also the preferred solution of the Advance Party. Our Christian cultural heritage promotes important values that contribute to giving the nation identity. Faith is a private matter, while our cultural heritage is common. For this reason, the Progress Party is promoting its own proposal to wind up the grant of faith in its entirety today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e584	Norway shall be a transparent society with freedom of belief and freedom of religion as a fundamental human right. It also means fighting for those who believe completely different from us. In 2012, the Stortinget adopted historical changes to the Constitution, in which all religious and life-view societies were to be supported in the same line. The decision today is the last step in the distinction between state and church seen with my eyes. At the same time, the law recognises that the Norwegian Church should continue to play an important role, and that the Church should continue to be responsible for important traditions and identity. There are today more than 850 religious and life views around our communities. These represent quantities of voluntary work on activities for children and young people, prevention of radicalisation, promotion of integration and very much more, across religious affiliation. That they are a major part of our voluntary sector is something we should recognise. That's why I'm concerned when the Workers' Party announces a rematch to raise the limit from 50 to 500 members. Figures from 2018 show, as we have already heard today, that 649 religious and life views would have lost support with this requirement. It will lead to less dialogue and openness and, in the worst case, more closed religious communities. When we talk in the Right about free religious practice, we just emphasize the word 'free'. So we don't do that as parts of the opposition, which will regulate e.g. the representation of women in decision-making bodies. It's a paradox when the same parties don't see the difference that Right won't regulate how governments in religious and life-view societies with adult people should be put together on the one hand, while, on the other hand, we are concerned with tightening up post-school offers to prevent possible segregation, negative social control and radicalisation of children and young people. We will safeguard the rights of children to protect them from their freedom of thought, freedom of conscience and freedom of religion. In this context, that protection of freedom should not be equated with the representation of women in governments. I am pleased that today we are asking the government to come back with proposals for necessary legislative changes, with a view to prohibit fixed after-school offers with overnight stays for a long time to ensure that children and young people with weak links to Norwegian society are well included in our common arenas. Where some will use the religious and life-view societies for control, our freedom of faith is about ensuring all the possibility of believing without outside pressure. Where individual parties want the religious communities to sign a social contract in order to receive grants, we believe that religious communities should be allowed to pursue their religious activities freely and without political interference in their internal relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e599	I'm going to spend some time talking a little bit about the flakes that this proposition on the religion law starts with. It's interesting to see which statements are made without really having any debate about the claims. This is wishful thinking; one does not problem. For example, it already says on page 10 of the proposition.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Religion and faith have undoubtedly also a great, societal force. First of all because they create community, and act as a ‘society glue’.’ All right. There may be a ‘society glue’ in the Norwegian Church, but is that so in the case of mosques and Islam? Why is it not taken up and discussed in an honest way? Is it the experience we have in Islam, worldwide, that a «society glue» is created? Of course not, and everyone who sits here knows it, but it's politically incorrect to say it. On the same side of the proposition, it says: ‘First, the communities of faith and life build together as cultural and value bearers.’ Well, what are the values that you're talking about? Furthermore, it says that there is ‘an arena to discuss issues of faith, doubt and ethics’. Is that the case with Islam? Is that what you hear from the imams? Are you talking about how to discuss different aspects of faith? That's not the experience we have, and everyone knows that. A third quote is: «creates affiliation. [[...]] Religious and life-view societies are ‘maintenances’ of such common values.’ What are these values? Are there values such as equality, marriage/marriage, family, children's rights, democracy and social control? Is this what we have experience of from Islam? Do we dare say it out loud? Hardly, but that's actually the truth. It should also be in the introduction here. This is the experience, not only in Norway, but also globally. We have another example, still from page 10. ‘An example of this is human rights. Human rights can be justified on the basis of different religious or life-seen traditions, but nevertheless serve as fundamental principles of global and local interaction.’.» Again: there is no evidence of this. We can look out the window and see that this is not true. Nevertheless, this is already on page 10. So the whole debate is about those points that are obviously not correct – or the bottles – that are agreed upon. On page 10, there's also my fifth example: «Secondly, the faith and life-view societies build natural communities and welfare communities from below.» Is it the experience with Islam that it comes from below and up? Or does it come from above and down? Is it so that you tell imams and other scholars in mosques how to understand faith and to discuss faith and doubt? Hardly, it's not our experience with Islam. I have a number of other points, but I see that time is running out. I think it is unworthy for the Storting that we cannot discuss what is the disagreement and the challenges, and that we all agree on something that is not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e646	Why should we fund religious societies if these are loosed from ties to secular rule and care? I mean the answer to this is obvious: Faith is part of our identity. It is difficult to imagine a society where everything is rationally explained, and there is nothing left to wonder about, the unexplained and search for answers for which it is difficult to find a basis in science, investigations – or, for that matter, in big messages. Also in the transmitted sense, faith builds a heaven over our lives, in the same way as music, visual art, and literature. Faith is reflection. In our cultural sphere, it's the expression of a humanistic tradition and closeness. Building up under this is a good response – to use today’s jargon. We shouldn't be afraid of the place of faith in our society, as long as it doesn't mix with secular power. On the contrary, we should be encouraged to actively participate in the democratic process linked to all life-view and belief communities. When almost four million Nordics belong to the Norwegian Church, it means among other things. I am pleased that the Church meeting with an overwhelming majority – a majority decision in 2018 – supports this. We should also encourage that more people use the chance to seek influence in the religious community to which they belong. I mentioned the identity in my previous post as well. Asking Muslim girls why they go with hijab in Norway is usually the answer that they want to put on an identity mark for their faith. Often these girls come from modern, relatively secularised environments, with high emphasis on the need for education and self-selected jobs. So you don't have to be too coercive, paternalism and a "children, kitchen" ideology to wear this headgear – some misrepresent it as fundamentalist religious practice. We should also be generous in our state support for religious communities other than those that have traditionally shaped Norwegian society over a thousand years. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to refer again to the representative, Mr Grande, during a debate in 2012. She said, ‘I believe it is important, in order to maintain the breadth of different religious and life-view societies, that the State supports the type of activity that we are doing today. The reason why I think it is important is that we see that in those countries where religious and life-viewing societies are not funded in a harsh way by the state, the power of money will gain more and more power. For me, the nightmare is a church run by oil money from Texas, and a Muslim world supported by oil money from other oil producing countries – which would give money far too much power in religious communities.» I'm going to end up with this all the time. And that's why I'm glad that the Progress Party's proposal to cut off all support for religious communities is going to suffer defeat here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e664	I respect the fact that the representatives of the Progress Party in dealing with this law need to express their primary policy. However, I need to address their claim that faith is a private matter and that we should therefore remove State aid to the religious and life-seeing societies. Of course, the fact that some people experience their faith as something very personal should be respected. But if, as a society, we begin to view faith and view life as something exclusively private, we lose something of value, and unfortunately, I think that the statements of the Progress Party here show a very narrow understanding of what the belief and life views mean for society. That whole 85 pst. of all those in Norway belong to a religious community, telling us that faith and belonging are important to people. It's something that means a lot to individuals as well as to a community-building force. Cutting State aid would affect many small religious communities throughout the country, but it would be particularly dramatic for the Norwegian Church. Many communities would lose the only active religious community if they were forced to run only profitable congregations. 70 pst. of all the northern people belong to the Norwegian Church. It doesn't necessarily mean that everyone has a very close and active relationship with their faith, but that they still appreciate what the Church offers for celebrations and special days in life, such as baptism, confirmation, weddings and funerals. I don't want an American funding model for our religious and life-view societies, where one is totally dependent on rich uncles to have a priest in the church or to have a meeting room. The model we have in Norway today, which works very well, is that we give some state aid at the bottom, which generates an enormous amount of voluntary activity. We're going to have so much left! Removing State aid could lead to the loss of a lot of voluntary work because of the loss of predictability, perhaps the loss of one employee who coordinates all the volunteers and the provision of services – or the loss of access to the premises where all the positive activity takes place. State aid is of great practical importance, especially for the Norwegian Church. It also has a symbolic value, because we show the religious and life views that they have an important place in our society. It's a system that the Christian People's Party is proud that we've been giving priority to Norway for a long time, and that we believe we're going to continue to prioritise in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e676	When we talk today about the separation of church and state, we also talk and have a debate about trust versus control. I am concerned that we now give confidence in the Norwegian Church, we give confidence in the Church Meeting. We also give trust to those who will receive support. At the same time, we have said that we need control. Equality was mentioned earlier in the debate, and I would like to stress that everyone who receives State aid should have an annual report. That annual report shall set out the actions taken by each society to promote, inter alia, the following: equality. The supervisory authority also has the possibility to impose other reporting, e.g.: reporting on how children’s rights are respected. That's how we have, if you could say it, some rice behind the mirror. You get support, but you also expect to live in harmony with the wishes of the Stortinge. Religious freedom is a cornerstone of a rule of law. There may be religions that have practices that we don't like, but we now have a clear, through these annual reports, to oversee them, because it has to be a transparency. As far as trust is concerned, we have now given the Church Meeting a trust. I'm a little surprised that you have this tremendous urge to rule. I believe that the Church meeting has both the competence and the capacity to make the necessary choices for how the Church should be governed. It's after all the Church's own that's sitting there. I am also concerned about the dialogue that concerns me that the municipalities should not have with both the Church and the different religious and life-view societies. As a municipal politician, I had many meetings with the Norwegian Church and other religious and life views. Now there are so many Central Party rapporteurs around the country, so I can't believe this could worry the Center Party at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e685	It was historic when in 2008 we not only agreed, but we became unanimous, about the reforms that are now being implemented and largely implemented, in the relationship between state and church. One of the things we agreed on was that the Church's organization would continue to fall into a church law. It's still going to do that, but the government parties are making a big deal out of not talking about how the church elections are going to be conducted. For me, there must be some of the fundamentals of a church law how democracy in this church is maintained. It's e.g. It makes no sense to write in the law that the Church meeting should be the Church's top organ, without at the same time saying what constitutes this Church meeting – how the Church meeting should be chosen. All over 15 years of age shall have voting rights, but there is nothing left about hedges, for example. of direct elections, access to elections and the possibility of participation. The old system consisted of holding elections indirectly, first to the Council of Bishops – after worship, how largely they all, most actively participated – and then elected their members to the Council of Bishops for the Church Meeting. Democracy was very central to the church settlement, and it is therefore inexplicable that the partners from that time on continue to participate in securing the democratic framework around the Church. So to this with the number of members and demands for the religious communities to get support. Firstly, it is absolutely incredible, I think, that the representative of the Christian People's Party refers to the view of those of us who believe that the border could have been slightly higher than 50, as an authoritarian line – I think that's what the representative Gleditsch Lossius called the vision of the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The view of the Progress Party, on the other hand, that the limit should be set at 3.4 million, is referred to as respect for the main position of the Progress Party. So there's a difference in how you treat the positions of different parties. Tybring-Gjedde's posts are passed in silence by the case rapporteur – well, you choose your partners carefully. There is freedom of religion in Norway, but there is no right to state subsidies – there is a right to state subsidies on equal terms, as stated in the Constitution. If the conditions are any broken principles of what this support is going to do, it will be fully consistent with a level playing field in support, and will not go beyond the freedom of belief of the individual religious community at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e696	I need to say that as a working party member, I find it quite strange to stand here and listen to the lack of humility that I experience being presented from this pulpit to the Workers' Party in the cause of faith and life. The council asks a little rhetorical -- I don't know if it's ironic or an attempt to be funny -- whether there's nothing going on in religious and life-seeing organizations. Then, at least, the minister cannot have heard much of what I have been talking about in terms of belief and life's vision. The point is that the Workers' Party has always listened to oppressed people. We listen to oppressed people also in religious and life-viewing societies, and it is those who promote the issues raised by the Workers' Party in its proposals: on strengthening equality on ensuring that homofiles are not discriminated against ensuring that elections take place democratically This is not something the Workers' Party sits on a payroll chamber and wants out. Living, believing people turn to the Workers' Party because they believe and will belong to what is so important to them, namely, a religious and life-viewing society. However, the practices of the religious and life-view society put a barrier to their exercising their fundamental faith in the congregation they belong to. That's what we're discussing today, and that's what this government has put an end to in the paragraph on refusing grants, and that's where we're completely in line. That's what's control, not whether we want a social contract or not. It's a derailment of the debate and a way to discuss what I find – I have to say it from this pulpit – a little uncomfortable from the stand of the Christian People's Party. The fact that the Christian People's Party deviates from the long tradition of finding broad settlements in these matters, I believe, says more about the Christian People's Party and direction choices than it says about the Labour Party's need for control. I find it regrettable that the Christian People's Party has brought with it the Right, Left and Advance Party on that kind of control and that kind of policy, but that's the way it is. When I read that the Christian People's Party Minister is concerned that the Workers' Party will take a rematch, when they haven't lifted a finger to get a majority, I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e719	I also feel like following up the representatives of the Workers' Party, who reacted to how the Christian People's Party spoke about the party. I agree that it was actually a little surprising that you could go so far in a description. That we're referred to as totalitarian because we want 50 more in a number claim, I can live well with that, but it would be great if we had a deal. Then I might also think that the tone would have been different. This is such an important theme that I think it's a little sad that you go to the extremes to point out the differences. The representative Giske said that we should ignore Tybring-Gjedde's posts in silence, but I need to say that it's funny, eye-catching, to see what kind of loose at least that representative, and often the Progress Party, has when it comes to Islam versus all the other beliefs and lifestyles that we actually make a law for today – well over 800 – when we talk about what all these societies mean as glue in their community, in their volunteer work. I didn't like that much. What I liked was the representative Kristin Ørmen Johnsen's great belief that all the municipalities will probably have the Central Party rapporteurs for more than the next three and a half years. I share that, and by that I think maybe the dialogue between the Church and the municipalities can be good. But from experience, I also know that once we have a churchkeeper and we have the arrangement we now have with the councils, the dialogue is automatic. It's very bad that it wasn't legalized.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e728	I don't need to extend the debate, but I need to replicate to the representative Henriksen: it may be that I didn't have a sense of humor when I said what I said, but I've been following the debate for a long time, and my experience has been that the representative Henriksen has had more focus on all the challenges and all the negativeness of religious communities than the positive. I would therefore like to make it clear from this speaker that I know that the representative Henriksen has a great commitment to the Norwegian Church and to different religious communities. It has not been my desire to label anyone, except to say that I think that one in the debate has well so much focus on all that negative, and then one forgets the positive. Then I would also like to say that it must be allowed to have a political debate and disagreement relating to these issues. For example, too many religious communities are the number of requirements is absolutely essential. It is not that the Christian People's Party pressed the Right and Left, and to the extent that the Advance Party, to present this proposition. On the contrary, this has been a long job where former government councils, who have had both right- and left-wing membership, have worked on the questions. There has been work following up the Steel Kit Committee in a good way, following up the hearing bodies, which had many recordings, and which it has been working on for a long time. My clear experience is that this has been an important matter for the Christian People's Party, but it has also been an important matter for all the government parties. What's also interesting is that once we've chosen the solutions we've done, it's a lot based on the recordings that came out of the hearing. So this is a historically important decision that is made, which has broad support in the various religious and life-vision organisations in this country, and I am sure that, as the representative Henriksen says, it takes care of the control and grant aspect. There we are very much in agreement about that paragraph, which is much clearer now than it was previously linked to when one cannot receive state subsidies, or when it can be withdrawn. It also takes care of the other aspect, by getting a greater autonomy not least in the Norwegian Church, but also ensuring that religious communities have freedom of learning, which is important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e743	I take the floor again, a little bit because it is interesting to hear a representative who is so arrogant that he rises above the arguments of another representative. Then the debate has been lost immediately. I would like to invite Trond Giske to take a debate on this – perhaps not right now, but another time, if Giske is interested in it. If he could be so kind as to come down on my level and discuss it seriously, it would have been interesting. So a comment to the representative from the Left who talked about that hijab was so popular, that it was such a pleasant garment that it was so nice, and that it was apparently the most secular Muslims who wore it. Has the representative been involved in what it symbolizes? It is a sexualized garment that shall cover the hair of the man, so that he shall not be tempted, and it is in harmony with Muhammad's words. That's something you should reflect on. It's not about being secularized by going with hijab. It's already a symbol that you accept that the woman should have respect for the man, and that the hair should appear only within the home's four walls. It's something quite different than that it's secular, popular and in, etc., which it's so important to say today. The representative of the Christian People's Party said there were 800 religious communities, so why is there so much talk about Islam? Well, first of all, Islam is a fairly fast growing religion, and it is, after all, all Islam we have challenges with all over the world, whether it be wars or uprisings, whether it be between Shia and Sunni Islam or different groups of Islam. That's pretty much where it is. Can we agree on that in this room, or do you think you can find any other conflict that is worse than that? I hope we can agree on that. We read about that every day in the newspapers, that there are conflicts in different branches of Islam. That's why you're in Libya, Syria and Iraq. And I can mention about every country in Africa, except some Christians where there's no such thing as trouble. I can personally agree with some of the demands of the Workers' Party and the SV in this law, on the consequences for religious communities, for example. on equality – that it should not be like in mosques, where women have to enter a separate entrance and sit at the back of the hall, and sometimes also behind a curtain. Why isn't that discussed? If SV and the Workers' Party are willing to take away those who practice their own entrances for women, the support, they can start right away, because there is only one example of how Islam discriminates, how they do not stand up for women's rights. This also applies to representatives of the Progress Party. At least that's what I stand for: equality also in mosques and in Muslim environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e754	I also wanted to respond to some of the things that have been said about the Progress Party in this debate. The view of the Progress Party on the abolition of public funding for religious communities was among other things: described as having a narrow view of the role of religious communities. I strongly disagree with that. The religious communities are an important part of people's lives, and religious communities are also an important part of the glue in society. In Norway, we probably have a tradition that the state is everyone's mother, but not everything that is important, needs state funding, and religion is probably one of the things that are so personal and private and are of such a nature that it should be minimal State interference. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that the State should not finance the operation of the around 900 religious communities that we have in Norway. The representative, Mr Sem-Jacobsen, also welcomed the fact that the Progress Party has promoted Islam in this debate. Well, several of the things that we are adopting today are just about challenges that may be primarily related to Islam. When we say no to or say that we do not like the funding of religious communities from countries that do not respect religious freedom themselves, it often has a connection with countries that do not respect minorities themselves, such as fronts wahhabism and others, more extreme, interpretations of religion, want to exert influence on other countries, including our country. It's largely about Islam, and that's why it's important to talk about it. We adopt several things in terms of educational provision that also include Qur'an schools, Qur'an School SFOs and sending children to Qur'an Schools abroad. It is primarily about the challenges of those who want to spread more extreme forms of Islam. Over 400 Norwegian children and young people have been sent abroad in the last two years, and many of them have ended up in Koran schools. It is important that we dare to talk about the problems that exist, and not celebrate this under the carpet. We must have respect for all religions. There should be equal treatment of religions in Norway, religions are important, but if we do not dare to talk about the problems, the challenges – and unfortunately there are some challenges for those who support a more extreme form of Islam – if we do not dare to address those problems, then we have a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e765	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e770	I'm just going to end by explaining a little bit why we think a social contract is important. Then I can only state from this pulpit after this debate that everyone now agrees that the state should make stricter demands on the religious and life-view society. It's in Section 6. There's zero discussion about it, and everyone agrees. What we're discussing, and the reason why we want a dialogue, is that there's an interpretation of where the limit of law goes up against freedom of belief. We believe that this is a good thing to talk about in advance with the religious and life-view societies, also because the bill, which everyone agrees on, says about the consequences when religious and life-view societies "break" what is listed, "or in other ways seriously violates the rights and freedoms of others". We have explained them in some areas, such as the parties of government and the party of progress. I'm sorry, but that's life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e777	Let me first clear up a completely obvious misunderstanding. I have not encouraged anyone not to discuss with Tybring-Gjedde. I just found that the Christian People's Party was not concerned with discussing with Tybring-Gjedde, but, on the other hand, was more concerned with calling the Senter party's limit, at 100 instead of 50, for an authoritarian line. One should wonder what the representative Gleditsch Lossius would then say about the Higher Council of Greece's proposal for a limit of 500, which was sent out to the hearing. It is a unanimous committee which, in its position, says that: ‘a belief or life-view society, or individuals acting on behalf of society, who commit violence or coercion, present threats, infringe children’s rights, violate legal prohibitions of discrimination or otherwise seriously infringe the rights and freedoms of others, may be refused’. So, as the representative Henriksen says, there's a consensus in this room that there's a limit before you can actually get rid of the subsidy. What we are proposing is that, in dialogue with the religious and life-seeing communities, a good contract should be found that sets the framework for this. Creed and life-viewing societies cannot resign from the society of which they are part. They are subject to the Accounting Act, they are subject to the Road Traffic Act, they are subject to the Criminal Code. They are subject to a number of rules, norms and laws in Norwegian society. The question is where the limit goes, where freedom of faith provides an additional framework around this freedom. There's a debate the rest of the hall seems to be somewhat willing to go into. The progress party goes so far as to say that there is no support for the religious and life-view societies. That's interesting, because it could pretty quickly lead to that excluding those who don't have the economy to participate. But what's extra interesting is that the argument of the Progress Party for this solution is that it gives freedom to the religious and life-view societies, and that this is an organization that one goes into according to one's own conviction. The exact same reasoning can be expressed on political parties. Why in the world does not the Progress Party propose that we should deprive all political parties of state support? There we go in with a conviction, it's voluntary, and it's a freedom to take up your own positions. Or what about non-profit institutions, where you go in with conviction, and where you're going to have the freedom to act yourself? What about sports teams or anything? This reasoning is simply not relevant. In the end, about the suspension of the Party of Advancement in Islam: Yes, there are extreme Muslim religious environments, but there are Christian sects who refuse to vote for the members, there are Christian religious communities who refuse equality, and there are Christian sects who refuse to accept divorce, etc. That fanaticism and extremism I think we find in more religious societies than in Islam.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e794	Several opposition parties are very concerned about setting a 40 p.m. requirement for gender representation in counseling and governing the religious and life-view societies, and despite the fact that the gender equality authority itself, on visits to the Committee, has said that there will be a very little appropriate action to take. This type of change must grow from the inside and naturally over time for them to be worth something, she thought. This is like the Christian People's Party, because we also believe that this is about dialogue, awareness and guidance. Now that we're going to the end of the debate, I would like to thank the Committee for good work and healthy engagement. Although I think it is important to distinguish between the words «authoritarian» and «totalitarian», there is a great deal of good to say about the role of the religious and life-view societies in this debate and which underlines their importance to individuals and to us as society. As rapporteur of the case, I believe that the understanding of religion and freedom of belief as a fundamental human right must underpin the whole of religious and life-view policy. I hear that we're all engaged in dialogue between religious and life-sight societies and states, but in this context we probably have a rather different view of what dialogue is, and what requires the good dialogue. It is also clear from the ideological point of view that there are differences in the extent to which the State is in a position to make demands on the religious communities and the extent to which they can be reported. Because we have to remember that belief and life-view societies are deeply voluntary organisations, and that they must thus be allowed to govern themselves. I also record in the debate that the opposition in the case of the Norwegian Church wants to retain the state's authority in several areas. Here we disagree in principle. As a natural consequence of the separation of state and church, it involves a reduction and simplification of the legal provisions on the Norwegian Church, and they are now given a brief framework law in line with the Church Meeting's own wish. Now the Church itself is empowered to lay down detailed rules on church organisation and division, church bodies and church elections. The Christian People's Party is absolutely certain that the Church itself, and not the Stortinget, is the best one to take care of the Church's own affairs, and I would like to congratulate the Norwegian Church on the exciting work ahead of it. Once again, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I am very pleased that we have now come so far that the Storting can adopt a new, common law of religious and life-viewing societies as a clear anchoring of the open-minded society. It's a very important value to create an inclusive society for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e807	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e824	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e831	As the rapporteurs, we would like to thank the Committee for its work on a matter as a matter of course, but in this matter I would really like to thank the Committee for its very good and constructive cooperation in an important matter, namely the consideration of the communication on the Information Society Fund – a good communication with a historical look back on the Fund and its development since its establishment in 1821. The OVF has been in dispute since then, and we in the Committee are pleased that we are finally clarifying ownership rights and the way forward. In the Communication, the Ministry presents two alternatives as current: either that the values of the fund are transferred to the Norwegian Church as a whole, or that the values are shared between the State and the Church. The Ministry concludes that the values of the fund should be shared by transferring the properties of particular church value to the Norwegian Church, while the State becomes the owner of the remaining Information Service fund. The Committee supports, as most consultancies do, such a breakdown of the Fund. Furthermore, it has been important for the Committee that the Storting provides some guidance for the process of subdivision in order to ensure predictability, and has therefore come up with five concrete proposals on the process of division, which take into account both the intentions of the Storting and the wishes of the Norwegian Church. I do not read these proposals word law, but they are about the State and the Church being equivalent parties to the division process, where the Church's values are to be separated first, that the conditions for the division of the Fund are that the State increases its efforts to preserve cultural-historical church buildings equivalent to the value of what is left in the fund, and that the state's increased efforts towards church buildings should not relieve the municipalities of their financial responsibilities for church buildings or other measures or arrangements in the field, and that different conservation programmes should be launched for different categories of church buildings, in consultation with both church bodies and antique-varian authorities. In addition to the proposals on the distribution process, the Committee today jointly supports a proposal that the government be asked to draw up a plan for the improvement of church buildings of protection. I am very pleased that the committee with this underlines how busy we at Stortinget are to take on the great delays in church maintenance, even though I wish that all of us would also join in on a funding proposal. Today, the Committee also joins in a joint approach to another proposal of great importance to me, both as a case rapporteur and as a centre party, namely that the Stortinget must have a thorough case on how to manage what is left of the fund after the Church has been given its share. The message does not deal with that question. For the rapporteur and the rest of the committee, this issue is very important, and we believe that it is absolutely necessary to anchor the process in Stortinget: among others. the purpose of the fund, the social responsibility of the fund, its assets, the availability of the properties for voluntary teams and associations, the sale of properties and any right of pre-emption, such as: for municipalities, not to talk about national security and the consequences of any sale to the rest of the world. I look forward to the work on the important matter. With that, I'm going to deal with the suggestions that the Center Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e846	The representative of Aslaug Sem-Jacobsen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e851	The abolition of the state church system in the Constitution in 2012 and the changes in the law in the relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church in 2016 make it natural to obtain a final clarification of the ownership rights of the Information Society Fund. The fund, which is assumed to have a value of between 10 and 12 billion. kr, has a special protection under the Basic Law § 116, and the ownership rights have been subject to significant, including legal, disagreement. I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for helping the Storting to take the lead in the important work on clarifications. This ensures that the Storting will also be involved in the further work. The size will today decide that the government will make a plan for the restoration of protective church buildings. This topic has also been given considerable attention in the past in Stortinget, and I want to express considerable impatience on behalf of the Workers' Party. The Church’s employers’ organisation, KA, has carried out a state survey in 2017–2018 on the state of the various categories of church buildings. The Norwegian Institute of Cultural Memory Research also contributes to professional and important knowledge. There is little doubt that we have enough knowledge of our most vulnerable and valuable churches, that it is now urgent with a plan, and that we should see a greater degree of concreteity from the government already now. The Workers' Party will have strong and committed cooperation with the municipalities to ensure that land use in the municipalities is carried out for the benefit of development and the environment and not for one-sided financial interests. This is in line with the calls made by the local association, KS. We also want clarifications about the ownership of the Information Service Fund to be used to ensure that the approximately 6,400 party contracts can now be offered. We are promoting proposals in line with that. I address the proposal Workerpartiet has with SV. I would also like to say that the Labour Party should support the proposals. 3 and 4, from the Centre Party and SV respectively, and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e864	The representative of Kari Henriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e869	When the Constitutional provisions such as the Regulated Church System were repealed in 2012, reforms were opened up to the relationship between the State and the Church. And when the state was separated from the Church in 2017, it became quite natural to assess the ownership of the 200-year-old Enlightenment Fund – a little mysterious, really. Since its origin, there have been disputes about the fund. It has a financial capital of $2.6 billion. kr. Many have been interested in using the funds, including: the municipalities, for the best, simply to set up many churches. The fund owns agricultural properties, stabbure, se Trees, Forests, Power Plants and Presbyteries, so there is a significant share of properties in the fund. Enquiries have been made to the right by municipalities and private traders who have sought dialogue with the Information Society's fund for the purchase of properties, because they bind to land, which hinders the development of municipalities and industrial activities. This has proved difficult, but we think it will now solve. A unanimous committee welcomes clarifications about ownership, and we are very positive about the model that is proposed: a division where properties of particular church value go to the churches, while the state becomes the owner of other assets. This broad integration of the model is important, for the solution requires political follow-up for years to come. The Ministry has given clear signals that they will commit themselves to refurbishment of protective church buildings. This is something the Committee has been particularly concerned about. We want a reinforced effort and strategy for the conservation of the stone churches. The unanimous proposal for a decision of the Committee in the matter guarantees that this will be done. The size has given some leadership in the further work: State and Church to be equivalent parties to the process the church's values are separated first State increasing efforts to rehabilitate cultural-historical churches this shall not be at the expense of the efforts of the municipalities; The Storting also asks the Ministry to come back to a case about the fund assets taken over by the State. Then we'll have to lubricate ourselves with a little bit of patience in impatience. We may also be pleased that the fund has helped build Norway as a knowledge nation, because the fund was an important source of funding for the development of general school, and we have benefited from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e901	I am glad that there is a greater consensus in this matter than it was in the previous one. I would also like to congratulate the Council of State on the matter. It is a unanimous committee that is behind it. The uncertainties surrounding the ownership issue related to the Information Society Fund have existed for a long time. Nevertheless, the Foundation's clear indications that the values of the Fund should benefit church purposes have led to the Foundation's administration having a very good and important predictability. It is good that this clarification finally comes. It's good that there's a total mass that's behind it. There is also a solution that obliges the State to step up its efforts to maintain church buildings in the future, which is important. In addition, I feel that a reasonable sharing of the values of the fund has been found, which is also agreed by the Church, where the buildings used almost daily by the Church receive a more direct management from the Church, while what is of more commercial wealth is retained in the fund and in the state. So this is an important clarification that it's good that the Stortinget is united about, and that we in the Progress Party would like to welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e912	I am very pleased that we have found a agreed solution to the Information Service's fund. The list of proposals put forward by all the parties in the Committee provides predictability for the Church and a new basis for a good conservation programme for cultural historical important cultural buildings. Not least, and this is particularly important for SV, it gives a clear order in the proposal for a Decision, II, to obtain a separate case on the fund assets taken over by the State after the information service fund has been split up. That order states that the matter must discuss issues relating to the purpose, social responsibility, organisation, conditions for the sale of properties, security issues and other matters relevant to the management of the remaining fund taken over by the State. Here, SV’s expectations for this matter are clear – such as the sale of party contracts, the need to take wider societal considerations than that resulting from a performance need alone. Because it's clear that this is about large properties that are very important to many communities around. There we have to take responsibility for the ability of communities to develop without the fund becoming a barrier to it. So finally, a question like SV is surprising alone about problematizing in this setting: in this case, we propose to serve the Norwegian Church a number of properties that can also be real internal files in a community, which is connected to the Church itself. And that's totally okay -- that's a good breakdown. But we don't demand what happens after that. It can quickly be thought that the Church gets very lucrative properties in the center of cities and settlements that the Church will gradually see the value of, disappear and perhaps sell. There's no suspicion of the Church that's behind it, that's how evolution can go. So here, there are important properties in many communities that can come on private hands without society getting anything left for it. It's a problem that the majority of the committee should be dealing with. That is why we have also proposed that the government should exercise a right of repatriation for these properties. I now take up this proposal, which SV is on its own. Otherwise, we are happy for the unity we have come to. It is an important clarification of the Information Service's fund. It was high time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e923	Then the representative Freddy André Oberstegård mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e928	This reform of the Information Society's fund is an important cleanup of ownership of values contained in the Fund. Ever since the formation of the fund by law of 1821, there has been a discussion of the ownership of this fund. Today it looks like we're going in for a good landing of this question, almost 200 years later. This will hopefully also provide the basis for the restoration and preservation of the culturally important church buildings in Norway. It appreciates the Left a lot, including me personally. In my constituency, we have 21 medieval churches that are sorely in need of refurbishment and maintenance. I would like to thank those who have been locally involved in this matter, and a special thank you goes to the former Minister of Culture, who has had a personal commitment to this. The left and myself have long been concerned about how to deal with the national tax of the Norwegian churches, without spending a lot of money on this. Already at the beginning of the 2000s, a total maintenance kit was calculated for about 10 billion. kr for the church buildings. The slowdown was increasing, and the maturity was accelerating. An increasing maintenance effort over the last 10 years has helped to prevent further increases in the overall maintenance life. However, the key figures report on the state of the Norwegian churches from 2017 show that much remains to be done. The report states: ‘The study shows a serious weakness of the outer walls of the medieval churches in stone and the 1700s churches, where the proportion with less good or bad condition for the outer walls is 37 and 35 pst respectively.’ For the Left, cultural memory protection is part of the societal mission. The churches are in a special position as cultural memories and among the foremost examples of architecture, art history and crafts from the last thousand years. Hopefully for the future we'll be able to take full care of this central part of our story. What we are now discussing is also related to the matter we have just dealt with in this Chamber, the Law of Religion. That is, it's about more than cultural memories, it's also about physical spaces being important to people today. The Church shall be open, both to the exercise of faith and to people with little connection to religious faith. Finally, with this decision, we in Norway can take care of Norway's church history by putting ourselves, our background and our identity into a wider context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e947	The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the ownership issue of the Information Society's fund is now finally resolved, that the State and the Church should distribute the values of the Fund among themselves, provided that the State commits itself to a strengthened effort to restore the country's cultural-historical valuable church buildings. The assets that have a special church value shall be separated from the fund and transferred to the Norwegian Church, and the remainder of the Information Society's fund will be owned by the State. The country's effort over time shall at least correspond to the value represented by the remaining fund for the country. Overall, the solution means that the entire fund benefits the Norwegian Church. We in the Christian People's Party are also pleased with the consensus we have in the committee, and with the common proposals we have come up with, where we ask the government to take care of important elements in the division. It is necessary to ensure that the increased efforts of the State correspond to the calculation of real value, and it is also important that the increased efforts of the State towards church buildings do not in any way relieve the municipalities of financial responsibility for church buildings. Furthermore, it is important to establish an overview in consultation with church authorities and antique-variant authorities of the preservation programmes of church buildings in a priority order, based on criteria such as age, protection value and maintenance status. We have a lot of beautiful, protective churches in our country, and unfortunately, we have a lot of maintenance here. That is why the Christian People's Party is very pleased that the issue of ownership of the Enlightenment Fund is now finally being clarified, and that it will make a stronger effort to restore and secure our protective churches. This is a work which must be carried out systematically and over time, but the unanimous proposal by the Committee for a decision on the matter gives assurance that it will be properly dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e956	The previous case was important and historic, and we must be able to say it is too. As many people have been involved, the Information Society's fund is 200 years old, and there has been a conflict of ownership since then. Because the fund originates from properties reserved for the Church and the priests, many believe that the fund belongs to the Norwegian Church. Others believe that it is the State that owns the property. It is no wonder that there has been a conflict of ownership, because when the fund was established in 1821, it included as much as 10-15 pst. of all real estate in Norway. There are few who know it today, but the Information Society's fund was at the time the greatest wealth the state had ever dealt with. The systematic expansion of the primary school system in Norway was hardly possible without contributions from the OVF. As long as the Church was part of the state and the Constitution lays down conditions for the use of the fund's resources, the issue of ownership has had little practical significance. Now the issue of ownership has changed. There has also been a desire from the church to provide a political clarification on the issue of ownership. The government has submitted its own questions to the Stortinget through the Stortingen fund. Our conclusion is clear: the values of the fund should be shared between the state and the Church. Assets with a special church value should be separated from the fund and transferred to the Norwegian Church. The remaining OVF will be owned by the State. The condition is that the State undertakes to strengthen its efforts to secure and restore the country's culturally valuable church buildings. This effort shall, over time, at least correspond to the value represented by the remaining fund for the country. Overall, the solution means that the entire fund benefits the Norwegian Church. A unanimous committee agrees with this solution. I'm glad. I have understood that also from the church team is a satisfied one. This broad integration is very important, as the solution requires political follow-up over the years to come. In particular, it is important that the increased efforts made by the State towards church buildings are monitored systematically and over time. The unanimous proposal for a decision of the Committee in the matter guarantees that this will be done. This is a crucial point in the history of the OVF. We have come to a clarification that hardly anyone saw a few years ago. But we're not at the end of the road. Now we're going to follow up the situation and the different decisions that are being taken today, and my goal is that we can come up with a bill on the fund for treatment here in Spring 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e971	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e976	I agree, it's a historic day: now the values of the Information Society's Fund are shared between the Church of Norway and the State. Then we could have used the opportunity to clean up and dispose of the system of land fasts on the foundation of the Information Society's fund, as the fund is one of the major property owners in the country and has thousands of party contracts in its portfolio. I used to call the Santa Claus Institute the last rest of the housekeeper's service, and I still mean that. We could have abolished it now, but as I read the Storing Message, it is continued. Yes, it is still this way – if I understand the message correctly – that the situation may be that both the Church and the state are being detained by property. Why does the Council of State not want to put an end to the Santa Claus system?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e985	This message is about the ownership issue related to the Information Service Fund. The important thing there has been that we say, once and for all, that the values of the fund will benefit the Norwegian Church. Then, fortunately, the committee has joined in unanimously and also decided that we should now work on the follow-up of it, and that we should then work on the values that the state is dealing with, and on how we should use the values to renovate the church buildings. The issue of Santa Claus is in the Ministry of Justice. I took part in the decisions attached to the law on the Santa Claus, together with the representative Henriksen, in the previous period, and I am aware that there is disagreement about that issue. However, it is not in connection with this case, or with the OVF, that we should have done something about the Santa Claus Act, if necessary. There must be one thing that the representative can address with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e992	That is only partly correct, because we have previously discussed in Stortinget – even constitutional proposals – after a Supreme Court ruling in 2010 on the previous instructions adopted under the Stoltenberg Government, on the redemption of fastening contracts on the basis of the Information Society Fund. The information service's fund has its own protection, it is even called, in the Constitution – I'm a little unsure whether it is a good concept – which meant that the government's decision could not be implemented. So this has absolutely something to do with the Information Service's fund, and it's a very big accumulator of properties – both residential properties, leisure properties and commercial properties. I must stress that it is primarily the residential property I am occupied with. That people who have had a property, steal it and spent money on it for maybe 40–50 years, don't own that land, don't belong anywhere. Why won't the Council of State take care of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e999	If this is not the case with the entire Santa Claus Institute, I agree that it is relevant, and I know that the one proposal is about the festivities that are under the Information Society's fund. But as I said, it's a question we're going to get back to, and also how these values and properties are distributed between the state and the church, and what happens to the assets that fall on the government's hand. But I do not agree with the premise, because as the owner of the dwelling, you have the opportunity to redeem a party contract, except that there is probably an exception for agricultural property – now I am looking at the Senterpartiet because they did not agree with the proposal here in the cancellation. So it's at least as a starting point, but I don't know the law of Santa Claus in and out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1004	Neither can I in and out, but my party is very concerned about this issue. It was also one of the reasons why it was so important to me – and I also experience the Committee – to get a case back on what to do with all things, how to manage the fund later. I am also very concerned about what we do about municipalities, or local teams and associations. On the issue of ownership, further management: When do you think we can get that work, and how busy will the Minister be of both the municipalities and voluntary teams and the associations' ability to make better use of those properties — and also in a security policy perspective? We know that some countries like to buy up areas that might be interesting to them, among other things. along the Norwegian coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1009	The President recalls that the speech should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1014	Thanks for the important questions. As I said, when it comes to real estate distribution, it could take some time. There will be a process here – the Committee also stresses clearly that it will be between the Church and the State to find and identify the important assets that the Church is to handle. Then a continuous future will work with a distribution of that. I imagine it could take years. As far as the law itself is concerned, my goal, as I said, is to get to the Stortinget and follow up on what the committee says, next spring. We're going to hope that the schedule stays in place. So it will always have to be an investigation related to how to manage these values in the best possible way, how to fund church buildings. That's why we're also very concerned about the points that the representative points to, and also which churches you should give priority to. I imagine that when there is so much lag and so much resources to be used for maintenance, it will take quite a while to get something done about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1023	As the notice alerts and the Council of State mentions, there shall be a legislative proposal on this matter in due course. That's why I want to ask a question to the Council of State about exactly what SV has been dealing with alone, that in this division a large number is given – we will believe – properties, and that's right and fair, but many of those properties will still have a social interest in the community. Will the Council of State in the legislative proposition that comes also discuss the possibilities of society to ensure, for example: Repatriation to the properties if they were to be abandoned, sold or otherwise left on private hands, outside the control of society?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1029	It may be that the question is going to be discussed in that bill, but the starting point for the representative is maybe that one gets the impression that the Church is going to be transferred a lot of properties that you can only sell later. However, it violates the Committee's terms of reference, namely that there should be important construction or important property for the Norwegian Church – ‘special value’ is well the wording used. Thus, a person shall not gain any financial gain to use for other purposes. At the same time, in a thoughtful case, I imagine that a pastor's home that is being taken over today, potentially not necessarily so well suited in a few years. That the Church must have flexibility to sell it and buy a new property, I think it has something to do with it. That is why I think that one should not jump on that proposal, and I am glad that the committee does not jump on it. Then we'd better look at it when the law comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1036	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1043	In 2012, I promoted a constitution proposal together with the then deposit representatives Gerd Janne Kristoffersen and Steinar Gullvåg on the amendment of the Basic Law § 106. The proposal concerned the management of spiritual goods, i.e. the Information Society's fund. The Constitutional Draft was discussed in Stortinget in 2016. When the proposal was put forward, it was covered by Section 106 of the Constitution. It had become Section 116 in the meantime, after a decision in 2014, and that is what I am referring to today. The draft Constitution was not really about the Information Society's fund, but the political backbone of the proposal was about Santa Claus. That people don't own the plot of their house doesn't belong anywhere. A land that you have built up, maintained, developed and spent money on for maybe 40 and 50 years, so you do not have the right to own it. The Santa Claus Institute had never been adopted in the world today. That's why the government wanted Stoltenberg, with Minister of Justice Storberget at the head, to clear up questions that had to do with Santa Claus. This is where the Information Society's fund comes into the picture, as one of the country's largest landowners, and as accumulating thousands of properties. Over the years, I have been in contact with many desperate Santas, and the Information Society's fund has no noble story in terms of how they have treated many Santas. Then I would also like to add that I have the impression that the contact between the Information Society's fund and the parties has improved in recent years, and in addition, many have redeemed their plots in recent years, but many remain and are part of the Santa Claus scheme at the Information Society's fund. The government of Stoltenberg therefore adopted an instruction on the redemption and regulation of a fast fee in fixed conditions in state-run and state-run businesses, including the Information Society's fund. Then there was a great debate, and finally the majority of the Supreme Court decided that it could not be implemented, and that it was unconstitutional. The Supreme Court decision came in 2010, and therefore we promoted the Constitutional Law proposal in 2012, which unfortunately did not receive a majority in 2016, to amend the Basic Law provisions on the Fund of the Information Society. Now let's go one step further. Now the values of the Information Society's fund are shared, and then we could also have used the opportunity to abolish the system of mortgages on the property of the Information Society's fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1060	I know that I look forward to the representative Myrlis' commitment also when we will talk more about this when we get back a case about how to manage the Information Society's fund later. I also look forward to the commitment that I experience that the Committee has for Church Maintenance, which is a heartchild for the Center Party and also for many others. It was important for me as a centrist to get assurances that this would actually go to church maintenance when we were a little surprised, I would say, was presented for the notice of the Information Society's fund and the proposal to share. I think that if not that condition there, this would have been a much harder case. Having said that, after thanking the Committee both for the debate and for its commitment to the matter, I would like to thank the Minister, who in this matter showed a very great desire for cooperation, let go of the prestige and did not think it was problematic that an opposition politician like me, as rapporteur, or the committee, pointed out that it could be defective in the notification that it did not mention what would happen to the fund afterwards. The dialogue we have had, between committee, government and opposition, and with me in a relatively coordinating role, I seem to have been very uplifting. And seen in the light of how the Storting has been working together lately during the Corona crisis, it's nice to have some things where we know that we're lifting together. This has been such a matter for me, and I would like to thank everyone for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1069	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1086	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1093	Let me also begin by thanking the proposers for the initiative and not least the Committee on Cooperation on the road in the work on this proposal for a representative. We have discussed and debated the law of religion earlier today, and there we were on the subject of this draft representative. The Committee therefore chose to run a parallel examination of the two cases. With this background, there is therefore the Innst. 208 L for 2019-2020 promoted a roman number proposal behind all batches: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for necessary legislative changes aimed at prohibiting long-stay fixed after-school accommodation to prevent segregation, parallel societies, negative social control or radicalisation.’ For the Right, it was natural that the issue of the representative proposal addressed was referred to in the context of the Creed Society Act. I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that an overall committee was involved in this. Nevertheless, the Labour Party and the SV today choose to promote a minority proposal in this case – a proposal that is in reality identical to the referenced proposal in the wording of the Constitution. There were several headlines in the media back in November last year that were the reason for the tematics being lifted. Here, it could be feared that children and young people could be subjected to segregation, negative social control or other harmful consequences for the affected, under the alibi of leisure activities. In Norway, we have been working for several years to prevent and combat negative social control. As a society, we must defend the rights of young people. An overall committee believes that the right of children to participate and to decide for themselves on matters of belief and outlook is of great importance. Then it has to balance with the parents' right to choose belief training for their children. Under the Children's Convention, the State is obliged not only to ensure the freedom of religious and life of children, but also to ensure, in general, good conditions for children to grow up and to provide protection against violence and abuse. The current proposals in the context of the Law on Religious Society can be seen as tools in this respect. It is also important to demonstrate that the activities of religious and life-view societies and other non-profit and humanitarian organisations are important venues for dialogue, cooperation and meeting places across cultures and religions. In Norway, we have a long tradition of, among other things, speeding movements and confirmation camps — as some examples. It is important that we do not hit such activities. It is ensured that the scope is discussed over a longer period of time in that position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1111	In Norway, freedom of belief is strong, as is the objective of safeguarding children’s rights. These were reinforced in 2014 by the decision of new Section 104 of the Constitution. These provisions are based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which provides a special protection of human rights for children and young people under 18. Parents’ rights to raise children in accordance with their life’s perspective cannot exceed the protection of human rights of their children and not under Norwegian law. This is confirmed by the fact that the Storting is today giving a clear mission to the government, the aim of which is to ban fixed after-school accommodation for longer periods of time in order to prevent segregation, parallel societies and negative social control. The Auxiliary Source Report, ‘Small Shoes, Great Faith’, tells of more problems with being a child in religious settings, which has led to negative consequences for them. It also tells of problems in being able to leave religious environments. This clearly confirms the need for increased control and community involvement to contribute, so that children and young people receive appropriate help. And it shows that the government's original proposal to strengthen supervision, among other things. by organisational intervention for fewer religious and life-seeking communities had deserved a better destiny than the majority of the population today were willing to give. I would also like to refer to the previous proposals of the Workers' Party on measures against social control and honorary violence and the decision of the Stortinge in connection with the examination of Document 8:118 S for 2017 – 2018, where the government is asked to make the supervision and transparency of the arrangements in Quran schools and other religious community schools part of the conditions for obtaining state aid. The Workers' Party also proposed not to grant grants to associations carrying out honourability tests and sibling childhood to mention something. It was then voted down. I would therefore like to reiterate the need for the development of a social contract between the authorities and registered religious and life views. This is due specifically to children’s and young people’s opportunities for integration, for example: in the case of participation in different common arenas. Dialogue in advance and continuously rather than only control reporting – we believe that in the Working Party on. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1126	The representative Kari Henriksen then drew up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1131	I want to start by giving praise to the proposers to address an important topic. I would also like to thank them for voting in favour of the proposals that have been important for the Progress Party in the field of the Law of Religion, which are now being adopted, and which are quite identical to this proposal, so that we can get the necessary ban. I think that the proposals for the religion law also go further and are more comprehensive, because not only are there so-called Koranskole-SFOs and similar offers in Norway, but there are also several things to be decided, including. how to prevent more children and young people from being sent abroad, as we know, in an organized way, both with online advertising videos and with agents recruiting parents to send children on such offers. I mentioned in my previous post today that over 400 children and young people should have been sent abroad against their will in the last two years. Among other things, the NRK has done an incredibly good job of revealing some of the schools abroad in which Norwegian children have ended up in – when we talk about Koran schools – among others. The Gargaar school in Mogadishu, Somalia, where as late as a few weeks ago, Norwegian youths have been placed against their will. We have also had a case a short time ago, when the police have filed an appeal – or it may have been intentional – against parents who have sent their children to these types of schools. We need a coordinated effort against untransparency teaching that can contribute to parallel societies, segregation, negative social control and, at worst, extremism here in Norway, and that can also prevent children and young people from being sent abroad to that type of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1140	The fight against negative social control is a struggle for freedom with women, men and children who are subjected to harmful control and segregation. That's why many people reacted when it was previously revealed that there are some religious communities that run extensive and closed overnight teaching arrangements without being open to society's transparency. In particular, it is the lack of transparency – there are closed rooms where this takes place – that has been so serious about this type of offer. We need to protect special children from control and segregation in enclosed spaces. Therefore, SV has been clear that such a practice without the transparency of society cannot be permitted, and therefore we promoted the proposal we are examining now to ensure that that is the case. Then it became obvious, especially after the party of progress went out of government, that this proposal would have a majority in Stortinget, and then an agreement was later reached in connection with the law of faith and life between the bourgeois parties, where it is proposed to do exactly what SV proposes in this matter. It's just to cheer for. Here we take an important step to protect children from negative social control and shed light on the closed spaces of religious communities. I am very pleased that we have received a pass for today in the Chamber. Then we continue to promote the request decision here, so that it becomes a clear story for later that this proposal was the background for this to be done, and that we are finally able to stop such closed overnight offers – and that it also has broad support in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1151	Proposalers are concerned about the negative effects of closed overnight leisure and teaching arrangements on long-term religious communities. The concern is that such arrangements involve or lead to segregation, negative social control or other harmful consequences for children. The government will work to prevent segregation, parallel societies, negative social control and radicalisation. At the same time, freedom of belief and life is a fundamental human right and a right that is strong in our liberal democracy. As the Committee also points out, it is important to stress that the threshold for intervention in internal affairs in religious communities should be very high. The government is committed to recognising parents' right to raise their children in accordance with their religion and outlook on life and the right and duty to guide their children on such issues. The government has presented a proposal for a new religion law, which will be adopted today. It contains several proposals to strengthen children’s rights. Firstly, the children's right to participate in matters relating to children's religion and outlook on life is promised in their own law. Secondly, infringing children's rights in religious or life-seeking societies may provide grounds for refusing or withdrawing grants. Negative social control is included. Thirdly, we propose that the communities of faith and life should report on their activities and offers to children and young people. If belief training is part of society’s activities, training will be subject to the reporting obligation. The Government Parties and the Advance Party shall have held in Innst. 208 L proposal for a request decision asking the government to come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals for necessary legislative changes with a view to overseeing or prohibiting long-stay fixed after-school accommodation for children and young people who may have a inhibiting effect on integration and who may contribute to parallel societies, segregation, radicalisation or negative social control. We have to follow this up in a proper and good way. Activities and offers to children and young people for religious and life's purposes are important venues for dialogue and cooperation and as meeting places across cultures and religions. It is not about such activities and offers this debate is about. I am committed to safeguarding children's freedom of thought, freedom of conscience and freedom of religion. It also includes the freedom to rest and participate in games and leisure activities appropriate to the child’s age. Therefore, recreational services must be designed to take account of children’s rights. For children and young people with weak links to Norwegian society, it is particularly important to facilitate their inclusion in common arenas. The main measure to ensure that our children are safe where they travel is openness, trust and good dialogue. These are important values on which the Norwegian society is based, and I am pleased that the vast majority of religious communities are engaged in following precisely this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1166	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Case No. 5-13 will be treated below one.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1272	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1288	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1300	During the debate, Mr Haltbrecken has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Act of Citizens shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 29(a) is added as follows: § 29 a Processing of personal data The bodies referred to in Section 2 may process personal data, including personal data as referred to in Articles 9 and 10 of the Data Protection Regulation, where this is necessary for the exercise of powers or for the performance of other tasks under the law here. The king may provide for the processing, inter alia, the purpose of the processing, the processing of personal data, the processing of personal data, the processing of personal data, access to further processing, disclosure, keeping of records and access to records.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the setting-up of the Committee for Section II new Section 29a. The Green and Red Environmental Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1410	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a draft law laying down the conditions for the use of automated decisions in matters of citizenship where the conditions and portfolios of matters to which this applies are clearly defined and defined by the Civil Code. It must also be clear from the law that the contested decision must be subject to manual review."; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1427	It is votated over I and III and the rest of II.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1437	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1447	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1459	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7-9, by Kari Henriksen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 10-12, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 13, from Himanshu Gulati on behalf of the Advance Party the proposals No 14-19 and Nos. 22, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 20 and 21, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 1–21 is included in the setting on pages 40–42. Proposal No. 22 is available in paper form in the room. Both the setting and the solution proposal are published in the salap.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1485	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with a case proposing a reflection of today’s graveyard responsibility, so that it is the municipalities that are responsible but have the right to transfer it to the socket.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1502	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a legislative amendment to ensure that the legal marriage must be sanctioned by the public». The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1519	There is a vote on proposal No. Nineteen, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to comply with the provisions of the Bill of Division on financial settlement in the event of mergers or changes in municipal boundaries».
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1534	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 22, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate whether state subsidies can be withdrawn or rejected by a particular congregation, regardless of its relationship with a larger religious and life-view society and regardless of whether state subsidies are sought from the central level in the concrete religious or life-view society – if/when the congregation violates the conditions for grants’. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The first paragraph of Section 4 shall be replaced by the following: A belief or life-view society may be registered when it is permanently organised and has at least 100 members who: a) have registered itself or have been registered by those who have the responsibility for the parent; (b) resided in Norway; (c) is not a member of the Norwegian Church or any other registered religious or life views society. Paragraph 5 third paragraph is replaced by the following: The grant shall be calculated according to the number of members of the religious or life-view society who meet the requirements of points (a) to (c) of the first paragraph of Section 4. The grant shall not be awarded to a belief and life-view society with less than 100 members.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1571	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-9 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6 shall be replaced by the following: If a religious and life-view society, or individuals acting on behalf of society, commits violence or coercion, presents threats, violates the rights of children, violates legal prohibitions of discrimination or otherwise seriously violates the rights and freedoms of others, or encourages opinions which are subject to a prohibition, society may be refused grants or grants may be curtailed’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The fourth paragraph of Section 11 is replaced by the following: In municipalities with several parishes, there should also be a church council. The church meeting may provide for the council to include several municipalities with one or more sockets. The Joint Council administers government grants to the sockets, has responsibilities for employees paid for by the Council budget, manages the church buildings and is local tomb authority unless otherwise determined by the Burial Act. The church meeting provides detailed rules for the division of tasks between the bodies of the parish. the fifth paragraph of Section 11 is replaced by the following: The municipality may appoint a representative to the Council of Churches. If the Council includes several municipalities, the municipalities may appoint one representative each’. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate and come back to Stortinget with a separate case on sanctioning options related to the reporting obligation’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1608	There is a vote on proposal No. Seventeen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals to strengthen its legal position and to continue the legislative process of the General Council, including its tasks, organisation and financial responsibility in the future’. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1625	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14, 16 and 18, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the supervision of religious and life-viewing societies receiving state grants — including inspections and unannounced supervision — to ensure that the activities do not conflict with the conditions for state grants’. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The fifth paragraph of Section 11 shall be replaced by the following: The municipalities appoint a representative to the Council of Churches. In municipalities with only one parish, the municipality nominates a representative who accedes to the council when it deals with matters associated with church councils in municipalities with several parishes. If the Joint Council includes several municipalities, the municipalities may appoint one representative each’. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for clarification of the location of employer’s responsibilities for local church employees’. The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1656	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose a model in which religious and life views do not receive public support’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1671	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10-12, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the development of a social contract in cooperation with the organisations of the religious and life-sight communities’. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The first paragraph of Section 4 shall be replaced by the following: A belief or life-view society may be registered when it is permanently organised and has at least 500 members who: a) have registered itself or have been registered by those who have the responsibility for the parent; (b) resided in Norway; (c) is not a member of the Norwegian Church or any other registered religious or life views society. Paragraph 5 first paragraph is replaced by the following: Registered religious and life-view societies which have concluded social contracts may require State grants. Paragraph 5 third paragraph is replaced by the following: The grant shall be calculated according to the number of members of the religious or life-view society who meet the requirements of points (a) to (c) of the first paragraph of Section 4. The grant shall not be awarded to a belief and life-view society with less than 500 members.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to propose conditions for independent belief or life-view societies to merge into an organisational superstructure and to obtain exemption from the number requirement. This is in line with the government’s proposal in the consultation note’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1715	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The first paragraph of Section 13 shall be replaced by the following: Church elections shall be held at the same time as public elections and in the immediate vicinity of the premises where the public elections are held». Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The fifth sentence of the second paragraph of Section 14 shall be replaced by the following: The draft budget shall also include grants to church positions in the fields of education, diaconics and church music.’» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e1743	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with its own case on the status and evaluation of the religious and life-view societies after the introduction of new guidelines for the receipt of State aid’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government requests a minimum of 40 pst. the representation of women in government-managed agencies.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking people who come to Norway to practise as religious leaders to have or acquire knowledge of the religious advisory role in the face of violence in close relations, exile experiences and central values of Norwegian society’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks that representatives of governing bodies which manage state support in religious and life societies be democratically elected’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2181	It is first voted on A I Section 5, first paragraph. The Labour Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2195	It is quoted above A I § 4, first paragraph, and § 5, third paragraph. Red has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2212	The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6 and the fourth paragraph of Section 11 shall be deleted. Red has announced subsidiary aid. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2228	The third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 14 shall be deleted. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2242	It is quoted above A I § 13, first paragraph, and § 14, second paragraph, fifth sentence. Red has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2258	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2268	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2279	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2306	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have now announced subsidiary aid for III.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2323	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to exercise a right of repatriation for property transferred to the Norwegian Church and to return to the Stortinget with proposals in connection with the bill following the Report. St. 29 [[2018–2019]] The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2355	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with proposals for a long-term financing plan for the conservation of the cultural-historical important church buildings.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2372	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the use of the opportunity contained in the clearance of rights relating to the Information Service Fund, so that today’s approximately 6400 fixed contracts are offered.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2389	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. ‘The government is asked to facilitate cooperation with the municipalities which ensures that wider societal considerations are taken up than those resulting from a single income requirement.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2467	During the debate, Mr Henriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back to the United Kingdom with proposals for the necessary legislative changes to ensure that different organisations – including in particular different religious and life views – are not legally able to conduct comprehensive and closed accommodation courses for longer periods of time, such as Qur’an School, which may involve segregation, negative social control or have other harmful consequences for children under the alibi leisure offer.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2497	Case No. 5–13 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to legislative acts 68–76. There are no comments on any of these issues. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-14.ana.ud498e2527	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
