ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e54	The representative Bears Moxnes, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first and second alternates of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes and Kristoffer Robin Haug respectively, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative of Une Bastholm, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The third alternate of Oslo, Hulda Holtvedt, is convened to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e106	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions by members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e113	Last year, VG wrote about a case in which 35 foreign employees had not received the salary they were entitled to. It could look as if they were trapped in a trap as a result of the provisions on leave in the People's Security Act. If they remained in the contract of employment, they did not qualify for a daily allowance, but took the initiative to cancel the contract themselves, they could risk being allowed a longer waiting period for a daily allowance. It is such that if you cancel the job yourself for no reasonable reason, it will take a while before you can claim a daily allowance for being free. Against this background, proposals were made either to amend the provisions of the Law on People's Rights or to clarify, or otherwise, that victims of trafficking in human beings and crime at work are exempt from the waiting time provisions of the Law. Waiting time is quite reasonable under normal conditions, but quite unreasonable when you have not actually been paid for the job you have done. That is why I would like to thank the proposers for bringing this up, because we are not going to have it that way. That is the subject of the Committee. Fortunately, it's not like this either. The Directorate-General for Employment and Welfare's circular on daily allowances gives several examples of matters which are considered reasonable and which are not intended to give longer waiting time, including if the position is paid significantly under tariffs or customs, or because of a significant breach of the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act. Breaking the contract with an employer who does not pay must be considered a reasonable reason. In the hearing on the matter, the organisations Hope for Justice and Fair Play Build underlined the need to clarify this to Nav, even though the intention is respected in today's legislation. Therefore, the Committee does not consider it necessary to amend the provisions of the People's Rights Act, but asks the Government to make it otherwise, and without delay, clear that victims of trafficking in human beings and the crime of working life are exempted from the waiting period. A safe working life with decent pay and working conditions is and shall be the bottom line of the Norwegian welfare model. However, the fact that Norwegian working life is mainly safe, good and decent does not mean that we do not find examples of unacceptable working conditions and have working life criminality. This undermines not only the rights and opportunities of the worker but also a serious and competitive Norwegian business and a sustainable welfare society. That is why I would like to thank the proposers again for focusing on the very exploitation of workers in Norway and unacceptable pay and employment conditions. It is in everyone's interest to combat both trafficking in human beings, the crime of working life and unacceptable conditions in the workplace. There is a joint committee behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e124	Many things have been waiting for the last few weeks. This case is one of those that it is important to be treated. It concerns, as the rapporteur has explained, our responsibility to combat cynical trafficking in human beings and the crime of working life and to protect those who become victims of unprofessional and criminal employers. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work, which has led to a unanimous vote by the Committee. Victims of trafficking and labour crime are often foreign and unorganised workers. They lack networks and languages and have poor knowledge of their rights as workers in Norway. They are transported here and taken by the employer, often under poor conditions. They are underpaid, partly paid white, partly black, if they are paid at all. If they say so, they stand without housing, without money to get home. They risk having to wait 12 weeks for a day's pay. When your pay is low, your daily allowance will also be low. Someone is exposed to violence and threats if they stand up and tell about their situation. In the last few weeks, the focus has been on those who no longer come to Norway to work. It has shown us how dependent our working life and well-being are, in fact, on foreign labour. It is all the more important, both for society and for individual workers, that those who come to Norway meet a decent working life with respect for the rights of workers, and that those who do not, but end up as victims of trafficking in human beings and the crime of working life, receive the necessary assistance to get out of the hands of unprofessional employers. It's about our ability and willingness to put in enough resources to expose such crimes. We've discussed that before, and we'll have many opportunities to discuss that later. This proposal is primarily about ensuring that legislation and practices do not further help to lock workers in an unsustainable situation, for example: through extended waiting time for daily allowances. The proposal, as the rapporteur said, is based on a concrete example – a reference in the VG last December, where employees contacted Fair Play Båg and Hope for Justice for assistance. Both organisations support the proposal, on which the rapporteur was involved, but have also pointed out that further action is needed to prevent workers, such as here, from being stuck in criminal networks. An overall committee calls for an overall exit strategy for the victims to be assessed in the ongoing work on a law against modern slavery. In response to the Committee, the Council of State points out that it is not necessary to amend the law or regulation, but the more important it is that the Council of State ensures that Nav has the necessary attention and competence to recognise and detect the kind of trafficking in human beings we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e137	Thanks to the rapporteur for a good review and a good cooperation on this matter. I would also like to thank the proposers for the matter and for providing a good explanation of this issue. As was explained, we are dealing with a Document 8 proposal on exemptions from the People's Security Act § 4-10 on extended waiting time for daily allowance for victims of trafficking in human beings and labour crime. There is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on this matter. In addition to breaking Norwegian laws, labour crime is also distorting competition by undermining Norwegian business practices. The whole committee – including the Progress Party – points to the seriousness of human trafficking, and the Progress Party also shares the view that serious crime must be prosecuted. When I mention criminal prosecution and crime, I am referring to the only part of this position in which the Progress Party has a different opinion from the rest of the committee, namely that we believe that claims are made to be subject to trafficking in human beings and/or work-life crime, it must be demonstrated by the fact that the relationship is confirmed to the police or notified to the Labour Inspectorate. We believe that serious crime should be reported and warned that it will also make it easier for employees, for example. on Nav to consider a single case and that it will be easier to get to the bottom of matters in this way by investigating it. However, I would like to point out the consensus that it has been in the Committee on Human Trade and the Crime of Labour, and from my side and the Progress Party, I look forward to good cooperation with the other parties on this issue in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e150	Like the other parties, the Zenterpartie will also thank the initiator of the Workers' Party for the proposal and the case rapporteur, Heidi Nordby Lunde, for the good work she has done in the matter. It is a joyous, little sparkle in the work of the committee and in so far as matters are concerned, that we can reach an agreement that says to the government that it will get settled in these matters in a necessary way and without delay. It is a prerequisite for a safe family life that we have a well-organized working life, and therefore the Centre Party is pleased to announce in the VG on 17 December last year, where employees of a company had problems because the owner was denied the right to engage in business for the rest of his life. To sum up, the job related to the State was because the State was the person who paid the company. The centre party will continuously promote proposals for improvements in this area, and that is why it is quite natural for us to be involved. It results in fair competition between the different companies and guarantees the rights of employees, and justice and security are necessary to ensure predictability for all those whose business and working lives are mandated. Thus, the rules of the game become widely known. Therefore, both the VG and the Workers' Party have done a good job in order to clarify a matter, so that it might lead to a slight improvement for some of those who are undergoing poor treatment in Norwegian working life today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e159	First of all, I would like to thank the case spokesman, who has released us safely through the work on this important Document 8. For the Christian People's Party, the fight against trafficking in human beings has always been an important asset. Trafficking in human beings is a gross violation of human rights and human dignity and nothing we can easily accept or accept. The typical victim is a foreign citizen, woman or man, who is in a vulnerable situation and is exploited by the grossest of the backers in search of profit. The way out of modern slavery can often be long, demanding and not least resource-requiring — resources that a person in a vulnerable situation does not have in most circumstances available. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a joint committee believes that there is a need to clarify that the victims of trafficking in human beings and the crime of working life are separate waiting destinations. Human trafficking or crime in the workplace cannot be tolerated as a society. The Christian People's Party will make it easier for people in a pressured and unworthy situation to break out of slavery in which they have been put by cynical backers. This is a step on the way to strengthening the rights of victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e170	Crime at work has serious consequences for workers, businesses and society as a whole. It can lead to a reduction in value creation and a weakening of the basis for well-being, and it can reduce trust in society. In order to maintain trust and working life, we need to follow the laws and regulations of the labour market, and criminals need to reduce their room for action. The rule of extended waiting time in the Social Security Act § 4-10 means that those who can be loaded for a period of unemployment must bear part of the financial burden of being without income. However, there is no longer a longer waiting period for persons who have had a reasonable reason to terminate their employment. It follows from current rules and practices that no extended waiting time is allowed when the background to the dismissal is gross work-life crime or trafficking in human beings. I think it is very good that this matter has come up, that the committee has gathered together, and that the Labour Party has taken the initiative in this matter. It is also because the starting point here – as has been pointed out – was a case in the VG that showed that there was confusion about what the legislation was. It is clear that a situation in which unclear legislation, possibly wrong legislation, would have made people who were victims of gross crime at work or trafficking in human beings without financial security unsustainable. I record that a single labour and social committee does not see the need for legislative or regulatory changes. The Committee asks the government to clarify in other ways that no longer waiting time should be allowed for victims of trafficking in human beings and crime at work, and that this should be done without delay. This is now being made clear. Of course, this debate and the matter are also important to the public, but we will also ask the Working and Welfare Unit to clarify in its circulars that serious crime at work and trafficking in human beings will be matters which are considered to be reasonable grounds for termination of employment. In my opinion, it would not be in accordance with the wording of the law today or current practice to limit this to conditions reported to the police or notified to the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e181	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e186	Thanks to the Council of State for a clear statement that ambiguity on legislation should not lead to people standing without income. I am also very pleased with the clarification given by the Council of State that if you are going to require that a situation has been reported to the police or notified to the Labour Inspectorate, it is a narrowing in relation to what is the premise in the legislation today. So I thank you for that. Then I have a question to the Council of State: In his last post of the Council of State, he said that the government is now investigating a law against modern slavery. Can the Council of State say something about when the Stortinget can expect to have such a law, and is the Council of State prepared to consider an exit strategy with different instruments that can further protect victims of trafficking in human beings and labour crime and ensure that they have real opportunities to break out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e195	Of course, some of the things I have done as Minister of Industry, I have to answer for also as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. However, it is difficult for me now, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, to say something about how other departments and government councils work on matters. What I can say is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Children and Family have worked with a law on modern slavery – it has to be investigated, it says in the Granavolden platform – and looks at whether it should be linked to a larger regulation. And once the departments responsible for this are clear, of course, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has to come in with our perspectives. One of the things we're concerned about is employment in Norway. But the starting point for the work done is probably primary employment elsewhere than in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e201	I thank you for your answer. I am also pleased that a unanimous Labour and Social Committee has underlined the need for an exit strategy, and perhaps it deserves to come as a matter of its own rather than being attached to a law, where it may not fit completely. It'll be up to the government to evaluate in the first round. In the specific matter we are talking about today, it was Fair Play Bygg Oslo and surroundings and Hope for Justice as the bisto employees along with LO. We know that Fair Play Build ever since the start-up a little over a year ago has delivered over 240 tips and warnings about criminal and critical conditions in working life to various public agencies. These are organisations with a high level of competence. Many of the people we're talking about here don't go to public offices, so I wonder if the Council of State has come up with some ideas about how public agencies can cooperate more closely with organizations like Fair Play Bygåg, Hope for Justice and the Uropatrol to discover human trafficking and labour-life crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e208	Also in political management, in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we have close and close contact with, among other things. Fair Play and other actors working against serious work-life crime. So I also agree with what the committee writes, that there is a need to work even more clearly, better and even more closely connected. The government is now working on how the agencies working with the a-krim centres can work better – also sharing information in a simpler way than today. We're working on a new, revised strategy against work-life crime. It is also important for action to be taken. In this context, of course, we will have meetings with those organisations that have a lot of competence and work on this daily, and who see how reality is out in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e213	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e231	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e238	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation in the handling of this matter. It is therefore a proposal for Norway to take an initiative in cooperating with other petroleum producing countries to limit petroleum production and thus complement the Paris Agreement. The proposal is based on an interesting article from a group of Norwegian climate economists last year, called The case for a supply-side climate treaty, where the argument is that reducing production would be beneficial for petroleum producing countries because it leads to an increase in price, while a higher petroleum price will accelerate the transition to alternative sources. The logic is that this would be a useful supplement to the Paris Agreement, which has its main focus on demand and not on supply. So I want to say that even though we are now in a very acute crisis, which updates all of these questions about oil prices in an extremely extreme way, it's important that we still think in principle. The climate crisis is even bigger than the coronary crisis. The climate crisis remains when the coronary crisis is over, and therefore it is important and welcome that long-term issues such as this are also discussed. The climate crisis is our biggest challenge. It is global, and it is in a solid Norwegian tradition that international initiatives are being taken to try to achieve collective action where action by each country will not be enough. However, when the Workers' Party, together with the majority of the Committee, does not support the proposal as it stands, it is not based on the fact that the idea is not considered to be interesting, but that it seems challenging in today's rather fragile geopolitical landscape to have an impact on such an agreement, and that it is likely that it should be developed considerably further before possible accession by the Norwegian side. Instead, the Labour Party has made an alternative proposal in this matter which we believe is both favourable to the world climate, as a contribution to the European transition towards a more renewable society and, at the same time, favourable to the Norwegian petroleum industry. It is the initiative to develop an international certification scheme for petroleum producers based on best practice in the market, i.e. in line with the precise targets set by the Norwegian oil and gas industry itself for emission reductions in production, promoted by a number of Norwegian oil companies and subsequently backed up by the KonKraft cooperation, which includes: LO's in. In addition to this favourable and good initiative by Norwegian petroleum producers, if a scheme were to provide for this type of behaviour, i.e. to aim at ever smaller emissions in production and to commit companies to also contribute to building renewable technologies, if it could become an international standard, that type of climate-friendly behaviour could also be given a premium in the market. I am aware that this is an idea for which there is a great deal of interest in parts of the Norwegian petroleum industry as well. It will be in the strong interest of Norwegian and Norwegian industries to be early in setting up these standards, which are measurable and thus verifiable. Finally, with regard to the original proposal, I would like to say that one point that that proposal seems to be not entirely to be taken over is that petroleum production will probably take place long after oil and gas have stopped being used for energy, because increasingly we see oil products also entering the petrochemical industry, and that is what we will continue to do. It can actually be that oil is an important input into a future circular economy, and if we succeed in carbon capture and storage and hydrogenation, we would also have a great potential to convert Norwegian gas into pure hydrogen through carbon capture. That is why, on our part - which is also the majority's side - we have agreed not to vote in favour of the original proposal. At the same time, I address the proposal made by the Labour Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e253	The representative Espen Barth Eide has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e258	We're now going to debate a matter that shows how changing the image of the world can be, and that also with all clarity demonstrates that our role, our influence, is not necessarily what creates the big changes for industries that mean a lot to Norwegian business. When a document 8 was presented in December 2019 that Norway should take an initiative towards other oil producing countries to reduce oil production, the price of oil was 100 dollars. The day we received a letter of response from the department and were going to start the work of writing notes on the matter, the oil price had dropped and was about $50 in the barrel. Now we see an oil price of less than $20 the barrel. This has given us a situation where OPEC+ agrees to cut oil production by 9.7 million barrels a day. In addition, further cuts from outside OPEC+ will be calculated at 6.7 million barrels of oil per day. Demand and price drop are the things that have our governing role in this image. The situation with a global pandemic crisis has caused the consumption of oil and gas to be greatly reduced. And even if this is a very demanding situation, it's the decline in consumption that's the goal of reaching the Paris targets. Right is of the opinion that Norway should contribute to the green shift, we do not do it primarily by strangling the energy supply. Stripping energy will increase the gap between poor and rich. Norway's contribution to the green shift should be to provide more pure energy, also to other nations as we do with our intermediate landscapes. Furthermore, it is developing and offering technologies that can use clean energy, as we demonstrate through the development of green shipping, as we do through incentive schemes to promote the use of electric cars, and as we provide for holistic chains in the production, distribution and use of hydrogen. What we need, is a massive effort to turn our energy consumption from fossil to renewable. Here Norway can play a role, and Norway is noticed here with something that matters to the world. This may help us to take on board new renewable technologies in terms of skills and knowledge acquired through complex oil and gas structures. And until we are there, Norway must continue to have as the main focus to produce the fossil energy the world needs, as climate-friendly and environmentally friendly as possible. This should be Norway's contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e275	Today, we are going to deal with several proposals from the Socialist Left, such as: Takes to reduce Norwegian oil production, cut emissions from industry, impose specific costs on Norwegian companies and impose concessions on already granted expansions — largely meaningless, mostly. An attacker on production that likes to have the lowest emissions in the world, and an attacker on companies that likes to have the biggest ambitions to operate with low emissions. Proposalers have a genuine desire for lower oil production. After many trials in which Norway is going to take these cuts alone, the proposers are now trying to reach an international commitment that will lead to the cutting of all of them. An international agreement on oil production reduction may have become a little more topical in these days than the proposers could imagine when the proposal was written, but the proposal does not become better or more realistic for that reason. The industry is now experiencing a very challenging situation in which, in addition to the coronary challenges, a conflict has arisen between several different oil producing countries that find it useful to increase their production, while demand has fallen sharply. It provides a very difficult situation that threatens both income to the welfare country and many jobs. These are the same countries with which the proposers want an overall agreement – a solid backstop to say that such an agreement as the proposers want is not exactly easy to achieve. It is well known that the proposers really want Norwegian petroleum to stop and that it will make a positive contribution to the current climate situation. Both I and the Progress Party strongly doubt that such a policy will lead to less emissions – rather the opposite. The foreground part is owned by Norwegian petroleum industry and believes that it is part of the solution for climate policy in the future. Just CCS and hydrogen are good examples of that. The Progress Party will work for a better situation for Norwegian petroleum industry, so that it can get through these challenging times, and that in the future we can contribute to the world's access to energy with as low a climate pressure as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e288	During the climate negotiations in Bali in the autumn of 2007, the then Norwegian government launched a major and important international initiative. Norway promised to spend up to 3 billion. kr for the conservation of rainforest. As we all know, the conservation of rainforests is a crucial measure to combat the climate crisis. The initiative speeded up the incredibly important work of preserving the rainforest, and this has been followed up by a large majority in the United Kingdom in the years to come. Now a group of Norwegian climate economists has called for new international cooperation — a separate agreement between fossil producing countries, an agreement whereby countries undertake to reduce their production. According to the researchers, such an agreement could lead to a forced transition to renewable energy sources, while petroleum producers would earn more per unit volume because of a slight decrease in the overall supply. The majority of the committee, consisting of the Right Party, the Centre Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, do not see such an agreement likely to be put in place in the foreseeable future. It is too defensive in the fight against what threatens our common future: the climate crisis. When we know that the planned fossil energy production in the world will be about 50 pst. higher by 2030 than would be in line with the objective of not increasing global warming by more than 2 degrees, and a total of 120 pst. higher than what it is possible to have if we are to keep the temperature increase of less than 1.5 degrees, the conclusion for us in SV is easy: we have to act. And history has taught us that what seems difficult, perhaps even unlikely, or unlikely, today can become a reality tomorrow – only some take responsibility, go ahead and take initiative in international cooperation, as Norway did in the climate negotiations in Bali in 2007. Of course, we are going to do something about the demand for fossil energy sources, but it is nevertheless necessary and possible to limit the amount produced, because increased production puts pressure on increased consumption. With that, I take up the proposal from the SV and the Greens' Greens' Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e303	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e308	The representative Haltbrecken started with rainforest betting and the big job that Norway has been working for, an international effort to preserve the rainforest. That's very good. Similarly, I would point out that in the health sector, Norway also makes a large international contribution. We have had the Secretary-General of the World Health Organization, Gro Harlem Brundtland. We've been involved in the development of vaccines. The Ebola vaccine is the last example where Norway had an important position. We have one of the world's leading health anthropologists, John-Arne Røttingen. We are going to use these resources, and therefore we are also going to listen to the researchers who point out that such an agreement as is proposed here by representatives of the Socialist Left Party is one of the possibilities. Norway is a major power in terms of oil and gas. We produce about 2 pst. of the world's oil use and 3 pst. of the gas consumption. At the same time, we are taking the lead in electrification, carbon capture and storage, and on the demand side, we are seeing more and more what Norway's role in electric cars can do to reduce demand. We are now in a situation where demand has fallen dramatically in the oil and gas sector because of the coronary apathy. We have also seen how demanding it is to reach an international agreement when some countries go to the price war on oil and gas at the same time. It says something about Norway having to give priority to resources. I am very pleased that Norway has leadership positions in advancing the UN's sustainability goals, in the case of the Paris Agreement, and that we have concluded an agreement with the EU on climate change in Europe. The quota obligation and the CO 2 tax are the instruments on a Norwegian base, but we also go ahead in terms of carbon capture and storage. We also have possibilities within hydrogen. Having the shirt is an important position to take, and it also costs a lot of money. In a small country like Norway, we are dependent on prioritising our efforts. That's some reason why we're saying this is a little bit ahead of time, but that doesn't mean that we can't work to make such an agreement, even though it looks a little difficult these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e322	All batches in this room, with the possible exception of the Advance Party, believe it is right and important to reduce demand for oil and gas. Where we separate layers, it's the question of whether it's right to take action to reduce supply. This case is about the offer page. SV proposes to initiate an agreement with other oil producing countries to promote conversion and limit the production of oil and gas. In a world that has already found more coal, oil and gas than we can burn if we are to avoid dangerous climate change, it is obviously necessary to cut the supply in addition to demand. Several leading economists, among them many Norwegians, have addressed this very point. In view of that, I find it strange that responsible political parties believe that we should continue to invest in oil and gas, as if climate change did not exist. There's something fundamentally absurd about giving full gas in an industry that we know is going to be less important in the years that are coming. I think it's sad that one of the biggest issues of conflict in Norwegian policy in 2020 has been whether we're going to open up even further north. It's a climate policy failure statement at all to look for more fossil energy when we know we can't burn it. Nevertheless, what the government does. Not later than three weeks ago, the Council of State proposed adding 36 new blocks to the TFO area. It is now being discussed whether the oil industry should be given even more favourable tax conditions than they already have. To bet on oil and gas in 2020 is to bet on the failure of international climate policy. The issue we are discussing today is whether Norway should initiate an agreement with other oil producing countries to promote conversion and limit the production of oil and gas. The Greens are sceptical about setting up a new contract institute alongside the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement. Perhaps it would have been a better solution to negotiate a reduction in oil production in the existing negotiations, but we support the intention. The Greens will have a gradual phase-out of oil and gas activities on Norwegian soil, and we will therefore vote in favour of SV’s proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e331	The world's climate and energy challenges are global and need to be addressed through global cooperation. This is also the starting point for the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement. In Norway, however, we also need to cut our own emissions significantly, quickly and adequately. The government is therefore committed to pursuing a responsible and predictable petroleum policy in response to the climate challenges. The government’s climate policy aims to cut emissions as quickly as possible and to help develop technological solutions that enable the world to achieve common climate objectives. We will convert the Norwegian economy and help Norway become a low-carbon society by 2050. We want to do this together with the EU through common emission targets and instruments. The main objective of the government’s petroleum policy is to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas from a long-term perspective. There is broad support in the UK for that policy. Quota duty and CO 2 tax are the main instruments of climate policy. The price of emissions on Norwegian cap is much higher than in other petroleum producing countries. These instruments work. The average emissions per unit of production on Norwegian cap are about half of the average for other petroleum producing countries. Even in a world that meets the objectives of the Paris Agreement, new petroleum investments will be needed. This is due, inter alia, to: today's field will be empty. The Norwegian cap today covers about 2 pst. of the world's oil use and 3 pst. by the use of gas in the world. These shares will be difficult to maintain when large producing fields are exhausted in the years to come. The climate and energy challenge is our greatest challenge, but the proposal for long-term production cooperation as a climate action is not realistic. There is reason to stress that the producer cooperation that exists today in OPEC+ is being done to keep the oil price up and more stable. It took the world’s country a lot of energy and years to reach the Paris Agreement in 2015. This agreement focuses on the demand side. I believe that the most important and realistic job we're going to do in the future is to strengthen this part of international climate cooperation. Here the government is doing a lot, and we'll do more in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e350	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e355	Government Council Bru and I agree that the Paris Agreement must be the primary framework for the transition we now need from fossil to renewable and to a more climate-friendly economy. What I would like to hear from the Council of State was the proposal put forward by the Workers' Party, an agreement on the certification of oil products, petroleum products, with regard to the standards that Norwegian industry is now at the forefront of developing, i.e. less emissions in the production phase and at the same time an obligation to contribute actively to the development of the industries that will represent the green shift. Is it an idea to welcome the initiative of the industry at the top of – as we have both done – and to take the initiative for such a certification scheme? That would be the case, for example. Europe could be used to distinguish products that come from those that think so, and those that do not think so. It would be good for the climate and good for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e360	I think the global market is already quite conscious of the job the industry is doing here in Norway, the results we have to show, and the low emissions we have after all in our production. With regard to the specific proposal, I basically think that it is a fine recognition of the job done. But I think what's most important is the big common climate plan that the industry has come up with – that they actually implement it, and that we as authorities support it through the climate policy we are pursuing, where we continue to make use of CO 2 pricing in combination with the quota price to trigger climate investment. I think it's the most important thing. And to the concrete proposal: I guess it wouldn't have been that much more than a fine recognition. I still think the plans they have are the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e370	I am very much in favour of the plans that the industry has, and I have – like the Council of State and other representatives of many parties – expressed that it is a very good initiative, we should back that up. What we are proposing is further support for this, because in the dialogue with the European Union, such as the European Union. The Council of State will have in months and years to come, when they develop their green deal, the European Green Deal, it is clear that, in principle, everything will be decarbonised in the long term, while recognising that one will be operating with oil and gas for a long time because tomorrow's decarbonisation is technically impossible. It could be interesting if Norway also raised the attention to how the petroleum products that are still being produced are actually produced. I think a thought of setting standards for this too would have been accepted with open arms by the EU. The question is then: Will the Council of State at least assess whether this is an initiative she can take in the forthcoming dialogue with the European Commission on their implementation of the European Green Deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e377	As I said, I think it is a fine recognition of the job that is being done. I don't know if I think that in itself would have the effect that the representative here points to. I also think that they are well noticed already, the grips that are taken, that you, for example. on Norwegian pedestal to a very large extent today electrifying. In that case, I believe that if such a proposal had something to do with it, it must have come from the industry itself. Then they themselves had to have brought this in as an initiative in the context of the climate plans they already have. I believe that broad consensus and support between all the actors on the base, the employees and those who contribute to value creation are necessary in order to promote, for example. such an initiative. But I'm very pleased with the efforts the industry is making. I think they have very ambitious plans, and I think we should be very proud that as a nation we have an industry that goes ahead to lead to a more environmentally friendly and climate friendly production of petroleum.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e384	I really have two questions for the Council of State, because I understand that the Council of State and the Government will not take the initiative in an international agreement, as we propose. One of my questions is: How will the Council of State deal with the initiative of such an agreement as we have proposed, from other major fossil energy producers – will the Council of State and the government look at such an agreement and possibly participate in it? The second question is more related to the current situation: Will the Council look at measures to limit Norwegian oil production in the light of the current situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e389	In some exceptional cases, the history of Norway has cut production. Its purpose has always been linked to good resource management and Norwegian economy considerations. Oil market policy here has not involved compulsory cooperation in production with other countries. That's the way it is now. Nor will this be the case in the future. Norway is too efficient energy markets, where emissions are priced. In general, we believe that this serves both users and producers of energy. It also applies to oil. Large price quotations need to be made to balance markets in such situations. I have said that given a situation where a broad collection of oil producing countries would decide to carry out a cut in production, Norway would consider doing the same, but then a unilateral cut for the sake of our resource management and our economy. We're doing that process in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e398	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e416	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e423	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good work on this proposal from the Socialist Left, which deals with different ways of cutting emissions from the oil and gas industry. Let me just say first of all that all the parties are concerned that we should contribute to Norwegian oil and gas production being still the purest in the world, and that there are many ways that are profitable for both society and company – and still cut emissions. But the big discussion that is being led out of this proposal, which also shares the committee in the setting that lies before us, is what kind of regulatory approach to impose on our industry – in the quota sector – requirements different from those of competing countries. In addition, this proposal goes much further, for example: when one of the Socialist Left Party and the Environmental Party of Greens does not propose to grant more permits to search for fossil energy on a Norwegian base. There is a major shift in direction that would then take, which would endanger tens of thousands of jobs, and which would remove the basis for what makes Norway a rich and well-being country, namely that we have managed to manage our natural resources wisely, create values, create profitable jobs in industry, and at the same time clearly develop a technologically oriented industry that helps to ensure that the production that takes place in Norway takes place with the lowest footprint of production. There is a great deal of this discussion that has also been discussed in the course of the proceedings, and the debate today is likely to also be influenced by the fact that the Stortinget is gathering against the type of proposals that only weaken the Norwegian financial base, the basis for profitable jobs, and, not least, not necessarily contributing to reduced global emissions, but on the contrary to reduced domestic production, while — given that demand is to be met — production will rather occur in countries with higher emissions. With that, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee once again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e436	As part of the global society, Norway needs to contribute to a reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions. The oil and gas industry on Norwegian soil is already subject to strict emissions and environmental requirements rules. The quota obligation and the CO 2 tax are existing instruments that have had a proven effect and will continue to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian socket. The industry has set ambitious targets and will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. in 2030 compared to 2005, and to near zero in 2050. The industry has stated that the targets will be updated in line with strengthened Norwegian and European emission targets as they are adopted. The working party considers that the country should use public tender procedures to put in place more green measures in the oil and gas industry, such as the electrification of oil platforms on a Norwegian base and the requirement for equivalent emission reductions in production elsewhere in the world. At the same time, the Labour Party believes that the State needs to work to put in place a premium in the market for best practices in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This will stimulate the development of new adjoining industries, such as sea wind and hydrogen, as well as the capture, use, transport and storage of carbon. Everything contributes to real cut in emissions and makes the Norwegian petroleum industry cleaner compared to most other producers. The Workers' Party believes that the Document 8 proposal we are now considering on a binding commitment for the oil and gas industries to cut greenhouse gas emissions will not be appropriate, as an overall industry has already set ambitious targets that they are in the process of implementing and that will be continuously upgraded. Conversion is underway, and oil and gas industries are making considerable efforts to contribute to real emissions reduction while working to adapt to a global energy market in rapid change. Norway was in the early stages of introducing a CO 2 tax, prohibiting torching and requiring electrification. All of this has contributed to the industry itself having ambitious plans for the implementation of cuts in its own greenhouse gas emissions. From a state standpoint, we must ensure that the implementation of these plans takes place in a fast and effective way by playing with industry, and it has not become less topical with the ongoing pandemic and the coronary crisis. The Labour Party therefore does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e455	But the representative would like to address the Labour Party's proposals in the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e460	Since I got a mild reminder and have a few seconds left, I take up both the suggestions we are part of, and congratulate Sandra Borch on the day! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e465	It was a pleasant greeting from the representative of Runar Seestad, who also addressed the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e470	I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Borch on the day. And I know that for the birthday she gets one of her favorite things: a debate about NorthConnect – a little later today! Then I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the good work and for the excellent statements of the case rapporteur, to which we could subscribe. But there are some things that don't stop amaze me in the Norwegian political debate. One of them is the weak attitude some people have towards Norwegian interests, or the uninterested attitude they have towards the efforts of Norwegian companies. The first thing that struck me when I read this proposal was whether the proposers have got what happened in January, when an overall industry – with the social partners – presented their actions, their roadmap to cut emissions on Norwegian pedestal. So it's a commitment the industry has made itself. I think it makes sense, both because it cuts emissions, for conversion and also for the reputation of Norwegian pedestal. But it has nothing to say for the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party – no, it has nothing to say! The question arises: If a tree falls in the forest, has it really fallen if the Stortinge has not adopted it? No trust in Norwegian companies at all, but it is because it is the industry they want to live, cost what it will cost – cost what it will cost for Norway, and cost what it will cost for all the people who work in this industry. In fact, in a previous case we have dealt with in this room, they have admitted in comments that the world is still going to need petroleum production for a long time to come. They just don't want Norway to run it, so instead of recognising what's happening on the Norwegian base from the companies there, you have to strangle them, strangle their ability to push ahead and cut their emissions. It is also proposed that no more be granted. Pre corona we saw an industry that has worked hard to spread. If industry is to be able to expand as an energy sector, it must also have revenues to do so. Due to the allowance obligation and the CO 2 tax, companies take into account greenhouse gas emissions in their investment and operational decisions. Then I see that one again raises the Johan Castberg debate. Then I would like to remind you that it is not possible both to propose to stop Johan Castberg, and to propose a landing. I have not yet seen any proposals, concretely, which would resolve the situation of landing at Johan Castberg. All I see is slogans in the form of proposals, and they don't last. We are on the agreement that was concluded when we dealt with the Johan Castberg case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e486	I would like to thank you for the congratulations. I'm looking forward to the debate on NorthConnect afterwards. This is a proposal for a representative dealing with stricter legislation on the oil and gas industry, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, halting development and landing. First of all, let me just say that Norwegian oil and gas industry on Norwegian soil is already subject to strict legislation – yes, one of the most stringent legislation in the world – and there is a broad consensus that it should be continued. At the same time, it is gratifying to see that even in recent years the industry has taken the initiative to set ambitious targets in line with Norwegian and international climate commitments. Fortunately, we have a broad majority of the Storting who have been behind the news of big business related to the oil and gas industry, which over the years has ensured predictability in the industry, and which I think we are going to be very happy with today. The central party believes it is important to continue the main lines of Norwegian oil and gas policy. When we're in on birthday gifts, I'd like to land on Johan Castberg for a birthday present. We were very disappointed when it was not landing at Castberg. It was linked to strong and clear expectations, even from the industry itself. I just have to stress the importance of the industry aligning its activity with local value creation. In today's situation with regard to corona, we see that the supply industry in Norway is struggling. Already there are many redundancies. Landing at Johan Castberg had meant a lot to the supplier industry as well. I therefore think it is a pity and regret that the proposal on landing today does not have a majority. As I said, I want a birthday present today, and it's landing at Veidnes in Finnmark. I bring up the proposal that the Senterpartiet has with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e501	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e506	I will also join in the congratulations sent to the representative Borch, but I believe that an even bigger birthday present than a discussion about NorthConnect would have been discussions about bears, wolves and shots. We'll remember that for next year. This matter is essentially due to the fact that oil companies, those that have been responsible for the greatest growth in greenhouse gas emissions, are subject to the same requirements as the rest of society in the fight against the climate crisis. I am pleased that the oil companies presented plans to cut their own emissions earlier this year, but their objectives allow their emissions to be higher by 2030 than they were in 1990 – the year we calculate the international climate commitments. The climate change target Norway had notified in the context of the Paris Agreement, when this proposal was presented, was to cut emissions by 40 pst. Compared to 1990. This target is now to be increased to at least 50 pst. Equinors and the industry's goal is to cut by 40 pst. compared to 2005. Although it is a big cut, it will still mean that emissions will be higher in 2030 than in 1990. Therefore, the sector will not be in the forefront of cutting greenhouse gas emissions, but will cut too little compared to what Norway as a nation is going to do. This means that others in Norway need to cut more to meet our international obligations. So the oil companies and the majority of the majority in the United Kingdom want industry and ordinary peoples to take more responsibility in the climate battle than the oil industry – which is responsible for the greatest growth in emissions. We cannot accept that when we know that fossil energy production is precisely the cause of the climate crisis we are facing. On 26 November 2019, Mr Tina Bru, current Minister for Oil and Energy, announced the following to the NRK: ‘We must have a zero vision for Norwegian carbon dioxide preferably by 2035, but not later than 2050.’ This was a far more ambitious objective than the oil companies and the majority in this room today are in favour. We have therefore taken the floor from the Minister of Oil and Energy to promote her proposal on zero emissions from the petroleum sector by 2035. But I am afraid that it is only us and the Green Party that support the Council of State in this objective. Not even her own party traps will support her in it. I'll bring it up to you the suggestions SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e527	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e532	The premise for this matter changed strongly this week when it appeared that Equinor is considering scrapping his entire climate plan if they do not get the crisis package that the oil industry wants. To use a parliamentary expression, it is a mildly perceptive extortion. Of course, the oil industry has to take its share of the responsibility for cutting emissions, like everyone else. In Norway, the share of responsibility for the oil industry is very high. Equinor cannot and shall not require even more favourable tax conditions than they already have to cut emissions. As I said, the world has already found more coal, oil and gas than we can burn if we are to avoid dangerous climate change. Therefore, it does not keep cutting emissions from the production of a product which primarily gives rise to emissions during combustion. Norway’s oil and gas exports lead to emissions to other countries of half a billion tonnes each year. It is about ten times as much as Norway’s total annual greenhouse gas emissions. By 2030 greenhouse gas emissions must be halved. By 2050 they must be net zero. The main reason for the climate crisis is that we burn too much coal, oil and gas. It's that simple and so difficult. Therefore, the Greens will carry out a planned and gradual phasing-out of the oil business on Norwegian soil. That is why we are voting today to stop the extension of the Johan Castberg field and not to give more permits in Norway and on a Norwegian base. We are also voting in favour of any proposal that will cut emissions from the oil and gas industry. Finally, a explanation of vote: in addition to the proposals we are part of in the vote, we are also voting in favour of proposal No. 2, 7 and 8 and the resolution of proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e543	In the middle of the corona pandemic, we have also experienced a little experiment, a little attempt at what it is like to live a little bit more climate friendly. In the last month, fossil fuel sales have decreased by 10 pst. It says something about what challenges we face when Norway has decided to cut emissions by at least 50 pst. in the non-quota sector by 2030. The oil and gas sectors have created a road map where they say they should cut 40 pst. in production. It's a formidable challenge we're facing, and it's a transformation that we kind of have a little bit of fun preparing for -- what we're going to do over the next ten, twenty, thirty years. But it wasn't planned, and that's the big challenge with the situation we're in. Quota duty and CO 2 tax are the main policy instruments we have set up for the oil and gas sector. I said in the previous debate that Norwegian oil production accounts for approx. 2 pst. consumption in the world. If we don't do anything new and don't expand any new fields, it drops to 1.5 pst. It says something about that it's not now we're on the big uphill, we have it behind us. The last twenty years in the oil and gas sector have been adventurous, both in production growth and in earnings, i.e. in economic terms. The Socialist Left Party has been in government for eight of the twenty years and has been on that procession. They have also helped to open the Barents Sea south-east for new exploration and drilling activities. It's a little to be at the forefront of cutting off these proposals. It is important that there is accountability and long-termity in the actions that we are going to set up after the next few years. Part of this is Norwegian technology, and it's also an important part of the debate – the fact that we're leading the process of electrifying production on the base, that we're very advanced in using liquid sea winds, we put a lot of money into developing carbon capture and storage, and with it also creates an opportunity to use hydrogen on the base. So Norway is doing a lot of important. It's a cost picture, it's a little bit of a tempo here. This is also an important part of the green shift, and we're now really discussing only when it's proper to reduce the oil and gas share in the energy mix, or how fast we can phase it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e555	We need to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. This means that we need to reduce emissions significantly and quickly also here in Norway. Together, we have set ambitious targets to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions both for 2030 and 2050. If we are to succeed, we must cooperate. Our cooperation with the EU in the ten-year period up to 2030 is a central part of our climate policy. Norway has also reinforced its 2030 climate change target to at least 50 pst. and up to 55 pst. We are working for the EU to do the same, and we want to cooperate with the EU also in the implementation of the reinforced objective. The objectives of the Paris Agreement cannot be assessed in isolation but must be seen in conjunction with the other UN sustainability objectives – not least the objective of ensuring all access to reliable, sustainable and modern energy at an affordable cost. Oil and gas will be needed for decades to come. At the same time, we need to convert into an increasing share of renewable energy in the global energy mix and more efficient use of energy resources. As a result of the strict climate policy in Norway, we have been producing oil and gas with very low emissions on a global scale over several decades. This policy has also led to a high level of innovation at the operator and supplier levels, enabling us to reduce emissions even more in the future. I think it is good that the industry, together with the KonKraft partners, has set ambitious climate targets. It shows that our instruments are working. I do not believe that a type of government-driven plan on zero emissions from the petroleum sector, which the representatives are calling for, will work better than that. We as the authorities will continue to facilitate the reduction of emissions. Developing and putting into service low- and zero-emission technologies shall be profitable. These are technologies that can both contribute to the reduction of emissions from the petroleum industry and can be put into service and create competitive advantages in other industries as well. Examples of such technologies are the capture and storage of CO 2 and not least offshore sea winds. If we are to achieve the Norwegian climate targets and at the same time develop Norwegian soil so that we produce even lower greenhouse gas emissions, it requires cooperation. It requires cooperation at political level, among companies and with the social partners. I am convinced that we will succeed, and that the petroleum industry will continue to be a supporter of the Norwegian economy and of the Norwegian welfare society – also in the transition to the low-carbon society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e580	We were, as I mentioned in my post, very many who were disappointed when there was no landing at Veidnes in Finnmark in connection with the development of Johan Castberg. We also see that the resistance in North Norway, and especially in Finnmark, to the oil and gas industries is increasing greatly. So my question to the Council of State is, what will she do to ensure value creation and ring-effects in North Norway related to the oil and gas industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e585	I very much agree with what the representative says that creating local ring-effects is incredibly crucial to ensure legitimacy for this industry, along the coast and throughout the country. The creation of jobs from that activity out in the sea is crucial. It will also be in the future. So I understand that disappointment – I understand that very well. Then it's like the companies are going to decide how the oil is being transported from the field, and even though all the stones have been turned around, unfortunately the companies have not succeeded in finding a sensible arrangement, at a profitable price, for reloading the Weidnes. But there is no doubt that the development of findings in the Barents Sea will also create local ring-effects. If we find more – by maintaining predictable frameworks, continuing to have an active search policy and providing a basis for making more findings and expanding more – that situation may also change. But that's what's crucial: we have to keep looking, we have to keep finding. Then we will also have ring-effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e594	The council said in its statement something like this: I do not believe in a government-driven plan for zero emissions. What, then, does the Council of State think of Tina Bru, who, in November, called for a zero vision for greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian socket, preferably by 2035? Don't the councils have faith in Tina Bru at the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e601	I would say that there is a difference between having a vision, having a goal, having a desire for where you want to, in partnership with the industry itself, and putting the framework through political instruments, such as. The CO 2 tax, to trigger it – and to have a government-led plan for how to get there. It is the framework we have, which provides the basis for companies to make profitable decisions, and if the decisions are not profitable at the bottom, they will not be implemented either. We need companies to be active, that they have investment plans, that they want to expand, that we need to be able to trigger, for example. emissions reduction, new technologies in a more climate-friendly direction. So I'm still saying that I had an output in connection with the program process in the right. I believe it is important to have political visions about where you want to go, and then I believe that the authorities need to put the framework – through tools, measures, law, tax – to get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e611	Won't that just be a plan to reach the vision that Bru called for, what she is now describing? I also fully agree that we as politicians must have visions, but in order for those visions to become reality, they must be followed up with concrete plans and actions. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e616	If you want to call government's offensive climate policy and our instruments a plan, you have to do it. I'm concerned that they trigger what we all want. When the industry itself has very ambitious objectives that show that this is possible – because of those tools – I am satisfied. We may be happy together about it, but that's not how I see the proposal that's here from SV. Then I have to say – and I might have a natural scepticism for some of the things that come from the Socialist Left – that there is a lot that is a little special in this proposal. There is something special on the one hand to say no to the Castberg development and at the same time to say that you want to land the oil from there, and then you want to electrify it. One must then really build something in order to do the other things that SV proposes in this proposal. Then it might not be so strange that I have some skepticism about what kind of plan would really mean for a party like the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e624	It's not that hard to explain the position in the Castberg case. SV is in principle against distributing new permits to the oil industry. Then we register that there is a majority in this room to expand the Johan Castberg field. Then we have proposed that those who have to take the greatest consequences, in terms of the risk of oil spills, should also be those who have the benefits of doing so. So here you're dealing with primary positions and secondary positions, and I think that the Council of State Bru also meets daily in his work as the Council of State. The question is then: what will the Council of State do now that there will be no landing on Veidnes, to ensure that there will be local ring-effects of the Johan Castberg development?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e631	I just point out the strange thing in and think it's something special to be very concerned about the ring effects and the workplaces and the activity if you're not for that activity initially. I think we all would have been well served to say that this is actually good, this is something that creates jobs, it gives value creation – then you have to have found, then you have to build out, and then the other things come later. And then I think it's a little strange: it's part of me that wants to ask the representative if he still thinks that we should end the Castberg development at the time we're in now, where we know that the country is in a very special situation. To stop the Castberg expansion is to stop 47 000 annual works. There is no doubt that this will also create ring effects in the north. The Castberg extension will provide opportunities in the municipality of Nordkapp, there is no doubt about it, although – as I said earlier in my reply to another representative – I share and understand the disappointment that there was no landing at Castberg. But with new findings and more profitability, the future may be different.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e638	That question is not answered by the representative in this round, for the next replicator is Runar Seestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e643	It's true, as many people have said, that it was a great pleasure when you decided to expand the Johan Castberg field. That joy was partly linked to the promise of landing. Then Equinor in retrospect has gone away from his own promises. I think they underestimate the reputation loss and the increased resistance that is a direct consequence of it. Of course, I won't add that to the minister, but what I want to ask is, can you, in any way, influence, so that you can reverse that decision? The industry, the nation and the world are in a different situation than when those decisions were taken. I understand that we are not resolving this matter through a comprehensive proposal for a representative: in paragraph 1. 6 in the proposal for a representative, it is proposed not to expand the field, and in paragraph 6. 8 it is proposed to land from the field which is not to be developed. But can you help get the desired solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e648	As I have said in many of my previous answers here today, I fully agree that creating ring-fences on land, seeing what the activity in the sea brings with it also in terms of jobs, and that things happen locally, are very important for the legitimacy of the industry. It will also be important in the future. Again, I understand the disappointment. But Johan Castberg development will have significant ring-effects in the north, both in the deployment phase and in the operational phase. The Castberg field is to be operated from Harstad and Hammerfest and will provide profitable jobs and new opportunities for local and regional enterprises. Unfortunately, the companies in the Johan Castberg field have failed to find a sensible arrangement for reloading crude oil on Veidnes that would not lead to a loss in the billion-dollar class of society. Then we're back to what other representatives have been a little bit involved in here too, that finding a solution when it's not profitable and the companies are unable to raise it that way is difficult. It is the companies in the Johan Castberg field that have to decide how to transport the oil from the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e657	We had a hearing in this case, and on direct questions to Equinor's management about whether the project was landing, the answer was that this is profitable anyway. I believe this is an important and correct project at a time when the industry is struggling. I hope that's realized. I am aware of the enormous national and regional ring-effects, with the Hammerfest environment, which are very important to us, and with the operating organisation in Harstad, but there has been a complete failure in the local ring-effects of the municipality of Nordkapp. It disappoints me and many others big. So even though there is still goodwill towards this industry, and there is a desire for increased activity also in the Barents Sea – we have several issues where we come back to this, to facilitate an industry and continued development and growth – I am still disappointed by the landing decision. My question is still: have you put it completely dead, or is this something that you are still trying to find a different solution to than the one that has been chosen for now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e666	As I have said before, Johan Castberg is also offering new opportunities in the municipality of Nordkapp. Companies are planning to step up the capacity for emergency training and maritime training for the activity in the Barents Sea. They intend to use facilities in Honningsvåg and are in dialogue with possible local partners about it. This use will increase activity and employment in the region and will strengthen an important security and preparedness environment in Finnland, which may also benefit other industries. I also have to repeat something else I have said earlier: I think that some of the key to achieving such solutions is finding more, that you have a predictable oil and gas policy that makes it possible to search, that facilitates the profitability of making investments in Norway, and that makes it possible to also raise projects that create local ring-effects. I would have liked a solution to this, but the companies could not find a reasonable solution at a price that made it possible to defend.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e675	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e682	I would like to join in the congratulations that go to the representative Borch. I promise there will be a lot of things about shooting and wolves in the future, but I also expect an invitation to Eilef's Landhandleri on the first occasion. It does not seem to me that the proposers have faith in the existing agreements to which the sector relates today – the rules for emissions and environmental requirements imposed on the industry – and the ETS sector in Europe. These are effective instruments and have contributed to the low emissions currently on the Norwegian base. At the same time, the industry has great ambitions to cut more. However, Norway’s largest contribution to the Paris Agreement does not take place through domestic cuts. This is done by the cuts achieved by exporting gas and allowing the beneficiary countries of Europe not to use coal. I think that the proposers will also admit that if we are to achieve lower emissions globally, that is the challenge of using coal we have to solve. If we don't solve it, we won't solve the problem. The problem for Norwegian environmental movements is that we do not have coal in the mainland, and this makes it harder to problematize. That is why criticism must be directed to other industries. The next major climate project Norway can contribute is the launch of Baltic Pipe — a gas pipeline to Poland. With this project, we can reduce emissions in Poland by 80 million tonnes of CO 2. It is 1.5 times the total emissions in Norway. It emerges from the proposers that Europe will demand less gas in the future. It is possible, but does it not matter who delivers the rest of the gas that Europe will be able to use anyway? The alternatives to Norway are Russia and Africa. In any case, it is important that Norway can supply gas to Europe. If we are to be able to ensure this, we need to give the industry access to new areas that can ensure new findings – not what the proposers want: refuse new licences on a Norwegian base. Finally, I could imagine turning around a little bit about the problem that one of the proposers had in the loop with the Council of State. Proposals shall boast of how they are able to present themselves as opponents of the projects while being able to maintain the local effects of the same projects. I don't have to ask how it relates that the proposers have planned to get the oil ashore from the Johan Castberg field when they don't want to realize the project at the same time. I don't have to ask why one should electrify Johan Castberg at the same time as one asks the authorities to stop the project. But what I can ask about is how the proposers see themselves replacing the ring-fences of local activity from these projects when, with the policy of the proposers, they will disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e700	I would like to address another of the proposals that are being promoted today in this matter, which we are promoting together with the Centre Party. It is on the follow-up to the Climate Risk Committee’s investigation. The Climate Risk Committee presented its investigation in December 2018. The report provided a number of important assessments and recommendations on how Norway should be able to reduce the risks associated with severe climate change. The revised National Budget for 2019 revealed that the government would provide an overview of measures to reduce the climate risk in the announced Perspective Communication. In the Granavolden platform: ‘Evaluate and follow up the recommendations and assessments of the Climate Risk Committee and require companies to disclose climate risk in their development plans.’;» Climate risk is a major and serious issue for Norway that should be given greater attention and a more thorough debate than only as part of the perspective communication. The Climate Risk Committee should therefore be followed up with its own monitoring report. That is why, together with the Centre Party, we have today made proposals for a separate notification based on the Climate Risk Committee's report during 2020. I understand that some people in this room are having a bit of a hard time -- sorry, President, in advance if it's a non-parliamentary expression. But the representative Halleland, who outside this hall is comrade Halleland, asks how it might be that SV 1) goes against the development of Johan Castberg and 2) proposes to land it. That's precisely because we haven't reached through with our primary position. We see that the Stortinget has voted in favour of this expansion. Then we'll try to make the best of the situation for those who have to take the greatest consequences of this expansion. Something more difficult than that is not, but it's obviously difficult enough for some, and it's not just the Halleland representative, who's outside this hall, but it's obviously more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e723	Hardly for that, we can all have in between, so the president lets it pass. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e728	I shall not withdraw the debate unnecessarily; this is more of a explanation of vote. There has been a lot of talk about birthdays and wishes about gifts. The working party is more on the line to create and share. But a little bit in that spirit I just want to say that the Workers' Party supports proposal No. So 9 solve the proposal from SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e735	To elaborate on Johan Castberg: We in the government parties and the Progress Party, which was also part of the government, agreed with the Workers' Party that a solution should be found for Johan Castberg and landing. We were quite clear on that in the comments. At the same time, our parties wrote together in these comments that when the decision-making basis was not good enough when we dealt with the PUD, BSOI had to be allowed to continue working on the decision-making basis. And we wrote together in the notes that you had to try to find a profitable solution. Then, after the company has taken the decision, one can argue – and we have also done so from the government parties – that the company in this case may have been mistaken, precisely because this also goes on the legitimacy of the entire industry, namely that it is involved in creating jobs throughout the country. We've agreed to that. But we said in the comments and agreed that one should seek a profitable solution, and that was what one could not do. None of the proposals that lie here solves the challenge that we agreed on when we dealt with the PUD. That means that the proposals that now had to be promoted for this to happen are proposals that no parties other than the Socialist Left have ever had to deal with. For example, it would. to cast the Board of Governors of Equinor. No one's proposing. Another option is to bring about a legislative change that would have a major impact on the entire maritime sector and marine industries. No one's proposing. No one has really come up with a solution to this in the light of the consensus we had when we dealt with the PUD, that we should try to find a viable solution. I hear the argument from the representative Lars Haltbrecken, but the point is not that we others have a hard time doing it. The point is that the representative follows the logic of the Socialist Left Party, which is that you can always get in both bag and bag, that you can vote against something and for something at the same time. I don't think that's a good idea. If the representative had really been involved in jobs throughout the country, the option to the Socialist Left must have been to propose something that would contribute to value creation across Norway. But there is also the Socialist Left, because they do not really have an industrial policy, do they?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e746	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e762	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e771	There's a lot up and down here today – I haven't moved that much in several weeks. Let me first thank you for the good cooperation in the committee, which we have on this matter and really all the other matters we are dealing with. Marine wind has the potential to become a new renewable industrial venture for Norway, and therefore we need good framework conditions and a predictable policy. Then we can get new business opportunities for Norwegian industry and business, while, because of our expertise from petroleum industry, shipping, shipbuilding and renewable energy, we have great opportunities to become leaders. There is today a rapid development of marine wind technology. The costs are going down. The government has proposed the opening of two areas for offshore wind power generation, and a third area input has been requested. In addition, the government is working to complete regulations regulating the concession process. There are now several good instruments that support companies that want to invest in sea wind. Direct investment in the project or other financial support, as well as research and development activities, can be provided today. Enova has already committed 2.3 billion. kr to the Hywind Tampen project. In the future, we need a policy that contributes to increased private investment in marine wind. A policy based only on tax-funded developments, as the proposer and other parties may not consciously wish, is not sustainable. Then I register that a strategy is called for. Let me remind you that a strategy has been put forward that addresses a number of issues: land use, costs, the innovation chain, support schemes, legislation, energy solutions for petroleum activities and the opening of areas under the Marine Energy Act, including exemptions for the supply of petroleum activities. So some of the other suggestions that are in this setting. Test areas at sea already exist. We are positive that more testing is being done on the base, and of course this must be done in good dialogue with the marine industries. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has signed an agreement on energy cooperation between the countries around the North Sea, where offshore wind power is the main focus of cooperation. We have great ambitions for the development of sea wind on a Norwegian base, but it is not certain that concrete measures on the crown or the gigawatt, which is suggested here about where we are going in 2030, are the best way to go. 3 GW is proposed by 2030. By comparison, Hywind Tampen is up in 8 MW. It does not require anything to formulate such objectives. That's the way that's complicated, and none of these proposals really help us achieve such goals. We've shown that we're willing to help companies develop. We run a strategy, and we work for a policy that makes Norwegian pedestal attractive to marine wind investments. It is important for conversion, for the Norwegian supplier industry, and the most important thing we can do is to facilitate a profitable production on our base.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e794	The Labour Party believes that marine wind has the potential to give us greater access to renewable energy – which both we and the world need more – but not least to further develop our supplier industry, which is currently struggling more than ever, and to create profitable jobs and export revenues, of which we also need more. Norway has a unique advantage. We are world leaders in offshore and shipping and have a competitive shipbuilding industry. We have the world's best ocean wind resources for floating sea winds. Bottom-solid sea winds have developed rapidly, and there is an urgent need to put in place an offensive and concrete strategy for a Norwegian industrial effort on sea winds, especially on a liquid basis. That's what we did when we were able to build up the petroleum industry, and later aquaculture. What distinguishes the other countries around the North Sea that have succeeded with sea wind is that they have all set specific targets for how much sea wind they plan for: Sweden 2 GW, Denmark 3.7, Germany 25, the Netherlands 9, Belgium 4 and the United Kingdom 30. Norway is actually the only country without a concrete goal. The working party therefore proposes 3 GW by 2030 and a market share target of 10 pst. and a turnover of 50 billion. kr by 2030. It is appropriate to facilitate the electrification of the cap as far as possible with sea wind. We need more testing centres and offshore energy parks, such as The ZEEDS project, in which the maritime industry and the supplier industry have merged to look at the possibility of creating trans-shipment and filling stations offshore, among others. for ammonia. It is necessary to look at ownership, new business models for both energy use and sales, and to develop the entire value chain up to the market for the whole supply industry as well. The Labour Party does not support the proposal for a separate fund. We believe it is better to strengthen Nysnø. However, it is important to facilitate the participation of a variety of actors in industrial development, technology neutrality and the demand for Norwegian content. It was actually not done when Equinor received Enova support for Tampen. It is urgent to complete the legislative and regulatory framework, including the subsidy regime, and we are therefore asking the government to assess whether the current petroleum tax regime can also apply to liquid sea winds. We lack drivers to produce more green power. We do not get a competitive marine wind industry by leaving it to the market alone, and therefore the Workers' Party believes there is a need for an active and targeted industrial policy. All of our main export industries are sea-based, and we need to develop a management system where all the different industries are maintained, including the environment. The Labour Party does not support the solutions proposed by the Red and MDG. We believe they are incorporated into the proposals that are, and in the comments. With that, I am promoting the proposals behind the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e817	Then the representative Ruth Grung has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e822	Liquid sea breezes are one of several areas in which Norway makes its mark and offer a wide range of opportunities for Norwegian businesses. Norway may build on unique experience from the oil and gas industries and from both the maritime and renewable sectors. The industry currently has a leading role in this area as well, and we see that Norwegian companies are currently winning more competitions abroad. The Progress Party is very positive in this development and will help us to be the leaders in this area in the future. It is important to be able to have arrangements in today’s system that can contribute to the realisation of experimental and demonstration projects. It is important to have support schemes which, through Enova, Innovation Norway and the Research Council, can contribute to the implementation of projects. Among other things, Enova Equinor supports the realization of Hywind Tampen. Current areas for the establishment of sea winds have been at the hearing, and we have great expectations that in the near future the government will provide clarifications on how to use these areas. The market for liquid sea wind will mainly be abroad, where prices are higher and opportunities on land are smaller. At the same time, the power surplus in the Nordic region shows that offshore wind power is not part of the Norwegian power supply. There are technological developments that need to be addressed in order to allow Norwegian companies to develop their skills through activities on a Norwegian base, not necessarily power generation – except, of course, where it can be used locally or exported out of the country, where the willingness to pay is significantly higher. The Progress Party does not support the proposal for a separate investment fund for sea wind, but would also like to look at the possibility of creating a tax regime that can favour investment on a Norwegian base. Especially in the situation in which the industry and the shipbuilding industry have come into being, we will be positive about the possibility of stimulating increased activity also in the case of marine wind projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e837	As surely as there is pollen in the air, we are debating sea winds in this Chamber. It is later to be widely agreed that sea wind is an opportunity to increase power generation in a sustainable way — and that liquid sea wind has the potential to become a new Norwegian food and export adventure. Unfortunately, it seems – as in recent years – that consensus stops there. The representative Heggelund said that the way to this adventure is complicated. But it would have been an advantage if you were actually willing to build the road, because the government will not use active instruments that can help raise a stake, thus helping to establish an industry in this area. This doesn't come of itself. It requires predictability, it requires financial instruments, and it requires clear objectives to reach. These are also the feedback we get when we talk to the actors in the industry. Give us something to work for, is categorized, give us clear goals, give us clear ambitions. A new and expanded strategy can contribute to this by looking at developments in a long-term perspective and also assessing other considerations, such as: to other industries and environmental interests. A concrete target for Norwegian sea wind production within a time frame will also provide industry with a clear indication of Norway’s objectives and our expectations, and contribute to the predictability of demand by industry. In addition, a funding model is needed to ensure the development and realisation of projects. We're not there today, unfortunately. Today, Enova is the largest toolbox we have for environmental investment, but this is not enough if we are to succeed with sea wind. The toolbox must then be expanded strongly. In fact, the cost of this type of wind power is still much higher than for example. fixed sea wind and also twin bottom sea wind. Both parts are being built on a large scale around the continent and in our neighbouring countries. Therefore, it is essential that we manage to reduce costs through an efficient value chain and reduced installation and service costs for liquid sea winds. That's where our opportunity lies. This could be a strategy with clear instruments such as: production aid, loan guarantees and clear objectives contribute to this. We know that there have been important drivers in other countries. We don't have to travel any further than over the base, to Scotland. That is how politics works and often has to be a door opener before the market, which the government parties often talk about hotly, works. I would also like to give an explanation of vote. The centre party will support proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, SV and the Green Party, on the investigation into whether liquid sea wind should be subject to equivalent tax legislation to that of the petroleum industry through tax legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e854	A lot of wind has blown at the sea since this proposal from Red was promoted in Stortinget. In one of the crisis packages in the event of the covid-19 outbreak, SV had an impact on the return of the government, at the latest in the state budget for 2021, with an investigation into possible financing models that could ensure the development and realisation of projects within liquid sea winds. It was an incredibly important decision to make progress in the operation of floating sea winds on the Norwegian side. It will also mean a lot for the Norwegian supplier industry, which is now struggling. Norway may take an international lead here. Sea wind will also be important to cut greenhouse gas emissions both in Norway and in other countries. We can make a major contribution to our neighbouring countries being supplied with clean and renewable energy instead of dirty energy with large emissions. Therefore, a bet on sea wind in Norway should not only be reserved for the Norwegian market, but also the possibility of exporting parts of this force. In this regard, I would like to ask Red a question about the one-solution proposal they have, where they write in the point of investment funds that one of the prerequisites is that this investment contributes to Norwegian emission reductions. Does this mean excluding an export of offshore liquid sea wind, power from it, to other countries? At the same time, I must also warn those who believe that liquid sea winds are without environmental consequences, and that it's only too expensive. Unfortunately, there is no energy production without environmental consequences. If we do not take into account the nature of our marine areas, the consequences can be serious for seabirds and for fisheries. But if we take into account, plan this in a proper way, there can be a commitment that gives emission reductions, jobs and income to the country. At the end of the day, I just want to promote a change to proposal No. 1 from the Labour Party, SV and the Environment Party of the Greens. That proposal shall be replaced by the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Norwegian base has a capacity of 3 GW sea wind by 2030.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e870	Then it's registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e875	This is about investments in liquid sea wind, as a great Norwegian opportunity to both cut emissions and build new jobs and provide us with export revenues. That's a solid possibility. The North Sea Basin is an adventure for Norway. It has given us great wealth already, and it can continue to give us both jobs, incomes and climate. Norway has to make a choice. Denmark has done a lot about wind technology and bottom-resistant sea winds. This course is about to take place, although Norway also agrees. In the case of floating sea winds, Norway has a unique opportunity and also a unique position, but we also need to discuss what this technology will be used for in the North Sea basin. Is it primarily to produce electricity? Are there other energy carriers that are interesting, e.g. hydrogen? Ammonia also sails up like a green energy carrier. It's hard to make the choice now, to suggest it. Norway is already making the investments related to Hywind Tampen, where Enova has contributed 2.3 billion. kr. We regulate areas of sea wind – Utsira Nord is in this way very interesting, also in view of the discussion we are going to have later today, the debate on NorthConnect. It is important to stick to competition for technology, because much is happening in this area, and it has not been given that Equinor is developing the only technology for the liquid sea wind of the future. We have Metcenters in the West, which are also important to test out and test out new technology. Many leading companies in the world are actually coming to Norway, so there's no doubt about our position and what we're investing in to develop and contribute to this becoming a big industry. So to the Red's suggestion, which, looking up against other suggestions that Red comes with, is a sort of red smoke grenade over the Tribune. I have to ask the question: where is the flow going, that Red will produce? Is there going to be cables to the rest of the world that Red doesn't want? Are oil and gas installations to be supplied on the base, against which Red is opposed? Or do you need cables to land and wash out Norwegian hydropower? These are the dilemmas one's in, and it's hard to see what Red really wants. Why should we use so much government money when one does not accept that there is renewable energy from which we should already draw income, through cables? We have to get some answers to this from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e888	The world must halve emissions over the next ten years if we are to avoid the worst climate change. If we are to achieve this, we need to replace fossil energy with renewable energy, and we need to have much better power exchanges than we have today. The proposals we are discussing now will contribute to a shift in the pace of the bet on floating sea winds. But I would like to stress that sea wind also includes bottom-up installations. The difference between good and bad climate policies is the pace. If we are to resolve the climate crisis, we must also take radical action in the short term, and in the short term, the potential for bottom-resistant sea winds is greatest, since it is a mature technology that can be profitable to expand right now. The United Kingdom will expand 30 GW sea wind by 2030. It's ten times more than we vote on today. For the time being, in Norwegian policy, only the Greens have ambitions at the same level. The reason why the United Kingdom can have such ambitions is that it rates on bottom-solid sea winds in addition to liquid ones. A week ago, Aker’s group director, Øyvind Eriksen, concluded that there will never be a better time to bet on sea wind than now. He also asks for a Norwegian bet on bottom-up installations. Norway is late, but there are still opportunities to take market shares in this technology. A major effort on sea wind requires a good exchange of power between neighbouring countries. That is why I find it strange that several of the parties that today call for a shift in the pace of Norwegian sea wind policy, refuse to build NorthConnect – but we will return to that in the next case. Marine wind, if sufficient environmental considerations are taken into account in the development, can become Norway’s main contribution to the conversion of Europe’s energy supply. Red's proposal is a good start, but I would like to stress that we do not want to use the oil fund to invest in Norway, and we also note that the oil fund is not mentioned in the proposal itself. The next step must be to raise ambitions further and to set in motion a large bet on bottom-solid sea winds in addition to liquid ones. We are therefore proposing two solutions: we are asking the government to put forward a strategy for bottom-sea wind, and we are asking the government to set in motion the planning of two full-scale offshore wind turbines, a floating and a bottom-solid. I hope and believe that more parties will get their eyes up because sea wind is something more than a future industrial venture. Marine wind is a real opportunity to expand renewable energy and cut emissions here and now. With this I address the suggestions I refer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e910	The representative, Hulda Holtvedt, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e915	The corona pandemic has led to an economic crash landing also for the oil industry. Some may be cheering for it in view of the climate, but what is happening now is a major problem for the future environmental effort here to land, because today's industrial workers are the most important thing we have when we are going to build a new green industry for the future. That is why we need to secure the supply industry through crisis packages, and at the same time we need to give up the work with the environmentally friendly Norwegian industry. A place to start is through a state investment in a Norwegian industrial investment in liquid sea wind – not to supply Norway with more power, but to make Norway the world leader in developing new technology and in creating Norwegian jobs in industrial production. Rather than sending ever more force out of the country as a commodity, we would rather export the technology itself and the platforms to countries that want liquid sea winds. As a result, red will not expand the most possible sea wind in Norway. We want what is necessary to have a development area for the Norwegian supplier industry, and then we can contribute to the basic conversion of the energy system globally. At the same time, we must take account of fisheries and natural diversity when developing this in Norway. At present, huge funds are being used on the necessary measures to combat the consequences of the coronary apathy. It shows that we can if we want to. There is nothing political that prevents us from using any of the oil assets of a state investment fund for environmentally friendly industry. The action rule rules that we should not use more than 3 pst. the capital of the fund to cover deficits in the State budget, but restrictions on investing parts of the oil wealth in climate solutions are, on the other hand, a self-imposed coercion. The size has now asked the government to come back with possible funding models to ensure the development of projects in the floating sea wind sector. We have to do this even faster than in the budget for next year, we believe. Several measures have been notified to the supplier industry in relation to the coronary apathy and the fall in oil price and demand. Here, the development, production and export of liquid sea wind technologies and industrial products must be included, and it is on this basis that I take up Red's proposal to build a Norwegian sea wind industry for the export of technology, chassis and platforms to those countries that want to convert from fossil energy to environmentally friendly, forward-looking and renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e930	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e935	I am very pleased that we now have the opportunity to debate what liquid wind power can mean for Norway. We have a good starting point, and the government is facilitating the necessary regulation and opening of areas. This will provide a good basis for the actors to further develop this industry. We see rapid technology development and lower costs for marine wind technologies. That is why the Ministry of Oil and Energy has proposed the opening of two sea wind areas, as well as the request for a third area. We are going to put in place rules of play with a proper balance between facilitating the exploitation of this climate-friendly energy for the benefit of industry and shipping, while at the same time ensuring the consideration of other industries, such as industry and shipping. fisheries. I look with goodwill at the intentions of the proposer. It is important that Norwegian companies continue to engage in this market, and it is positive that we get greater expansion in Norwegian sea areas. Norwegian companies already export billions of dollars to this industry and win contracts in other countries. At the same time Equinor is the world leader in the development of liquid wind power. Recently, I approved the plans for Hywind Tampen, the world's largest floating wind power plant, which will make an important contribution to furthering this technology towards commercial profitability. It shows that the government is concerned with the possibilities for liquid sea wind to be industrially applied to the country and for the production of climate-friendly electricity. The expansion represents investments for nearly 5 billion. kr. Through Enova, the government has given 2.3 billion. kr i support of the project. This project may be a small step in the global green transition, but it is a very big step for the Norwegian marine wind industry. The Government also has additional instruments to support research and development and export support. The latter is very relevant in a market that will largely be abroad. Although there are now special times, I will insist that power generation has to a large extent without subsidies. It also applies to liquid sea winds. Hywind Tampen gives us the opportunity to mature this technology significantly and bring it closer to commercial profitability. Norway has a power market that works well, and I do not think it is appropriate to set numerical targets for the development of individual technologies. Marine wind power offers exciting opportunities for Norway. We will continue to facilitate this development and ensure that our business life participates in what can become a Norwegian sea wind adventure. And then I have to point out in the end that it is strange to hear parties that are incredibly opposed to foreignables and power exchanges with other countries for reasons of power prices and Norwegian industry, at the same time order that we expand much more power in our seas. I have to ask myself, where have they thought that we should use that force? How are we going to get it to a market if they're not for the cable that's going to get it to yours?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e954	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e959	In these corona times, we have participated in various seminars on Teams and other platforms, and a lot of people have been talking about sea wind, which is an exciting field. What's left of all of them is how important it is to set a measurement. Other places in the world where it has been implemented have been investigated, and when I look at the map, Norway is the only country around the North Sea that has not set a concrete target that shows a direction, a level of ambition. The question is: why not set a concrete measure and show and use the experience you have from other countries, so that we, as we were before, at least have visions? This area needs to be clear to those degrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e966	Many other countries are in a situation where they have a great need to increase their renewable power generation in order to phase out fossil energy use. Norway, on the other hand, has a surplus of power; we do not immediately need new renewable energy to get to everything we want – whether it is a new industry or to make sure that the electricity price does not get too high etc. We have a lot of power available in this country. If you're going to set a measurement, I'm going to assume that it's because you need to get somewhere, because you need that power. As I said, we do not have it in Norway today. But that we're going to help make this possible as an industry, I'm very much in favour. I think Hywind Tampen is a giant critter in that direction. When we also gradually open more areas in order to expand sea winds, it will show whether there is commercial interest in doing so in Norway. But we need to think clearly about what we want with the force, where we might send it, if we're going to use it here, and what kind of effects it will have on our own power system if we, for example, are going to have. power from large-scale sea-window construction into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e973	What I discovered after I entered this committee is that we actually lack power in large parts of our country. This applies, inter alia, to: Haugaland – who's in my home state. The Bergens area lacks power, which means that we do not realize much of the industrialization – and also having access to power that can be converted into ammonia etc., which I pointed to in my post. It is quite right that we have few incentives to twist the supplier industry and other industries towards sea wind. Therefore, it is important to set a clear target, in addition to the proposal on framework conditions and legislation and everything else we have had in the past. We have also made a proposal to look at the possibility of introducing a petroleum tax regime linked to liquid sea winds. Will the Council consider considering whether it is possible as an incentive to increase investment in that direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e980	To the first part of the question, it is a continuous effort to ensure that the power needed around the country is available. It's about good network deployment, that we have an efficient power grid, that we get an enhanced network where we need it, so you can connect if you need it, for example. because new industries are to be realized. So it's very important, and then that's what you have to focus on. So it's like that in Norway today it's expanding more hydropower, building more wind power on land – although there's a very heated debate a day – much cheaper. It's much cheaper power than the power of e.g. sea wind whose objective is to obtain power. So we have to have many thoughts in our head at once. Hywind Tampen is a project that is just about to supply an offshore installation with renewable energy, therefore it is a demonstration project that also goes under that regime. I am not negative to the fact that we can have several projects that supply the socket with power in order for us to be able to electrify more, but I think we have to start by maybe opening these areas in order to apply for a concession to build there, and then we'll see where we end up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e989	The question concerned a petroleum tax regime for sea wind in general – whether we can have it as a framework for the future, whether there is a possibility of looking at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e994	Now we have just approved the expansion plans for Hywind Tampen. That project must be realised. There are many ways to electrify the socket, including: also cable from land. I think the companies will also be concerned with the costs of being able to achieve the ambitious climate goals we have. I believe that these initiatives must also come from the industry itself. I believe that the order we have to do this in now is to build Hywind Tampen, we have to open up areas, and then we have to continue step by step also within that industry, which we have done with great luck in other industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1000	The size has now required the government to come back, at the latest in the budget for next year, with an investigation and funding model to secure projects within the floating sea wind. That's good, but that's not enough. Responses to the supply industry are urgent due to the fall in oil prices and demand, and not least the effects of the coronary apathy. If we are to take the leadership trough internationally that we can take in the floating sea wind industry, it must be done quickly. The size, other than the MDG, has asked the government to take action in the supplier industry before the revised national budget. Red therefore proposes today that the government include the development, production and export of liquid sea wind technologies and industrial products in these measures. Can the State Council say anything about its assessment of that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1005	Of course, we must follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget and also consider this with financing models for sea wind. But I still think it's something that still fails in the logic around this proposal from Red, because when I heard the representative and his posts instead, he pointed out that no, we won't necessarily build it in Norway, we have to build it elsewhere. This is the full opportunity for Norwegian industry to do so today, and so do they. We have instruments that support that precisely on the part of the authorities so that they can participate in those markets, and that is already happening. There is also one thing that I think the representative might forget, when it comes to building a domestic market for this and an industry in Norway that can serve abroad with technology. If we think about the oil and gas industry, Norway was not the world leader in exporting technology to oil and gas until we started doing it ourselves. It is through the construction of our industry here in Norway that we have also been able to export technology in oil and gas. So the domestic market is important, if that is the big goal, and I think that is missing from the representative's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1012	This was a slightly confusing response from the Council of State. We push this to get more speed on the bet on floating sea winds and demand the government will follow this up before the revised national budget or not. There's a little vague answer to that. Then there's some statement that there's something jumping in the logic of what we're suggesting. What we want, just in order to be world leaders and create up to 128 000 jobs by 2030, is a greater investment in floating sea winds in Norway, and not least financial muscles for this and home development venues in order to take that role internationally. Our aim is to ensure that countries that need more renewable energy than Norway is able to replace oil, gas and coal with energy from liquid sea wind, if then there are countries that can export technology and not least products – chassis, platforms – to ensure that kind of expansion. That is the purpose of our proposal. That's why we brought it. I wonder if the state council understands the logic of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1017	Yes, I am trying for the best of my ability to understand, but I still believe that there is something that is not entirely related to the logic of this. Now the representative says that yes, we need it in Norway. Okay, I'm interpreting that as if you also want to expand offshore sea winds in Norway. Then I believe that the representative also has to respond to whether he believes that this force should be transported to Norway, enter our power system here, i.e. much more expensive than the other force we have, which will in turn lead to pressure on power prices, for example, pressure on the entire power system, which I believe the representative is opposed to, for example. the next debate we're going to have. This has been an important argument against, for example: NorthConnect. It's an opportunity, or you have to have a cable from these areas on our socket to other countries that need the power. If so, does the representative wish to do so? It would have been nice with an answer to that. I think you have to decide a little bit about what is the purpose of this, unless you have a plan to build offshore sea wind on a Norwegian base, but you have to produce without being connected to anything. That is the ultimate consequence of what the representative is proposing, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1024	Some of the liquid sea wind power may be used for electrification of the cap. It's quite natural that you do it, rather than do it from land. Some of it can be used to achieve a full-scale electricalisation of Norway in the longer term. Then some of the energy can come from liquid sea wind. But the main point is that the Norwegian supplier industry needs more bones to stand on in the future, even when the oil and gas industry is going to take less place in the economy, as we all know is going to happen in the coming decades. We have good conditions to be world leaders in this market if we put enough money on it now. Then we can ensure that we can export technology, export what is needed by platforms, chassis, to countries that do not have the hydropower we have, but that are today based on oil, gas, coal or other polluting energy sources – if we get a bet. That is what is meant by our proposal: not more power exports from Norway, but export of the technology and of the products needed to establish liquid sea winds in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1031	I fully agree with the representative that we need more legs to stand on in Norway. I also fully agree that there are great opportunities that lie within offshore sea winds. I also believe that the government is facilitating it, just through the things I was having in my article earlier. But I still believe that there must be a purpose in what you do, and I still feel that the representative does not respond. Now you open up to export more power, you can take something in to land, maybe not, and then you say you can export chassis and platforms. But then you're back to what I've been talking about before: why has Norway become the world leader in this field of oil and gas? We did that after we started to develop our own base. That's where we started. That's why we're so good at this today. That's why we have world-leading technology, because it's a competence built up here, because we've had something to deliver to. There is nothing that prevents the industry today from being able to help build offshore sea winds in other countries, but in order to be really good we also have to have it here. Then we must also be willing to accept what comes at the other end, just a power generation, and I do not feel that the representative is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1036	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1043	I just have a little explanation of vote. SV will support the proposals No. 5 and 6 from Red. We share part of the intentions behind proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox As I mentioned in my article, in the one crisis package we have been given the impression that the government will come back to the Stortinget with a proposal for a financing plan that will lead to the launch of a bet on floating sea winds. If the answer to that is a government investment fund or not, we don't know today. We will therefore vote against proposal No. 4, but share more of the intentions behind it. It is also extremely unclear to me whether point (e) of proposal No. 4 allows some of this power to be exported to other countries in order to phase out fossil energy. You don't get profitability and bet on offshore floating sea winds without someone willing to pay for that power. Then you'll be able to export some of it, of course, in addition to electrification of the oil and gas installations. But getting someone to pay for the power will be absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1055	I take the floor just for an explanation of the proposal. What we now have big plans for in our country is to use very much of the energy from land, which is renewable, and lead it out to the platforms, and in that way get to electrify our base, that is. the construction of cables which will reduce emissions, point emissions, on certain platforms. We think like that: if you build up liquid sea winds in connection with and near the platforms, it is possible to electrify them partly by means of liquid sea winds. When there are cables that have been installed and are added to the oil installations, it is possible to imagine that you can send the current in the other direction. Thus, if there is surplus production from liquid sea wind, it is possible to send some of the power back to land – if it is developed, as planned. When it comes to exports, as I mentioned in the lines with the Council of State, it is our main purpose to ensure the export of technology, of the installations, to those countries that want to implement changes in their energy systems, by using liquid sea winds. There are favourable conditions for this in quite a number of countries, but they need the technology and components to get it done, and Norway can become an important supplier for the future if we get to the necessary bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1064	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1069	Earlier today, I have accused some of my fellow colleagues of perhaps having a bit of a hard time for that. Now it might be I who have a little bit of a hard time for it, but I didn't get much wiser by the last article. I understand that you can use liquid sea wind to electrify the base. We're going to do that. I also understand that you can then connect on the Internet to mainland Norway and send the power back. And we're going to be able to do that. What I still don't understand is if you also open up some of the power to other countries to contribute to emissions cuts there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1075	The President would like to stress that the President's suggestion that everyone may have a hard time doing so is at hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1080	The representative of Moxnes has partly responded to some of the challenges I gave, in the change of lines with the Council of State. I hear a lot of yes, thank you – it's going to be Ole Brum for everything, really. In the next debate on NorthConnect, one of the reasons why we're not going to take the chance is that it can lead to a one-tower or two in increased power prices. However, the representative, Mr Moxnes, is not concerned about the efforts of taxpayers in this respect. If he wants to spend so much money on supporting the development of floating sea winds in the North Sea to create a supplier industry, it will be subsidized solid. It must be more profitable to look for other models if that is the purpose. There are plenty of opportunities to electrify the North Sea. We're facing a massive electrification. Floating sea winds can be part of it, but there are also many other possibilities. Scotland actually helps us with some of that, and the wind can blow both ways from a windmill in the North Sea, or it can come from Scotland, for that matter. We come up with this in the next debate, but a bit of the challenge here is that, among other things. The Haugaland, which Mr Grung's representative was in, has a great need for power. There's a lot of ways to do this. We need to clarify where that power is going to come from, but to build it around the North Sea and back in by subsidising the floating sea wind does not sound like a particularly profitable proposal for taxpayers. We are also discussing a link between how we use the tax input and what is going to go over, for example. the electricity price. That debate is continuing. For the time being, I do not see that the Rødt proposal in the debate is anything other than what I said in my previous post. This becomes a smoke grenade that misplaces the Tribune for the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1091	The representative Bears Moxnes has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1096	At least at the beginning of the article to Kjeseth it seemed that no one has a hard time for it, but the conclusion might have been a little bit different. I have now explained the purpose of our proposal in many rounds. Our view of power exports comes back to us in depth in the next round, but we're not basically against any power exports or to hijack any established cable to the rest of the world. We are against new cables, which will increase the electricity price in Norway, which we have been documented – round after round after round – from NVE and other expert environments. We will, of course, take this debate a little more thoroughly in just a short time. However, the purpose of investing in and building up the Norwegian marine wind industry is to export industrial products to those countries in the world that need more renewable energy. Norway is not there to such an extent at present, but other countries are desperately in need of access to clean energy to replace fossil energy sources. That is the purpose of what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1103	The president just wants to show that the next case has not yet begun.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1108	The President has a timely observation that the next case has not begun, but there is an obvious link between this case and the next one, because it has been difficult to get hold of whether Red believes that in principle one should limit to exports, even from sea wind in the North Sea. I want to say I'm dividing 100 pst. The Moxnes representative’s approach to technological development — it is to provide a basis for a new industry, and it can export technology. It has also been the Labour Party's view from the first day, as we were already in favour of a similar proposal to build a Norwegian sea wind industry last year. But to create a home market, you also have to have a market – it is very difficult to produce products that nobody wants. I also agree that the socket is an important trigger. But I think maybe we got a clarification from the representative of Moxnes now that he was not in principle against it being exported, but it had to do with the effect on the price in Norway. It must mean that he is actually for exports that are not negative for the price in Norway, and it is interesting to take him to the next debate. In this case, it is a useful clarification: that it is the export that leads to an increase in price in Norway, it is against – not every export of force if, for example, it is. has the opposite effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1117	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has spoken the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1122	One minute, yes, it's short. We have now received some clarifications from the representative of Moxnes. Building up a supplier industry here, which can export, we all agree on that, so the question is, how are we going to develop it? At this point, there's a question of whether we're going to spend money in addition to the instrument we already have. We're using Enova, we're using Nysnø, we're building test centers and we're also increasing it with export possibilities. This will be interesting in the further debate. Interestingly, in principle, Red is not anti-export. It's an important part of creating jobs. This is when both EEA agreements and others come into the picture. This is going to be an exciting continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1131	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1147	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1154	Once again, I would like to start by thanking you for a very good cooperation – as usual – in the Committee on this major and important matter. I would like to extend special thanks to the proposers – the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party – who in each way have given us the opportunity to re-examine a matter which is perhaps the matter that has dealt with the Committee most in the years we have been sitting together, namely the question of power and power exchange with the rest of the world, including the issue of NorthConnect. I would like to remind you that this case has roots, long roots back to a long period of construction of a first Nordic and then, after every North European power cooperation, where Norway has been in the forefront, not least with a large number of very good oil and energy ministers from the Central Party, who have been the very bearer of expanding this power exchange with the nearby rest of the world. Then we had a very important discussion in this government period, in 2016, which led to a conversion of the Energy Act in the direction of opening up to private cables and cables built by others other than Statnett, a change that we from the Workers' Party and the rest of the opposition were strongly opposed. And then we had the extensive discussion in March 2018 with the conclusions that followed, both in a broad political agreement with the then government parties, the Labour Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens and in the related decisions that were then taken in the Stortinget. A number of very important principles were established for Norwegian power policy and the relationship to power exchange with the rest of the world. It shall be crystal clear that the main purpose of power generation in Norway is to provide reasonable, sufficient and clean power to Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers. The question of cables needs to be seen in the light of this. Non-governmental organisations that increase their ability to meet these challenges, such as: The cables to Denmark do, are positive. Cables that have the opposite advantage will be negative. The second thing we fixed at the time was that it's important that cables are owned and operated by Statnett. This was a view which had been a minority view but which, in the final agreement on the third energy market package of the EU, was established as an important principle. I can see, and am happy to say so, that the government has adhered to the agreement we entered into. There were many who were in the process unsure whether this agreement would hold – I did not believe this, but I admit that many asked questions about it. It has now been clarified, and I will acknowledge that Council of State Bru made it clear that this application for a cable called NorthConnect, from Swedish Vattenfall and a number of Norwegian municipalities, would not be granted a concession until they had received: [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1173	The President will stress that speaking time is not indicative, it is absolute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1178	Norway is a force nation. With our strong renewable energy production, our power sector is unique in the world. We have been able to combine the world's most beautiful nature and its preservation with the exploitation of the values that lie in nature. It actually serves us to stop and reflect on what our ancestors have done – things that we enjoy today – and we should reflect on how we can follow their example when it comes to where we are going. That is why, in the comments on this case, we are going through part of what Norway has done in the power sector. It's important history. The exchange of power has served Norway well. It has contributed to more stable electricity prices for Norwegian consumers and for industry, and it has contributed to a strong renewable industry in Norway. Norway has unique opportunities here. We're sitting on approx. half of Europe's renewable energy. In 2018, the Stortinget agreed that we should have a renewable cooperation with Europe, and we did so both because we see that Norwegian power can help phase out fossil energy, and because it serves Norwegian interests. The debate on NorthConnect has been a long time, and it arouses strong commitment. That's good in a democracy. However, some claims cannot be contradicted. It has been estimated that NorthConnect will contribute to emissions cuts, while this is a climate action on which money will be made. That's how it differs from a lot of other things that are proposed in the climate debate. This project is socio-economically profitable and will be valuable for many municipalities. It is repeated that NorthConnect will contribute to higher power prices. To that, there are two things to say: with the surplus of power that Norway and Sweden will have in the future, NorthConnect will contribute to the dampening of a price drop. The second is that there are many things that can contribute to higher power prices. I'm e.g. for more industry in Norway. It can contribute to higher power prices, but then we have the means to handle it, through e.g. reduced electricity charge or CO 2 compensation. The Government has announced that it will not take a decision on concession to NorthConnect since it has not been able to gain experience with the two cables currently under construction, in line with the agreement made in connection with the treatment of the third energy market package. Then we come to the final point in this round: I want to thank Red and the Center Party for this opportunity again to show that we are a serious partner. When we enter into an agreement, we are on the agreement we have entered into. There's nothing new under the sun.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1200	The case of NorthConnect has, as many have already been in the past, a long story. She is, however, quite straightforward when we present this proposal: what kind of interest should we focus on in a situation where we have both good capacity on expanded exchange cables and several under construction, and where the cable is isolated to help increase the electricity price for Norwegian businesses and Norwegian consumers? That's the starting point for us to make one of the three proposals that, in sum, form the basis for this setting. Based on the situation we have in the Norwegian power market, there is no doubt that we have benefited from the development of exchange cables to other countries. It has in total contributed to both a stable power market and a power market that provides room for excess exports and imports if necessary. It has given a flatter power price than we would otherwise have, and it has given us the possibility to have more stable power prices for the Norwegian industry. So the question is, why manage NorthConnect differently, with what's the starting point? The answer to this is simple: that cable did not contribute to strengthening the energy supply to Norway and did not leverage beyond what we already have on cables to reduce the risk in the Norwegian power grid of significant importance – but the cable contributed to an increase in the electricity price for private consumers and for Norwegian business. As a result, it is good that the government has now chosen to suspend the final concession treatment of this case. But we were to wish that the Storting went further and said clearly no to the construction of NorthConnect, and we thought that it was also possible to bring the Workers' Party with it. In the political debate outside the Storting, everything has indicated that the Labour Party was able to land on a proposal that refused to build NorthConnect, instead of diluting after the government on a proposal that in practice is about postponing it. Today shows that nothing has happened. That's what we thought to be a pity, because today, the Stortinget could once and for all lay the framework for managing the application from NorthConnect by giving clear leadership for a final rejection – because it doesn't seem like Norwegian consumers or Norwegian businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1211	The representative probably has some suggestions he should address.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1216	That's quite correct, but I was so afraid the president would start to club that I ended up early! I welcome the suggestions made by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1221	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1226	To put it simply, the Norwegian mainland industry is built on access to cheap power. 100 years of industrial history has now also become a competitive advantage, as Norwegian power is renewable and climate friendly. The power market has naturally changed over time. However, there has always been a clear political premise that Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers should be taken into account. The NorthConnect international cable breaks with that premise, if it's built. Another important premise has been that foreign connections have been built, owned and operated by the public. So it was until the Right and the Advance Party came in the government offices. Then the Energy Act was changed and opened up for private operators to build, own and operate foreign tables. NorthConnect is in that way a married child of that change in the Energy Act. For the Central Party, the issue is that power policy should continue to serve Norwegian consumers and Norwegian industry, that low power prices and renewable energy should continue to be one of the main competitive advantages of our industry. Today's case is about a yes or no to NorthConnect. It's not about all the other possible and impossible conditions around a concession request. The government has already said that it does not find a basis for concession now, because it is first to gain experience from two cables under construction. However, this does not prevent the construction of the cable when such experience is available, even if the NVE, the government's expert body, has already confirmed that building the cable will lead to higher electricity prices in Norway. The socio-economic profitability is due simply to the fact that the actors behind the project, namely Vattenfall and the Norwegian power companies, receive increased revenues, revenues that will be at the expense of the economy of Norwegian industry and Norwegian households. The fact that it is what is considered to be socio-economic profitability in this context is worth noting. Today, the centre party is disappointed and cannot understand that the Workers' Party will hurt itself so much that once again one goes with the government parties and sows doubts about the framework conditions of the Norwegian power-intensive industry that this time too one leaves the door open for this cable. Anyone who is concerned about developing a new, Norwegian green industry should realize that it is not the ownership of the cable that is crucial. The cable, regardless of who is the builder and who owns it, will lead to increased exports and more expensive electricity and put Norwegian industrial workplaces at risk. Such a situation would not be part of the Central Party's commitment to the Norwegian industry. We still have the opportunity to participate and secure and write on proud Norwegian industrial history. After the view of the Center Party, the best way to do it is to say a clear no to NorthConnect today. With that, I take up the proposal from the Central Party and the proposal from the Central Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1248	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1253	Norway needs a comprehensive green food reform. Over two decades, we have to replace our dependence on oil and emissions with a pollution-free economy based on renewable resources. The change must be fair, create jobs and lead to improvement for people, local communities and the environment. We need to build industry, industry that gives us the climate solutions. More environmentally friendly industries are particularly important for Norway to recover lost jobs and revenues from the petroleum industry in the future. We must therefore invest in green industrialisation if we are to preserve both well-being and solve climate challenges. The aim of the green transition must be to maintain employment in industry and thus to preserve Norwegian production and well-being for the future. Norwegian renewable energy is important in the climate struggle, both to use it to cut emissions and to develop the industry we depend on to solve the climate problem. Norwegian hydropower has been and is essential for the development of a powerful industry here to land. Fair access to clean and renewable energy has provided jobs and business development across the country. This advantage will continue to take care of and ensure. Therefore, the SV will continue to prioritise renewable energy to industry through different mechanisms that ensure this. At the same time, we know that a balanced exchange of power with our neighbouring countries makes sense to ensure stable access to power, and it also helps to phase out climate-resilient power generation in our neighbouring countries. Our power exchange helps our industry and Norwegian consumers this year where it rains little. We saw that 15 years ago in the part of the country I come from, how little rainfall the year before gave little water in the magazines and thus threats of temporary closure of large, important industrial workplaces. Fortunately, the Swedes could help us with force that year. We have a number of connections with the rest of the world today. These give us safe access to power, and it helps cut emissions. In a short time, two new cables are put into operation. Therefore, new cables should not be planned until we have experience with them. Plans for the development of NorthConnect must be stopped, as proposed by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1268	All that the representative Lars Haltbrecken of the Socialist Left Party says about climate solutions and electrification, Left fully agrees. And then SV lands by saying that Norwegian industry is more important than climate. In the left, we believe that it is possible to combine the development of Norwegian industry with Norwegian energy to reduce climate emissions in countries other than Norway. Electrification of the North Sea is an adventurous opportunity both for Norway and for the countries around the North Sea basin and in Europe. There has been a lot of talk about supply industries and jobs in oil and gas today. We should also bear in mind that we already have 20 000 people working in Norwegian electrification today. In just a few years it could be 40,000. Then we're at a level where we can start talking about the 60,000 who work directly in oil and gas. So this is an industry that's facing a big build-up, and that's going to contribute to a big cut. Liquid sea wind is one of the possibilities that lies there. From the North Sea that force can blow both ways: to Scotland or to Haugaland, which needs more. It is possible to expand NorthConnect in stages, for that matter; it is possible to start at Sveio and not in Sima. It's about 150 km of cable. There are many paradoxes in this matter. It's hard to understand today, when we almost get paid to use electricity, that it won't apply Norwegian citizens anything to contribute to climate change. But now it's not a situation that's going to be permanent. We need more renewables, and we are developing a digital power system, and into this, NorthConnect belongs at home. Then there is also a debate about private and public, and it is – I don't know what to call it – very special, because Agder Energia is also owned by municipalities, Hafslund E-CO is owned by municipalities, and Lights are owned by municipalities – so public ownership is linked to the three. It's 47 municipalities. And Swedish Vattenfall is owned by the Swedish state. So this is also going to be a red grenade to completely misplace the debate. This is an initiative to get renewable energy out of the four actors, and they can actually continue to take that initiative, only to own and operate cables in the future. It's contributing to 2 million. Tonnes cut in climate emissions are an important contribution, and I think we should get to the climate summit in Scotland in 2021 with a cable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1285	The world is in the midst of a climate crisis, and the EU will not achieve its climate objectives without shifting the energy system from fossil to renewable. A fundamental prerequisite for that conversion is the best possible cross-border power exchange. If we want to have lights in the factories when it's not raining in Norway, we're dependent on being able to import electricity when we have a deficit, and vice versa when we have a surplus. Some claim that we sell our inheritance silver when we export electricity. In the debate on foreignables, it is a completely meaningless rhetoric. The hydropower is owned by and generates revenues to the state, regardless of who we choose to sell the power to. Yes, NorthConnect can provide a little bit more expensive power, but according to the NVE, the price will increase most when it's hot, and when we produce a lot of hydropower, that is when the current is cheap and the consumption is low. Pushing people in front of them in the fight against such an important climate action by pretending that NorthConnect will shoot the power price on the roof is both populist and daunting. NorthConnect will cut emissions by 2 million. tonnes of CO 2 per year, corresponding to the emissions of one million passenger cars. Few individual measures available to Norwegian politicians have the same potential. The cable was scheduled to be put into service in the middle of 2024. The NVE believes it would give sufficient time to gain experience with the new foreign tables NSL and NordLink, but I note that the ministry has come to a different conclusion. I think it is sad that the proposers, and eventually also the government, give priority to all the necessary and even socio-economically profitable climates by saying no to the construction of NorthConnect. Norwegian politicians are not poorly informed about climate change. They have been given the message clearly and clearly for decades through meters of thick reports from researchers, through prayers from the United Nations to do more, and through thousands of young people on strike. When climate action like this has to give way to other interests, it is because the political majority in Norway still does not have the power to weigh climate considerations very heavily. Greens are hot trailers of more international cooperation with the EU as well. It is absolutely impossible to avoid climate crisis without better exchange of power in Europe, and the world has no time to say no or to postpone profitable climate projects. That is why we are tabling a loose proposal today, asking the government to ensure that the state takes over the ownership of NorthConnect, while at the same time ensuring that the cable is built as quickly as possible. I'll bring this up with our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1301	The representative of Hulda Holtvedt has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1306	The availability of short-term energy from renewable hydropower has been a decisive advantage for Norway as an industrial nation for over 100 years. But industry is at risk whose market is allowed to impose cold Norway, far northwards, about the same energy costs as the countries further south of Europe. This will increasingly happen for each new foreign table being built. The result of treating Norwegian hydropower as an export product can therefore be a major industrial death, which will also be bad for the environment, because the Norwegian metal industry has the world's lowest CO 2 emissions. They have cut the greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. since 1990. In China, aluminium production is eight times higher than in Norway, where we use Norwegian hydropower in production. So going in for new cables, which give rise to increased power prices, which in turn can lead to the deflagration of the Norwegian fossil-fired industry in China, is completely misguided climate policy. It will also be to saw a leg that we need in a situation where our entire industry is struggling, and where we need to increase industrial self-storage. The debate on NorthConnect has been a reoccurrence of this collapse period. When Red came into the Storting, the proposal to stop NorthConnect was one of the first we promoted. What's being treated today is the fourth in the sequence from us. We have been challenging oil ministers from the Progress Party for many years to stop NorthConnect. Terje Søviknes, Kjell-Børge Freiberg, Sylvi Listhaug – they all hit the ring around the cable. Only when they left the government did they join in the fight against NorthConnect. That may be the opposite of action, but I would nevertheless like to welcome you to the Progress Party. At the same time, the Labour Party – after voting on all our previous proposals – went out for the first time and reported on NorthConnect resistance. Tuesday this week there was an article in the newspaper Rana Blad from the Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party Bjørn Schjörn, entitled «Work Party stopped NorthConnect». But today, the Workers' Party once again holds the door open for concession to NorthConnect. Therefore, I will finally give the Workers' Party three well-meaning advice: First of all, listen to trust-elects in the industry around the country. Secondly, do not leave the party’s second leader standing as a conjurer in three to four years’ time. Thirdly, break the Acer agreement with the civilians and join us to ensure that the majority of the proposals to reject the concession and ensure that NorthConnect is not built. Should Norway be an industrial nation, or should we sell the power as a commodity to other countries? That is what is at the heart of this matter. That choice should be easy for most parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1330	Now that we have finally come to this matter, I have to take the opportunity to congratulate the representative Borch on the day. NorthConnect, a company owned by three of our public regional power companies in addition to Vattenfall, the state-owned Swedish power company, applied in 2017 and 2018 for the necessary permits for a power cable between Norway and the United Kingdom. As part of the concession treatment, the Ministry has asked Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate to provide an overall assessment of the applications. In the ministry’s examination of the case, it has become clear that the Norwegian and Nordic power systems are undergoing major changes and that changes are taking place quickly. Much unregulatable wind power is now being developed in Norway, the Nordic countries and Europe, while regulated fossil power generation and nuclear power are being reduced. This year and next year, the two new cables for Germany and the United Kingdom will also be put into operation. These changes will have an overall impact on the Norwegian power system, which will affect electricity prices, power flows, the disposal of Norwegian power resources over different times of the year and system operation. In this situation, it is difficult to assess whether the benefits of another cable to the rest of the world — NorthConnect — will outweigh the disadvantages. This is why, at the end of March, I informed NorthConnect that there are insufficient grounds for the requirements of the Energy Act to take decisions in the concession case now. First, we have to gain experience with the impact of the two cables under construction. The exchange of power with the countries around us is both good and necessary. Historically, it has been important to ensure Norway’s flow at a better price during the years it has been dry and our magazines have not been adequately filled. It also contributes to value creation in Norway and revenues from power sales abroad. We have experienced this with the exchange that has taken place for years. That's why NorthConnect is an interesting project. I am pleased that none of the representatives are being supported by the majority of the committee here today, but that the committee is asking the government to propose amendments to the Energy Act as soon as possible, so that, at Statnett, the State will once again have a monopoly on the foreign tables. It acknowledges that such cables to the rest of the world are important for value creation and well-being in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1345	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1350	Earlier in my post, I was pleased that the Council of State took the decision that was taken – so I announced that no concession would be given until the experience had been gained. I am also very pleased that a broad majority, ranging from SV to Right – the vast majority of parties – are now in favour of an immediate change in the Energy Act. It would have been useful if the Council of State – knowing that there will be a large majority for that decision today, and she also pointed it out herself – could say a little about how quickly she will be able to get back to the Stortinge with the concrete proposal for a modified energy law, which then determines that Statnet will have a monopoly on all future foreign establishments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1355	As I said, in line with Stortinget's leadership from the treatment of the third energy market package and any decisions in this room here today, the government will promote a legislative change on ownership of foreign connections. A draft consultation note on the amendment of the law is soon clear, and then it will be sent out by ordinary consultation. Of course, the change in the law will be in line with the leaders from Stortinget. I cannot go into the exact wording of this bill now, but it is not so far away.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1360	I thank you for that answer. I also want to follow up with a question that goes a little bit on the fundamental difference between Statnet and other private or non-state cables. One argument on our part has been that Statnett is a neutral player and is different both from a power producer and a power consumer – neutral in the market. It has been an important principle in the Norwegian transmission network that there has just been a Statnet monopoly, because there is a neutral role between the producer and the consumer in power. Does she agree that this is a good principle for cross-border connections as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1366	There is no doubt that my party has initially also been positive that private – or in this case real municipalities, to a large extent – can run such projects, but as many have pointed out here today from my own party, we are on agreements we conclude. This has been part of that agreement, and we are prepared to follow it up, as we have said all the way, but I still think it is okay for municipalities to want to promote such projects. I mean, this is value creation that benefits society as a whole, not least the municipalities behind it. But we have to follow up the agreement that we have concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1371	It was almost reassuring to right that the Council of State is not as enthusiastic about the state monopoly as it could sound like in the main post. But when one hears the argument from the Labour Party, which is essentially also about the same argument that much of the opposition otherwise leads to, that the electricity prices are significant: to what extent is there reason to believe that an extension of Statnet will give a smaller increase in the electricity prices of Norwegian industry and Norwegian customers than a private expansion that the candidate will provide?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1376	There is no doubt that electricity prices are also significant. When assessing such projects, one should have a complete look at how they affect electricity prices, industry and the Norwegian community in general. It will be important in any concession process. As I said in my post, the power system is now changing a lot. Massive deployment of unregulated force is taking place in the countries to which we are linked. It is too early now to say how the two cables that are soon to be put into service will affect. So what this will look like in a few years' time is hard to predict, but we also have to make the overall assessments under the Energy Act, and those we've done so far, show that we don't have enough knowledge to finally say if the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. And that is an important requirement of the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1381	Statnet has gone a long way in saying that the construction of NorthConnect will lead to a reduction in the profitability of existing foreign-exchange units for Statnet. Does the Council support such an assessment? And an additional question: what makes the government now realize that there was no basis for granting concession, while for – let's say – a year ago it was thought that you had a foundation? What has changed in that year, which makes the government now say that there is no basis for granting concession?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1386	The government has not at any time, nor before I became the Council of State, said that we should grant a concession to this project. There has been an ongoing concession process. After all, you do not conclude until you have completed such a process. When I became the Council of State, I took over that process and went into the matter thoroughly. It is precisely there that both benefits and disadvantages should be considered and the recommendations made by both the NVE and other hearing bodies should be thoroughly addressed. There are some different answers from the different respondents. The representative asks about reduced profitability, and it will of course be quite difficult to say something exactly about it before the two cables under construction are put into operation. This is part of what is involved in reaping experiences with them, which is also why we say that we can't give that concession at this point in time. When we're ready to reap those experiences, we'll do it, and then you might give concession or refuse concession when you get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1395	I want to follow up on some of the last councillors in their reply to the representative Myhrvold, just to gain experience from the two cables that are now coming into operation. How long does the Council of State expect to spend to reap that experience before deciding on the NorthConnect concession request?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1400	First of all, they have to be put into operation, and then you have to see how they affect the power system in different weather years. There will be some time, but exactly how much time there will be to go, I am not prepared to respond here and now. When you say you have to gain experience, you have to do exactly that. There must be a thorough process; it is the responsible way of dealing with a concession request. That will be the reason, and we'll have to make those assessments when we're ready to do them, based on that we have enough time to actually reap an experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1405	State councils were therefore asked if a NorthConnect cable operated by Statnett would result in a smaller change in the electricity price – i.e. an increase, which is documented – rather than whether NorthConnect is owned by municipalities or other private actors. It should be possible to give an answer to that question without too much outside talk? Then I think the Council of State is pleased that the Workers' Party today ensures a majority against stopping the NorthConnect concession. What I'm asking is, once a few years have passed and experience has been gained with the two new cables being built, and in that case Statnett has taken over the NorthConnect project, will today's decision in any way prevent a yes to the concession to NorthConnect in Statnett's property, let's say three to four years, given what now stands for the majority in the hall today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1412	If you now change the Energy Act, which we are going to propose, it will mean that future cables must be owned by Statnett and not by others. But the NorthConnect project is now being suspended pending experience before we can reach a final decision. Of course, in order to reach the final decision, it will be necessary to clarify the ownership of the cable in connection with that process. But the very amendment of the law will not have any retroactive effect on that project. It does not happen that it can automatically be refused because the law has changed, because you do not give changes to the law retrospectively. This is still an ongoing concession case. The issue of ownership has been agreed in Stortinget, so it will have to be dealt with in that project when we get there one day that we will make the final decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1419	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1426	This matter is once again – I do not know what kind of episode and what kind of season we are in now – wonderful to listen to. When one sees the debate in the media and various Facebook posts from different parties, one could assume that there was a clear majority to say a clear no to NorthConnect in the hall here. At the same time, when it comes to treatment in the main hall, which is the place where a decide what to do with different things, what kind of orders you have, and what to ask the government for, there's suddenly no majority anyway. When the Central Party and the Advance Party ask the Government to reject the NorthConnect concession application, it is not appropriate to have a majority – nor is it a proposal for a government to stop the planned NorthConnect expansion. I heard the council here just in advance answer questions about NorthConnect. She said that what goes on changing public ownership and changing the Energy Act will not change the issue of NorthConnect's concession treatment, will not prevent the government from saying yes to the concession for that project. And after reading the online newspaper today and hearing from the case-rapporteur and the spokesperson of the Workers' Party Espen Barth Eide, one is no less confused and worried about what's here. Maybe you're going to get the opposite of what's the Labour Party line. What one is concerned about there is that one should ensure public ownership of cables in the future, and then it is not so crucial what happens to a single project – if the rapporteur is correctly quoted in that case. Of course, it is important in the future to facilitate the ownership and operation of national networks, but what this is about is whether to say yes or no to the development of a new foreign table. We already have international connections, we have plenty of power exchanges from before, but the question is whether to say yes to an export cable that will increase the electricity prices for people and industry in Norway, which will put industrial workplaces in danger in Norway. Could not the Labour Party be involved in resolving this issue today, when we are facing a major economic crisis in Norway, with a strong increase in unemployment, where industrial jobs are also at high risk? Could one not at least be on a proposal that clearly clarifies and says that no, this cable is not to be built, regardless of whether it is directed by Statnett or anyone else? This cable will contribute to increased power prices, and we should therefore say no to the cable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1436	I want to go straight to a reply to the representative, Gülsvik, just said, because we have just clarified that no new cables will be built that will help to weaken the competition situation for Norwegian industry, which contributes to higher prices in Norway, or that do not meet the other basic principles that were widely discussed in the agreement we entered into in 2018. So to the representative, Gülsvik, we've clarified it, not only for NorthConnect, but also for all other future projects. In addition, we don't want there to be room for any future projects that are not owned by Statnett, so we've done more than just comment on the single project NorthConnect. We have been committed to putting leadership, long-term leadership, on power policy in Norway in the future as well. Because it's an almost touching performance – which I've noticed also the representative Moxne's parts – that this staging can bind all future stagings. It is not the case that a decision, an opinion or an instruction to the government on a particular concession case itself is leading almost identical projects in the future. That's not democracy. And it's pretty good that a new majority has new opportunities. On the other hand, by changing the law, by providing a broad overview of some basic principles, you would want to put on a long lead – not even the eternal, new majority can make new laws – but it is much more permanent to go into the law. So I have to say that the central party's strong commitment to this is a little in contrast to the fact that they're one of two parties that wouldn't be involved in what is the clear emphasis of the majority position on the need to amend the energy law now, and that Statnet's monopoly had to be implemented. There they stand alone with the Advance Party. All other parties – SV, MDG, Labour Party, Left, Christian People's Party and Right – are behind it, and as far as I have understood the representative of Moxnes, Red will also vote for this. So there's a broad consensus about that. It doesn't include the Center Party; it requires a clarification. Then I want to challenge the representatives of the Central Party again on what they think about it that Ola Borten Moe was at the head of making a cable for the United Kingdom of 1 400 MW, exactly the same as NorthConnect. I can say what I mean about it: I think it made sense, and I think it's enough, and it lasts a long time. But what he said when he applauded the agreement he made with the British authorities – I remember it, I put in the same government – and just before that, with the German authorities, with Philipp Rösler, who was his counterpart in Germany then, was that this would be a cable where you could import reasonable power from the outside and sell the power something more expensive back, and that it was a win-win situation for Europe. Was that wise? And is that wise to say, when you look back at it? As I said in my main post: The centre party has been the big cable builder in modern Norwegian history and really deserves quite a lot of credit for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1449	I have to say that it is disappointing to see how the Labour Party is today opposing its own voters and adding to the land-based power-processing industry in Norway. There is now a possibility to put this very controversial sea cable dead. There is no doubt that this sea cable will lead to higher power prices and greater uncertainty for the land-based and power-intensive industry in Norway. A long range of key trust leaders and group trust leaders in this industry, including: throughout the Elkem Group, the Labour Party is asking to vote in favour of the remainder of the opposition's proposal today. In addition to this, it is not difficult to find people and trustees in powerful industries who are also members and trustees of the Labour Party, who support these other trust leaders and think the same. They are genuinely afraid of their jobs if there is a higher power price because of this sea cable, and I understand that very well. The power-consuming industry consists largely of corner stone holdings around the town of Bygde-Noreg. They are very exposed to international competition, and it is challenging in a high-cost country like Norway. These companies are largely based in Norway on two stable competitive advantages, one of which is a skilled and very high skilled skilled worker, and the other is long-term agreements on low electricity prices. If you're going to start gambling with one of two clear competitive advantages for this power-consuming industry, you're gambling with thousands of resilient jobs that we should have for decades to come, and we should be very proud of. As a representative of the trade union movement, I must warn the Workers' Party against postponing this matter rather than standing on the side of the trustees in this matter. It's a shame the Labour Party didn't listen very well to the trade movement. We saw the same thing in the Acer case, where the Workers' Party in retrospect thinks they're undoing and have learned, but I have to say it doesn't show again in this case here, and it disappoints me.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1462	Norwegian hydropower resources have provided value creation and light and heat for over 100 years. This resource must also benefit future generations. The size ensured early that the hydropower resources would remain in Norwegian hands, through the concession laws, the right to return, which was introduced all the way back to 1909. Norwegian households, not least Norwegian companies, have benefited from the traditional low electricity prices in Norway. For Norwegian industry, access to cheap power has been a competitive advantage over many decades. We need to take care of the advantages Norway has with good access to cheap renewable energy. Today we have a Nordic power market with excess power that gives low prices. With multiple transmission cables, we get a high-priced European electricity market. In that case, the EU competition rules will prohibit the protection of Norwegian industry. In addition, we are part of ACER, which will monitor and adopt rules to ensure that the flow flows for market reasons, not national considerations. Selling Norwegian hydropower has always been and will always be unwise. Therefore, of course, the buyers are in line at the border. It is very unwise and slightly forward-looking that such considerations come to the surface at regular intervals. What these often camouflaged voices will achieve is a market that is also for ownership. Now they are once again, perhaps not directly, but indirectly through subtle ways of weakening local and national ownership, a bit-by-bit policy that complicates the real political objective of dismantling the Norwegian power industry by removing national and local power and allowing the market and the EU to take over completely. The centre party will use our hydropower to ensure low electricity prices both for families and for industry in Norway. That is why we say a clear no to the NorthConnect export cable. The NVE states that the companies behind the NorthConnect cable will mainly not make money on the power they sell through the cable, but that the electricity price is increasing in Norway. Low power prices are one of the main competitive advantages of the Norwegian power-processing industry. Although NorthConnect is intended not to be socio-economically profitable, it appears that there may be different distribution effects between different actors in Norway. The power exchange shall serve both Norwegian consumers and Norwegian industry, as it has done for decades. The majority point to Norway’s increased security of supply and lower electricity prices by investing in power exchanges than we would have had without. Norway now imports about as much power as we export, both negotiated under the red-green government, i.e. two cables. They'll be in place soon. With these in place, our power exchange capacity will already be much higher than that of most comparable countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1477	This debate has – perhaps alarmingly – been elucidating. It wasn't about the industrial workers or the power prices for most people who were the most important thing for the Workers' Party. It was the state monopoly. So it's strange to say that the Labour Party criticises the Center Party when, for once, they're some of the Progress Party. Municipal ownership may not be the most dangerous thing in the world. It's a rather classic position for a party that thinks that reason is fairly equally distributed around the country. What's at least as fun to observe is that state council Tina Bru completely clothes the reasoning of the Workers' Party when she confirms far by the way that it is of course not such that if Statnet builds a cable, then the effect for power customers is less than if municipally owned companies do, and quite precisely clarifies that today's decisions in Stortinget in no way prevent the government from having full room for action to grant concession to NorthConnect. All that the Workers' Party has been telling out there for months is not true when it is testing how it is understood by those who are going to make the final decisions. This means that state monopolist Barth Eide is completely undressed: At the end of the day, it's just about a use of this case to ensure that the municipalities can't pick up this value in the future – that the state monopoly will continue to do – without thinking about what kind of consequences the NorthConnect expansion might have for the industry. The state monopoly was more important than the industrial policy of the Labour Party than once.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1486	The last post was at least not very elucidating, rather real, as to what is the actual matter. Firstly, it was the representative Dale's own party, the Progress Party, who, when they were in government, made sure to have a change in the energy law that laid the foundation for NorthConnect. It's not possible to refute it. It is not about municipalities being able to draw any income from a foreign table — no, it is about anyone being able to draw income from a foreign table, as the law was rigged under the leadership of the Advance Party in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. So speaking out of both mouths is the Progress Party very good at. When they put their mind into securing the future of Norwegian industrial workplaces, it may be touching to listen, but when they go in and do something that actually matters, there is a complete lack of willingness to do something. The most important thing in this matter now is of course to change the Energy Act, for one might say no to the concession today and get a new concession from a completely different private actor tomorrow. So the ball will keep rolling if it's up to the Progress Party – and the Center Party, amazing enough. The fact that the Center Party does not agree to change the Energy Act back to what the Center Party actually thought in 2016 is a mystery to me. If one wants to have control of the concession requests to deal with the foreign tables in the future, it must be the State network and the State that is responsible for it, because that is when the government can take the lead on whether to promote it or how to do it. But if one leaves it to Agder Energie, Skagerak Energie, Vattenfall or others who might have an interest in building such a cable, one has lost control of it. Those who try to explain it in this case have not understood the matter. There is also a lack of willingness to put this into a perspective where there is energy security, industry, jobs and the use of the fantastic resources it is about – because that is what it is doing. Power exchanges have not only been stupid; power exchanges have served Norwegian consumers and Norwegian industry so far. But we are very clear that now we need to have experience with what is actually going on, so that we know what it's all about in the future – and that's what we've done, while we've been able to introduce what was our main appeal point in 2016, the change in the Energy Act that Tord Lien, the oil and energy minister of the time, offered. In any case, it should also ensure that the Center Party votes for today, so that we have a clear idea of what the Center Party will do after the big elections in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1501	A few useful clarifications have come through this round in Stortinget. One came from the Council of State in the exchange of lines, namely that of course the law does not have retroactive effect. There is nothing of what is adopted today, like the Workers' Party fronts, that will actually prevent NorthConnect from being realised, even in the non-state direction. There will be a breach of agreement – that is right – but nothing in the proposals will stand in the way of it, because it does not have any retroactive effect. It's one useful clarification we've received from the Council of State. Then, of course, this big business can't tie up future big business. The representative Barth Eide is right in that, and we fully agree with that. Our point is this: if we say no to the concession today, we avoid the application being in the drawer, ready for treatment for the government in the next period, so that the future oil and energy minister, if called Bru or Barth Eide, can press the yes button as soon as he wishes. So if we say no to the application today, a new application is required, followed by a new democratic process, where, hopefully, the majority can press a new government to stand on the side of industry and not the power industry. There is the difference between doing as the Workers' Party does today and pressing the Pause button for the application for NorthConnect together with the citizens in government, or doing as Red, along with a number of other parties, and clearly going in to reject the concession request through a decision in the Storting today. The path to the realization of this export cable – which will thus increase the electricity price to the detriment of both Norwegian industry and Norwegian residents – is much shorter if the Stortingen today is careful to press the Pause button, which also means that the State can take over the project – it has happened before, in connection with Statnett. This in itself will not lead to a reduction in the electricity price increase if NorthConnect is owned by municipalities and Swedish Vattenfalls. Let it be clear: Red naturally supports a state monopoly on foreign relations. We're for that, but we don't think that in itself will lead to NorthConnect becoming something less harmful than what it becomes if ownership is different. So there's a clear difference between going with the Right about a break, or with industry, Red and other parties and saying no to concession.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1516	The representative Barth Eide was concerned that the Central Party through several oil and energy ministers has contributed over time to the build-up of electricity exchange capacity with the rest of the world. That's absolutely right. This has led to the fact that we currently have a lot of developed power exchange capacity with the rest of the world. When you had a red-green government, you said yes to some exchange projects. What the representative Barth Eide specifically referred to was the concession under the Right-Fremskritsparte-government, but it was also agreed to projects under the red-green government, and it was said no to projects that were thought to be unwise. The project we're about to decide on today is NorthConnect. Then the Workers' Party must also be able to decide – yes or no – whether it is wise or not. It's nice to increase the level of what one says in the hall, but it would have been nice if the representative Aasland could have presented arguments as to why the Workers' Party should not vote for the proposal of the Center Party that we have with the Progress Party and SV, which clearly says no to NorthConnect. That's what we need to clarify first. If that project occurs at a later stage under the direction of Statnett, it would be equally harmful for Norwegian industry and for Norwegian jobs. That's why we have to get rid of it now, make sure that you say no to NorthConnect's concession application – stop that project, as the Workers' Party has the opportunity to secure a majority here today. If the Workers' Party figures can go up here and say that we're going to contribute to it, we're going to help secure that majority, then the Centre Party is going to be happy to vote for proposals to amend the Energy Act. We're to change the Energy Act, so it's Statnett to own and operate foreign tables. It was our energy minister in the red-green government that provided the last time. Of course, we will do it again, but what we have to do first is stop NorthConnect, a cable that becomes a clean export cable, which has a capacity to export more power than is used in the largest industrial sites in Norway combined, and which is clear will contribute to higher electricity prices for people and industry in Norway. It would be a great handshake for all those in the industry who are now wondering about their future. In this case, it must at least be possible to clarify that this cable should be stopped and this should be done by decision of the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1527	We are now dealing with one of the most controversial issues in Norwegian energy policy in recent years, namely the possible construction of a power cable to Scotland, the so-called NorthConnect. Fortunately, while I was still a member of the Energy and Environment Committee, I was able to help promote one of the proposals to say no to NorthConnect, which unfortunately does not get a majority today. I say unfortunately – not because I do not like the companies to make money, but because I do not want anyone to make that money by moving the electricity bill to the consumer, which you can see is that the electricity price will increase as a result of NorthConnect development. Now I am not going to start a big windmill debate, but just as I am critical of the fact that the wind power industry is making money to shift the bill to others, I am skeptical and critical of the fact that it is the power customers, who are all – from Olga of 80 to Ole of 18 years old – who are going to pay for the EU climate party with increased electricity prices in Norway. So I remember very well two years ago when we discussed ACER. And then the Central Party very much warned against that we were not going to discuss it, that Norway was no longer going to decide whether or not we were going to build foreign tables, because it was the Acer that was going to do it. It becomes quite strange when we are now discussing a foreign table in this room today. Then I think it was played out and the statements the Center Party made then come in a rather strange light. And then I would say it's quite strange that many people say that it's not so bad that the electricity price is going to increase, because it's so low in Norway already. There are many people who might be very happy that it's just now incidentally low. But it's not so stupid that the electricity price is low in Norway, precisely because we produce the electricity in Norway. We use electricity for heating in houses and homes, as opposed to what you do in many other places in Europe. Finally, it is not the case that the Progress Party is opposed to any exchange of power. We're happy to trade, and we're a small country looking beyond, but we're not happy to build a cable that gives increased power prices to consumers, and that's where the profit lies, that's to push the bill on everyone. Then I had hoped that maybe those who are to build the cable would have been honest enough to say that you want to build the cable because the climate gain is greater than the other gain. I had hoped they could be honest and say it in the hall today. Otherwise there has been an interesting debate, and I hope that the clarification will come during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1542	It is interesting to follow the debate, and it is interesting to hear the greenwashing that is taking place around NorthConnect by saying that it is crucial for climate change in Europe. What you're not talking about is there's also a negative side. It is obvious that we are going to move exports from the continent to the United Kingdom, and we know that the energy mix on the continent has significantly higher CO 2 emissions than the energy mix in Great Britain has. I should also like to look at that equation. That's also how the cable will give you an increased price of power. There's no doubt about it, NVE has been clear on it. This will result in an increased net cost for the Norwegian process industry of about 1 billion. kr per year. What that will mean for the global market share of hydropower-based products in relation to coal-based production around the world is no one talking about, or the emission impact there. Nor is there any mention of the ability to invest in the production of emission-free industrial products, e.g. Aluminium and silicon, and thus again increased renewable energy consumption in Norway — that is not what we are talking about. It's not that we're in the middle of a green transition where the world is going to change production technologies for the most volatile industrial products, like cement, steel – and again: aluminium and silicon. Norway has a good starting point for being a driver in that process. But how will increasing power prices affect Norway’s ability to take the lead in that work? A transmission cable could also affect climate investment or renewable investment in the United Kingdom. Without a cable, we might imagine that the British have to invest more in their own renewable production, in batteries and hydrogen solutions, but if the power comes cheaply from Norway, what will it do with the rate of investment in renewables in the United Kingdom? Have you considered the climate benefit of using Norwegian renewable power generation to maximise local production of such industrial products as I mentioned before, which could be rapidly replaced elsewhere in the world based on coal-based industry? It is the basic industry that we need when the oil industry is stepped down for natural reasons. Now the Storting is in the process of risking that we are in a situation where there is a yellow light for further renewable industrial production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1558	Let me repeat it: I don't want to point out if anyone has a hard time for it – it's been mentioned before – I sometimes have a heavy time for it myself. Let me put it another way: the Labour Party is opposed and will remain against any cable connection – whether Statenett or not – that helps to aggravate the competition situation for Norwegian industry. It is very clearly established in our policies, in our work programme. It is also part of the agreement with which we have a broad majority, that the first priority for Norwegian power should be ample, reasonable and pure force for Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers. We know from experience that the comprehensive network of foreign tables we have so far has contributed to it. It flows in with cheap Danish wind power large parts of the year, which is more reasonable than the hydropower we produce ourselves, and then we can sell back hydropower. It helps the Danes get rid of electricity, we make money in Norwegian municipalities, and we get cheaper electricity for Norwegian consumers. So cables can contribute to it. NorthConnect, as it looks now, regardless of ownership, won't have that effect. What NVE calculates is that the price goes up. So we're against NorthConnect, even though it's taken over by Statnett. At the same time, we cannot sit here and say that any cable in any future will have that effect. The reason why we want to gain experience is that you want to see how this develops, and then you have to understand the evolution on both sides of this cable. One of the Ola Borten Moes two large cables, North Sea Link, is at 1,400 MW and goes from Suldal to Newcastle. It will be physically identical – identical – to NorthConnect, but with two differences: one is that it is owned by Statnett and not by municipalities; the other is that there will be another cable. Statnett himself says, very wisely, that now it's enough for a while, we don't need another cable to Britain, at least not in a good time, because we're going to reap the experience of the cable that Ola Borten Moe and we – I put in the same government – got through after long and good negotiations with National Grid and with the owners on the British side. We need to distinguish between what we think about cable policy in general and what principles should be applied. In very many of the posts in this case, the focus is on NorthConnect that you almost start to wonder that if it came back the next day with the name SouthConnect, it was okay. There must be some lasting leads on what you want with the cable exchange. So far it's been okay. Now we must have experience, that is also what Statnett means. It is an important point that Statnett has made it very clear that they do not want this cable. The probability that they are going to run it as a wish project is rather small when they a few weeks ago, in a hearing opinion, said the very opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1572	As I said in my previous post, power exchange is something that will serve both Norwegian consumers and Norwegian industry, and it has done so for many decades. The majority in this case says exactly the same thing. The point is that Norway already has significant capacity for exchanges, and – as was said repeatedly – two new cables, both negotiated under the red-green government, are soon in place. With these in place, our power exchange capacity will already be much larger than that of most comparable countries – as I said in my previous post. There have been many flaming speeches that changes in the Energy Act are the most important when we are now discussing a proposal for a representative on NorthConnect. There must be a bomb on the record. What we're talking about now is a matter that's been going on in the media, in the main hall – yes, everywhere – for a long, long, long time. There's a clarification people expect about NorthConnect. That's what we're talking about in the hall right now. We have to reap experience, it is said. You talk about a law and a change in an energy law not having retroactive effect in an ongoing concession case. Then everyone understands what kind of opportunities open up here. Agreements shall not be broken. It's a big deal. At the same time, it is said that the Storting cannot bind future accumulation forever. Here there are many uncertainties that can arise both here in the Storing and outside the Storing. If you can't say no to NorthConnect now, you have substitute motives. I'm pretty sure of that. By not saying no, the majority of the Workers' Party opens up to drag the NorthConnect cable into Scottish port. Then the question is, how much fog can we accept? There is not enough of a recommendation to the government to secure a monopoly on foreign cables. That is what was said when the Workers' Party, together with the government, secured a majority to give sovereignty over parts of Norwegian energy policy to the EU Energy Agency Acer when we discussed it last. When the Workers' Party claims that the agreement with the government about Acer stopped NorthConnect, there can be no problem saying yes that NorthConnect is not being built. The doubt must now be removed. We have the golden opportunity today, and neither pickers nor Norwegian industry need uncertainty to be removed indefinitely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1587	If the uncertainty is to continue, it is only to do as the Progress Party and the Centre Party do, just not to take action now and change the Energy Act. Because that's where the uncertainty lies. I think we just have to admit that. For the sake of Norwegian industry and Norwegian energy policy, the Labour Party took responsibility for the EU's third energy market package, promoted some points and demands towards the government and got the government involved. We're very happy about that. That's why the government has now said no to NorthConnect. One will change the Energy Act. There are two essential elements to this effect. It looks like it's a little bit forgotten in that discussion. I'm amazed at that, because it's absolutely essential. That's exactly what basic principles are. It's not possible to explain it in any way. That's precisely because we already saw that NorthConnect could lead to an increase in price. We didn't have to wait for a socio-economic analysis. We didn't want any more pressure on the force exchange. Sometime later, like the Workers' Party is for NorthConnect. No, we've always been against it. We have been opposed to the basis for which the Advance Party opened in 2016, with regard to NorthConnect. That's what's important. It is as the representative Barth Eide said brilliantly: the Labour Party will never vote for proposals that destroy the future foundations of industry in Norway – never – neither in terms of CO 2 compensation nor in terms of network access. For other things that have an impact on Norwegian industry, we are on the industry side all the way. So to the order problem of the representative Geelsvik: Yes, we can say no to NorthConnect today, and we can say no to NorthConnect tomorrow, but NorthConnect can again apply for concession in the morning. There is no eternal basis either for government or for greatness or for NorthConnect. The principle can be promoted again tomorrow. Then you have to make sure that someone gets away with the foundation that allows NorthConnect to apply for a concession. It's orderly, but it doesn't understand the Center Party. That's what I'm very surprised about, because the Center Party in 2016 was so very concerned that one should not change the Energy Act, which in turn gave the basis for the NorthConnect application, and which today creates frustration, but where everyone initially agrees that it should not be built, and should not be built, as the situation is now. Even the Minister for Oil and Energy agrees. She's the one who stopped it right now. I don't quite understand. You have to try to stick to reality. The Workers' Party will never be involved in adopting issues that have a negative impact on Norwegian industry in this store. On the contrary, we will build it, and we will also build energy security, goodness and security for ordinary people in connection with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1603	The centre party has been fully aware that Norway should reject the concession request for the construction of NorthConnect. It's about two things. It's about not wanting to give the EU power over Norwegian natural resources, and it's about not wanting to increase consumers and industry' electricity prices. I notice what the Workers' Party says here, but the NVE states that this power cable will mean an increase in the electricity price. In addition, if this cable is built, there will also be an increase in the network path. In total, this will put on Norwegian consumers and industry billions in increased costs, weaken the competitiveness of industry and make industry worse to make new, environmentally friendly investments. I am surprised that the Workers' Party is so winged in this matter. Not today will they say clearly no to a concession for NorthConnect, and today we can also read in the class struggle that the Workers' Party calls the suspension of NorthConnect a winner. Then I would like to ask the Workers' Party whether they have asked the industrial worker in Mo in Rana, in Sauda or in Årdal if they see this as a victory for the industry. In addition, it is said in the class struggle that the working party ensures that it will not be opened for the cable this large-scale period. Well, now it's not that long left of this grossing-up period. I can certainly say that the Senterpartiet will work hard to ensure that this concession will not be given during the next downtime or the downtime after that. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party does not seem to be of the same opinion. It is not without reason that the industry is against this cable, and I thought the Workers' Party listened to the industry. Today, I am disappointed that there is no clearer decision to say no to the entire NorthConnect concession. I wonder what the Workers' Party is going to say to the industrial workers in Årdal after the debate today. The working party could today ensure a clear and clear decision to say no to this concession, and I notice that they do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1618	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1623	The core of this case is whether or not to stop the NorthConnect project. These include: The central party has proposed in this case, and which would be able to have a majority if the Labour Party voted in favour, is firstly that one should ask the government to reject the NorthConnect concession application. The second is that a beg government to stop the planned expansion of NorthConnect. That position could be given a majority in this Chamber, and then the government would have to act upon it, if it had a majority position. If that position does not have a majority, the Energy Minister's position is still valid, namely that the government still has the freedom to grant concessions to NorthConnect at a later date. That's the core of the matter. This is why it is vital when we deal with the issue in Stortinget – the National Assembly of the country – to ensure the safety of Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs and to ensure that this matter is stopped today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1628	This is a time in the debate when you should join by saying something new, so at least I should make a little effort to do so. I have also forgotten to congratulate the representative Borch on the day, so I will start with it. So I'll answer her question: Have we talked to the industrial workers? Yes, of course we do. We've been talking to them in depth for years. The decision made by the National Government of the Workers' Party in March 2018, which very much contains what was reflected in the later agreement, came after extensive discussions with them. As late as a few days ago, we had a big conference with a number of trustees from Industry Energy and went through just this. And I felt that there was broad support that we had now, first of all, made sure that NorthConnect is not being built now – that is what is about this period, before we reap experience – that we have put very clear leads on what kind of experience we are looking for, given the price and effect on the Norwegian system, and that we have had the effect of immediately changing the energy law in the direction of restoring Statnett's monopoly. The sum of it is an important breakthrough. So, yeah, we talked to them. There were also several of them who enthusiastically pointed out that the industrial workers in Norway are not against cables. They are against the cables that lead to a worsening competitive situation, but they are – naturally and logically enough – for those cables that have the opposite effect. Something else would be very strange, because in that case they would have been against cables that make the flow cheaper in Norway than with the competitors. They do not have that position, and they were concerned about getting there. So there are relationships around this cable, this connection, between Norway and the United Kingdom, at the top of a cable that has already been adopted to the United Kingdom, which has been the topic. We don't want that cable built, and we don't want that kind of cable built in the future either. But it is a little important to get a clarification from the Central Party on such an important issue in the long run: what if the experience over time shows that the United Kingdom is succeeding in becoming a country that is mainly driven by renewable energy, as they say they will, and with which they are well on the way? Scotland was a little over 10 pst. renewable ten years ago; now they have over 75 pst. self-production of renewable energy. They have a surplus of renewable energy for several days and do not turn on coal-fired power plants at all. If the United Kingdom ended up as Denmark, so that we could import cheap power back – are you still against it, because one decided once between 2018 and 2020 to always be against any cable called NorthConnect, or anything else, just because one meant it, or will one change vision if it actually pays off for Norwegian consumers and Norwegian industry? It can actually happen, because it happened to Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1639	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1657	Gas from Norway has been seen for many years as the major climate change solution, the one that will ensure oil companies both new extraction permits and the necessary emission cuts. We can go back to the debate on the construction of highly polluting gas power plants in the 1990s, in which the Right Party and the Workers' Party argued together that the export of power from highly polluting gas power stations would give less coal power in other countries at home. Afterwards, the opponents of the highly polluting gas power stations gave straight. The gas power plants would have led us even further away from our international climate obligations, and the gas power plant that was built on Kårstø was not put into operation until it was demolished and shut down. It was uncompetitive with renewable and zero-emission energy. The gas power case showed that there is no fossil gas that is the alternative to coal. Renewable energy is the option. It would have been interesting to know how many millions, perhaps billions, were wasted on the highly polluting gas power plants in their time – money that could instead have gone to the real climate solutions. But I don't think we'll ever know. Today, we are facing a similar situation, only on an even larger scale. The EU, the main market for fossil gas from Norway, has major plans for decarbonisation of the economy. Their objectives for reducing emissions, investing in renewable energy and, above all, improving energy efficiency will reduce the need to import gas. EU energy and climate policies, such as: expressed through the so-called decarbonisation package, means reduced imports of gas. Fossil gas has too high emissions of greenhouse gases when the EU is to achieve its future objectives. In addition, they look at the possibility of meeting more of their gas needs with biogas produced in EU countries. It is estimated that these low-emission gases will be capable of covering from 30 pst by 2050. And all the way up to 70 pst. of total gas consumption in the EU. Today these low-emission gases cover less than 5 pst. In addition, in order to make the EU less dependent on gas for building heating, there will be consequences for it about a third of the EU's natural gas imports and coming from Norway. There is good reason to challenge an established truth – or a myth, as I would call it – that gas is so environmentally friendly. An article from the CICERO research foundation before Christmas says: ‘The world’s CO 2 emissions are expected to increase by 0.6 per cent in 2019 due to a sharp increase in the use of natural gas and oil and despite a decrease in coal consumption. Natural gas has been the main cause of the increase in global CO 2 emissions since 2012.’» Glen Peters, research director at CICERO, said: ‘The low emission increase in 2019 is due to an unexpected decline in global coal consumption, but this decline has not been significant enough to compensate for the robust growth in the use of natural gas and oil.’ He went on to say: ‘Natural gas is a cleaner fossil fuel than coal, but replacing coal with gas only causes the planet to boil a little slower.’ Last year, the European Investment Bank issued a decision to halt investments in new fossil energy projects. Gas may be excluded, but the use of carbon capture and storage is assumed. In the next few years, gas consumption in Europe may be roughly flat, perhaps even slightly increasing, but progress in the future is a decline if the EU follows its climate objectives and renewable energy targets. Existing Norwegian gas production is likely to be set aside in the coming years, but we look past 2030 and take seriously the EU's climate targets, which we should do, the picture looks different. I Prop. 80 S for 2017-2018, which is about the development of the Johan Castberg field, but also about Norwegian petroleum policy, refers to a study conducted by the Oil Directorate of the value creation of the exploration activity in the period 2008-2017. Expected future sales revenues for oil and gas from the findings were then estimated to be approximately 960 billion. kr higher than the expected development and operating costs – that was 960 billion. kr more than the expected development and operating costs. The question is whether this assessment stands today, in the light of the EU's new energy and climate policies and their needs, or their reduced needs, for the import of gas. We in the SV believe that at least a new review of Norwegian petroleum policy is needed in the light of the EU's climate plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1694	EU energy and climate policies are constantly evolving both in terms of targets and the use of instruments. A large proportion of the oil and gas produced on Norwegian soil is currently sold to buyers in Europe. A change in energy and climate policy in the EU and its central Member States could also have consequences for our petroleum activities and our biggest and most important industries. I am very pleased with this opportunity to elaborate on important and central points relating to this topic. EU countries are closest to Norway when it comes to achieving more sustainable development in line with the UN’s sustainability targets. The solution to these challenges needs to be found in global cooperation. To achieve the very ambitious sustainability goals, someone has to go ahead and show the way, as we do with Europe. As part of this, we are going to help cover the world's increasing energy consumption, and we are going to work towards achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We will meet our national climate commitments together with the EU. Even when the framework conditions in Europe related to gas change, the message is the same: we also need gas from Norway far into the future. In recent years, the European gas market has become increasingly part of a global market. The EU can import gas from several new producer countries and there is now a close link between the gas price in Europe and the price in other regional markets. This means that what happens to gas in Europe is influenced by much more than EU energy policy, such as geopolitical conditions and gas prices in other regions. Natural gas covers 23 pst. of the world's energy use. In fact, the world's country is using more and more gas. Over the last ten years, the global consumption of natural gas has increased by 30 pst. The fields on the Norwegian pedestal account for approx. half of Europe's total production, or about 3 pst. of the production of gas in the world. Gas is also an important part of the European energy supply. Gas covers 25 pst. of energy needs, and more countries are shutting down coal power, e.g. United Kingdom and Germany. That twist will continue in the future as well. For Norway as a gas exporter, the evolution of EU import needs for gas is as important as demand. The EU has never imported more gas than in 2019. With constantly reduced production of natural gas in the EU, the gap between the need for gas and the production of gas will remain there. EU countries import around 80 pst. of its gas needs. Therefore, there will be a need for continued high gas imports even if demand is gradually reduced. EU imports of LNG from the world market are now about as high as Norway’s gas exports. Demand for LNG is increasing globally, especially in Asia. This growth in demand can in the long term contribute to reducing LNG supply in the European market and strengthening gas prices. Norway is a stable and reliable supplier of gas. It is in the interest of our European friends that we maintain a high level of gas exports in the future. As I said, these are also the signals I get in my dialogue with colleagues around Europe. Gas from Norway has a lower carbon footprint than other EU imports. This is because we have a high CO 2 tax and a quota obligation on a Norwegian base. The industry has recently set ambitious climate targets at 40 pst. reduction to 2030 and beyond to close to zero in 2050. The gas export from Norwegian socket remains relatively stable until the mid-2020s. The current estimate suggests a slight and gradual decrease in production thereafter, in line with the fact that existing fields are being emptied and not replaced by new production capacity. We expect exports to remain at a relatively high level even in the 2030s. Natural gas has many good qualities as an energy source and is already contributing to the EU's energy transition. It is flexible, safe, reasonable and has significantly lower emissions than coal. It is used for heating, industry and power generation, to mention something. Gas also works well to support variable renewable energy production from wind and sun and can handle variations when the sun does not shine and the wind does not blow. Gas power can then be turned up and down quickly and efficiently. A number of EU countries have now decided — or are in the process — to phase out the use of coal in power generation, as I mentioned earlier. Such conversion is hardly possible without the use of gas in the production of electricity. In the long term, EU countries are planning to decarbonise their energy sector. Hydrogen has characteristics that make it, in the longer term, part of the solution to the climate challenge. This applies in particular to difficult and costly measures to electrify, e.g.: some industrial processes and in parts of the transport sector. Hydrogen can also be used in the power sector and it can be incorporated into natural gas and thus reduce emissions from gas use. If hydrogen is to be produced on a large scale and with low emissions, it is difficult to see that it must not be partly from natural gas and with CO 2 management. A challenge facing hydrogen is also the level of costs. The interpellation asks about the calculations of the value creation from the exploration and development activities carried out in Prop. 80 S for 2017-2018, is in the light of EU climate and energy policy. The revenue was estimated to be 960 billion. kr higher than the cost. Long-term estimates of oil and gas prices are difficult to predict, not least in recent times. But I believe that the calculations still provide a reasonable estimate of the value creation potential in the long term, even with variable prices and changing framework conditions. How large values are actually created will only show the future. Norwegian gas has a short way to the market and its delivery costs are low. We are competitive even though gas prices would stay at a low level during periods. It is the industry that has the most knowledge, competence and information about opportunities — and challenges — that one faces. Therefore, operators and rights holders of the socket are responsible for searching, planning and expanding oil and gas fields. Decisions in this industry — as in other industries — are taken under uncertainty of a technological and market nature. The assessment of the uncertainty associated with future oil and gas prices, including the effects of climate change measures regionally and globally, is one of the economic risks taken into account by industry operators. Short-range Norwegian gas, produced with one of the world’s lowest carbon footprints, produced in a democratic and stable country, is actually a cornerstone of Europe’s energy supply – where our partners and friends will reach climate targets together with us, and where we see that both CCS and hydrogen represent an enhanced possibility for Norwegian gas as climate targets are tightened and the green transition continues. I cannot see the need for a new review of Norwegian petroleum policy, as the representative Haltbrecken calls for. The EU's energy and climate policies are in line with our petroleum policy, and together we are dependent on natural gas, new technologies and a stronger climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1746	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I note that at the beginning of my speech, the Council of State recognises that the EU's climate and energy policy also affects Norwegian gas production and Norwegian petroleum production as a whole. But from that recognition to the last part of the answer, where the Council of State does not see the need for a new review of Norwegian petroleum policy, it is quite a great distance, as I record it. Governments indicate that the consumption of gas has increased by about 30 pst. in recent years. Yes, this is also, as CICERO said before Christmas, the main reason why global emissions have risen. Increased gas consumption is now one of the drivers of the climate crisis and no longer the solution that was envisaged. So the Council of State says that from the mid-2020s we will have a gradual reduction in the production of Norwegian gas from the existing fields. This means that if you want to maintain production or even increase it, new fields need to be opened. This can be fields that are far from existing infrastructure, that are far north, and without saying anything about the environmental consequences of it, these are also expansions that could be significantly more expensive than the expansions that we have seen in recent years. State councils mention hydrogen bet as important. There I share the opinion of the Council of State that we need a strong commitment to hydrogen, and if it is to come from natural gas, it is a prerequisite that carbon capture and storage are linked to it. In conclusion, I would just like to add that if one saw that Norwegian gas exports could continue as before, why has the Council of State, after the Council of State from the current government, been going down to the EU to argue against an increase in energy efficiency, which, according to EU plans, will further reduce import needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1761	There is no doubt – as the representative says – that EU climate policy is ambitious and is becoming even more ambitious. And not least in the current situation, with the covid-19 pandemic, the EU is also focusing on the fact that the transformation that will come out of what we see now must be green and go in a sustainable direction. It's a message I support. I believe it is very important that Norway is part of what is going to happen in Europe, that we support that development, and that we also have ambitious and committed climate goals that we should follow. That's what's going to matter what this is going to look like in the future. A fundamental principle of our climate policy is precisely that we need to work on the demand side to get the global impact where we reach the climate targets. We have to get away from using fossil energy, we have to move on to using more renewable energy. Norway is taking many measures nationally, and Europe is doing its own. Not least, Norwegian electric car policy is a very good example of what technology development, supported by authorities, can actually contribute to. Then I want to comment on what is being said about finding, building out and looking for more oil and gas. It is absolutely true that production on a Norwegian base is about to halve by 2050, but it is important to include it in the picture that it will happen despite the fact that we have to look, find more and expand, and anyway – if we do – production will have its natural decline. It's because it's not a renewable resource, it's a fossil resource, and it finally runs out. But that's why I think there's room for us to continue, as long as it's profitable, to search, expand and produce from Norwegian soil, at all times when Europe still needs gas and the world still needs oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1770	This is a very important discussion for the energy nation of Norway. Tina Bru is Minister for Oil and Energy. So she is the State Council for both fossil and renewable. What is now happening in the EU affects both sides of the department's scope and the area we are discussing today, because it can create completely new export opportunities – not only by force, which we have talked a lot about today, but also by technology around controlling a renewable power system. It is important to understand the consequences of gas. We've actually had that discussion here in the hall before. I see that former Councillor Freiberg is present, and I remember an interesting exchange with him on the same subject. I think it's important that we calmly and properly sit down and think about what is the overall impact on the energy nation of Norway of what the EU is now saying. I am the first to say that gas has been an important bridge for the development of a more renewable market in Europe. It is today, and it will remain for a while. But it is also true, as the interpellant Haltbrecken has been involved, that the EU's way of talking about gas changed once a year, from largely talking about gas as part of the solution to increasingly saying that – yes, solution now, problem in the longer term. That's why I think what the government council was about, hydrogen, is incredibly important to lift quickly and clearly now. I look forward to a national hydrogen strategy, because I think Norway will have a lot to get to invest in technology development for the use of hydrogen, for example. in long-distance transport or in those parts of the industry which require very much concentrated heat, and also in the production of both blue and green hydrogen. Many experts believe that in the very long run it may be that the green hydrogen, i.e. what comes from electrolysis, will win in competition, but it will be a long period when converted gas via CCS will be what creates enough volumes. This is a great opportunity for Norway. It is also a good climate action, but it may also prove to be the very long-term solution to a fundamental problem that we want if the market that takes away something like 96-97 pst. of our gas, eventually do not want gas in the form of natural gas, but want to get away quickly from it. I hope that this question we are now taking thoroughly and seriously, and that we will come back to a comprehensive review of what the European Green Deal and the energy plans resulting from it mean for the energy nation of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1779	I was lifted by the last post to Barth Eide. There is a completely different article about the importance of the gas ahead than what we heard from the Workers' Party in the matter I referred to at the beginning of my interpellation, the gas power case a little over 20 years ago. So to the debate, things can change quickly. It hasn't shown us at least the last few weeks. This will also be seen in the future when countries by country are going to free themselves from the use of fossil energy. Then fossil energy projects that, if not just today, so tomorrow, look profitable, even in the lifetime of the projects, can in a few years prove unprofitable. In other words, we are at risk of underpinning investments to which the Norwegian community may lose money because the EU and other countries will phase out the use of gas and replace it with either biogas or renewable solutions. These changes, which can come quickly, we have to be able to take over. So if the government does not want to submit a proposal for a new review of Norwegian petroleum policy in the light of what is now happening in the EU and their work on decarbonisation, then I can assure both the Council of State and this room that SV is going to promote such a proposal if not for long.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1786	I think I would like to start by saying thank you to the representative Haltbrecken for starting an important and useful discussion. This is a debate we absolutely need. I do not disagree with quite a few of the points which the halt break draws up, but I think we must also recognise that the energy transition that Europe is facing will take time. It is true that in some circles it is discussed to phase out gas, but first you have to phase out coal, then you have to phase out nuclear power, and then you have to build up a lot of renewable energy, and you need a partner for renewable energy to be something you're willing to bet on. You have to ensure security of supply at the bottom, make sure that the current is there when you need it, regardless of whether you need a conversion. But there are also many positive features in Europe. I notice that e.g. the whole discussion about carbon capture and storage is a completely different issue in Europe now than it was a few years ago. There is a lot of interest in what we work with in Norway about this, there is a much more positive attitude towards the kind of technology, there are several industrial actors discussing it – many have also contacted Norway and not least Equinor to hear how they work – and this is absolutely crucial. We will not succeed in our climate objectives, and Europe will not succeed in its goals unless carbon capture and storage are used on a very large scale. So this is definitely an important debate. But I also have with me that the times I talk to my colleagues in Europe, they are still concerned that Norway should be a predictable and stable supplier of gas. There is an important support bar in many of these countries’ power systems, and I believe that Norway should still be. In addition, I think it's worth mentioning that you think about this – it's not like you have your head in the sand and don't see what's waiting for us any longer, in the future. The same applies to the industry itself here in Norway. When they set ambitious climate targets for themselves and their work and say they're going to be at net zero in 2050, it's precisely because they see that there will be a competitive advantage and something that will be necessary in 2050, when we're going to have cut massive emissions. So there's a lot of positive development going on. We are in favour of this from Norway, we must support what is happening in Europe and be an active partner in the climate policy we are fortunately in. I have at least very much faith that it is through such kind of cooperation that we have the greatest chance of success, and I am going to work for that too as the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1799	The debate on substance is then closed. 6ths over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1811	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1823	Since the Committee was consulted on the adoption of the proposal for a representative, the President naturally considered that the wording of the draft representative was useful as a form of decision. That is to say: «The Government is asked to submit without delay proposals for amendments to the provisions of the People's Rights Act on the right to daily allowances, paragraphs 4-10, or to clarify in a regulation or otherwise that victims of trafficking in human beings and crime at work are exempt from the waiting time provisions of the provisions of the People's Rights Law on the right to daily allowances in paragraphs 4-10.» With that precision, there will be a vote over the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1847	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to establish a certification scheme for petroleum producers based on best practice in the market, in line with the emission reduction targets already set by the Norwegian petroleum industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1878	Alternatively, between the recommendation and proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take an international initiative in an agreement with other oil producing countries to promote conversion and to limit the production of oil and gas.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1902	In the course of the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. Proposal No. 7 and 8 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend the Petroleum Act so as not to allow rights-based access to extensions beyond the time of the extraction permit, and that, in the assessment of extensions, an assessment of greenhouse gas emissions should be taken into account, and not only purely economic considerations.’» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the expansion of the Johan Castberg field in the Barents Sea.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1928	Proposal No. 3–6, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for Equinor ASA to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 pst. by 2030 compared to 1990 levels.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests that Equinor ASA have similar targets for cutting its own greenhouse gas emissions also for activities outside Norway, which they are too cut in the emissions on Norwegian base.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan leading to zero emissions from the petroleum sector by 2035, by 2040 at the latest. The size request that the plan be submitted to Stortinget in an appropriate manner by the end of 2020 at the latest.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to grant any more permits to search for fossil energy on a Norwegian base.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1962	Proposal No. 2, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come to Stortinget with a plan to supply the Johan Castberg field with renewable energy. The plan shall be submitted at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2021.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1979	Proposal No. 9, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to the recommendations and assessments of the Climate Change Risk Committee and to provide a comprehensive report on the matter during 2020.’ The Labour Party, the Greens and Reds have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e1999	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2004	President! I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2009	Then the result is 46 votes against the proposal and 41 votes against the proposal. That is why the proposal is not adopted. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to file a case on the landing of the oil from the Johan Castberg field for Stortinget. This matter shall be submitted at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2020.’.» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2035	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2054	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. Proposal No. 1 changed during the debate and sounds now: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Norwegian base has a capacity of 3 GW sea wind by 2030.’ Proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking to start work on the establishment of a State Investment Fund for Liquid Marine Winds with the following premises: (a) to ensure the rapid development and development of liquid sea wind technologies to establish a domestic market facilitating the development of a new export industry; (b) to include the social partners in order to ensure orderly working conditions and to build this on the knowledge of suppliers and oil industry; (c) to establish a comprehensive support and tax regime ensuring that favourable support schemes during the start-up phase are paid back to the Community; (d) to develop comprehensive national plans and thorough concession processes ensuring that no liquid sea wind is being developed in areas where significant environmental impacts will be encountered; (e) to contribute energy production from liquid marine wind to a Norwegian low-carbon society and to the development of new, environmentally friendly mainland industry.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2078	Proposal No. 5 and 6 from Red. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to present its own forecast of sea winds as soon as possible, taking into account, inter alia, industrial and industrial developments and environmental and fisheries considerations.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking to include the development, production and export of liquid sea wind technologies and industrial products in its work on measures for the Norwegian supplier industry as soon as possible due to the effects of the corona pandemic and the fall in oil price and demand.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2102	Proposal No. 7, from the Environmental Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a bottom-water wind strategy.’ The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2119	Proposal No. 8, from the Environmental Party of Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the planning of two full-scale wind turbines, one floating and one bottom-solid, in the oil and energy departments to be consulted, Utsira Nord and Südlige Nordsjö, with the aim of producing power from 2025.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2137	Proposal No. 3, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the government asks whether liquid sea wind should be subject to equivalent tax legislation to that of the petroleum industry under the petroleum tax legislation.’ The Central Party and the Red Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2160	We correct it, and the result is that 48 votes against the proposal and 39 votes against the proposal. That is why the proposal is not adopted. Proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 1 reads with the following correction: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Norwegian base has a capacity of 3 GW sea wind by 2030.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a target for Norway to have a 10 pst. market share of global turnover in the marine wind market and a turnover of 50 billion. kroner by 2030, and to facilitate this.» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2236	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2255	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop the planned expansion of NorthConnect.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2276	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2281	Then the result is 57 votes against the proposal and 30 votes against the proposal. That is why the proposal is not adopted. Proposal No. 6, from the Environmental Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that Statnett acquires the ownership of NorthConnect, as requested by the current owners, in order to ensure that the cable can be built as quickly as possible and thereby contribute to emission reduction, increased power exchange and market development for renewable energy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2298	Proposal No. 4, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a constitutional assessment of any accession to the EU’s fourth energy market package.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2315	Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to refuse concession requests for the construction of foreign tables that will contribute to higher electricity prices for people and industry in Norway.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2333	Proposal No. 5 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the EU to take initiatives to ensure that NorthConnect is removed from the EU list of projects of common interest [[PCI list]] Red is in favour of the proposal. The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2352	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to reject a request from NorthConnect for a works concession, foreign concession and exemptions from EEA legislation to build power cables between Norway and the United Kingdom.’ Red is in favour of the proposal. The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2378	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2392	President! I'm sorry, but we voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2397	Do you mean that SV should have voiced against?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2402	No, we should vote in favour. SV now voted against because I did. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2407	It is dangerous to trust too much in one When we've corrected it, we're going to have 63 votes for the recommendation and 24 votes for the recommendation. - The recommendation has been accepted. Case No. 6 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-23.ana.ud91e2442	Thus, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
