ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e78	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Svein Roald Hansen from 12 June to 19 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Siv Henriette Jacobsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e98	Siv Henriette Jacobsen is present and will take the seat. The representative of Himanshu Gulati will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e105	It is a pleasure to promote a proposal for a representative on behalf of the board of directors Silje Hämdal, Bård Hoksrud, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Terje Halleland, Erlend Wiborg, Roy Steffensen and myself on securing the income base for the horse sport in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e110	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e115	On behalf of Red, I would like to propose advances to the unemployed who have not received the money they are entitled to. Since the proposal concerns a matter of a solution for those who have not received the money they should have had in the first half of June, and it is urgent, I would like it to be dealt with in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e122	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e127	On behalf of SV's depositors Freddy André Hövstegård, Nicholas Wilkinson and Karin Andersen, I would like to make a proposal to prevent ethnic profiling from the police. The second proposal I would like to make is that of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself to secure local police in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e134	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e140	On behalf of Per Olaf Lundtägen, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Siv Mossleth and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a strong strengthening of the efforts towards people with serious disorders and mental disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e145	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will draw attention to the fact that the cases are No. 3, 10 and 11 on today's maps have not been out in the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Rules of Procedure § 46. However, the President will propose that matters be dealt with. No objections have been raised — and it is deemed to have been adopted. Case No. 1 and 2 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e181	The cases relate to Act No. 2 and Act No. 132. No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e200	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes, the Red Party 5 minutes and the members of the Government 5 minutes. In addition, there will be an opportunity to reply to comments from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e207	Let me start by thanking you for the cooperation between a large number of parties in Stortinget who got good solutions in this matter. The oil industry has been in demanding times for a long time. The combination of an oil price war between Russia and Saudi Arabia, which has now fortunately been controlled, corona and the closure of society, where demand fell, has led to a collapse in the oil price. Fortunately, the oil price has moved upwards, but it is far away from the level that is desirable. Oil industry is the second most important industry in Norway. It is estimated that the number of people employed in the industry and those related to the industry is over 200,000. There is no other industry in the country that has the kind of earnings you see here. In Stortinget in the last few months, we've had the pleasure of using oil money, to which this industry has contributed, to get us through the crisis we're in the middle of. For the districts, the industry is incredibly important. Over the past few weeks, I have even had the pleasure of visiting both Stord and Verdal, and have looked closely at the importance of the oil industry. It's about all the jobs in the supplier industry. That is what has been the aim of this case – to ensure that oil companies have liquidity and framework conditions that allow large projects to be started and demand services and supplies from the supplier industry. When I was at Leirvik, I got to meet employees there. I got to see parts of the Hod platform. You wait there for a decision in Stortinget to get that project going. Kværner Stord is waiting for this decision to come, so that they are guaranteed commissions in their order books in the years to come. Without the decision the Stortinget makes today, Kværner Verdal could have been closed next summer. It was therefore important to arrive at this solution, which ensures Norway’s main industry and industry. Did we get the results we wanted? Yes. It did not take long for Aker BP to be out and signaled that the construction of the Hod platform should be started. Yesterday we got the happy news that NOAKA is now going to be put into process. We're talking about a 50-60-billion-dollar project here. kr. This means tens of thousands of jobs around Norway. There have been many discussions in the Committee — whether direct expenditure should be included in company taxes, the duration of this temporary arrangement and the time-limit, on negative forward taxes, which are simply made to ensure that smaller companies cooperate with the larger ones. In order for them to also contribute and participate in these projects, it is important that they also have liquidity. It is essentially a matter of securing jobs in Norway. Decisions have also been taken and comments have been made that point forward – on how to secure green technology and how Norway should move towards new markets. Then it's important to remember that Norwegian cap makes the world's petroleum industry greener. We know that Norwegian cap has half of the emissions of what is the world average per barrel of oil produced. When we look at the Johan Sverdrup platform, we're down to 0.7 kilos per barrel of oil. This package allows oil companies to continue this work and ensures revenue for the welfare community. It ensures employment around the whole country, and it ensures living districts, where many have now kept their breath for what the Storting would adopt. When I was at a conference at Stord, the hotel director made a statement saying how important the oil industry was to the hotel, to all the companies, the business community, and that the ring-fence of this industry ensured living businesses. This is one of the most important issues that Stortinget has dealt with this year. I am very pleased with the result and that we are now securing jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e232	Today, we are dealing with a crisis package to save industrial jobs in the oil and gas sectors, and there is a wide range of them. That's good for the cause. On Tuesday I visited Rosenberg in Stavanger and Aker in Eigersund, where what we have for treatment today has meaning for the jobs ahead. At Rosenberg, they told them that they have contracts for the past 2022, while Aker Egersund told them that they are going to meet quite tough times – not least in 2021 – but that they are hoping that the money that is now being released can contribute to giving the more assignments. Nearly 320,000 Nordics are either out of work or out of work, and very much of what we have done here on March 12th, has been about as few jobs as possible being lost. Now tens of thousands of jobs were threatened in Norway's largest and most important industry, namely the oil and gas industry, as a result, among others. Coronacrise and low oil prices. It was therefore necessary for the community to make a contribution to ensuring that families in Stord, Verdal, Eigersund and many other places in Norway can pay their bills. For this reason, the Labour Party has demanded and achieved a number of requirements that strengthen the Norwegian supplier industry's ability to obtain a job when these funds are to be used. Supply security, Norwegian HMS standard and the use of skilled workers and apprentices shall be added to the emphasis. An agreement shall be concluded between the social partners on a number of permanent occupations in industry, the recruitment of apprentices and the long-term development of the environment of competence, which may also have a transfer value for renewable industries. The Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate will receive more funds and we finally establish that the Veidens will have a landing terminal and that the government will submit proposals for it to fall within the temporary changes in the petroleum tax regime or the corresponding instrument. I hear voices that are concerned that we should now make Norway more oil dependent. But the way to the renewable society is through the competence of the oil and industrial worker. Firstly, we have known for a long time that oil and gas production will decline in the future and that demand for oil and gas will be reduced because renewable energy sources will take over more fully. The changes in the tax regime for the oil industry do not change that. What this is about is how fast the conversion is. What we are discussing in the tax package is that the change can be controlled, without great unemployment and without any risk of loss of competence. And that's my next point -- that a too steep drop in the activity of the oil and gas industry would cut bones under important industrial environments to develop new, viable solutions. Thirdly, the industry is not a tool that a single one can turn on and off. Industry requires large investments in plant and equipment. Professionals and engineers must have up-to-date competence. If large industrial enterprises first closed down, the way back is too long and the investments are large. The crisis package we are discussing now, according to the Labour Party's demands, also has several important measures to speed up the development of a more climate-friendly industry in Norway. Several of the projects that can now be realised are projects for the development of floating sea winds or for the electrification of Norwegian platforms. It was important for the Workers' Party also to raise the demands for emissions from Norwegian socket. Industry shall submit a plan to reduce emissions from Norwegian socket by 50 pst. by 2030 compared to 2005. This ensures that part of the money released is also used to accelerate climate-friendly investment. We also set new requirements for zero and low emission solutions for offshore vessels in petroleum production, and we have achieved a full review of the tax system to ensure a balance between investment in renewable energy and investment in oil and gas. This crisis package is an outstretched hand to our industrial workers in the middle of a crisis. Now the arrow is pointing to the industry itself. We're going to follow them very closely. It is not by chance that we have called for an evaluation of the employment effects of 2023. The company has to deliver, otherwise these tax changes have little legitimacy. When companies like Equinor and Aker are now receiving community support to save tens of thousands of industrial workplaces in Norway, they must also return to the community. They have to create jobs and cut emissions. They have to show that they're on the key to taking Norway through the green shift, and that they're willing to do it. Now, at least they can't owe it that there's not enough money for it. I finally take up the suggestions Worker Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e255	The representative of Hadia Tajik has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e260	I am very pleased that we were able to reach a broad settlement in this matter – a settlement that gives the oil industry, the supplier industry and those who believe in a green shift, the opportunity to realise many major and important projects. First of all, we release liquidity for the oil companies. I want to continue where the representative Tajik left off, saying that the pressure now lies very clearly on the large operators to deliver good projects – and that is what they have started. They've launched a resumption of the Hod field, and they've talked about the NOAKA field coming. These are big projects that will have huge ring-effects in District Norway and around. I hear that the two previous speakers – my co-representatives – have been around talking to the supplier industry off the coast. I took the trip into the woods and talked to the Kongsberg industry. And there this is a really big topic. FMC, for example, has a very strong belief that what's now happening can trigger new activity. So this applies to the whole country. It's not just the coast; it's the whole country. The supplier industry is located around, in the most incredible places. They deliver amazing technology that can also be used in the green shift. We now supply the petroleum companies with a liquidity of 115 billion. kr for the years 2020 and 2021. Because we ended up on a 24 pst free income, the government has a negative proceeds of 8 billion. kr, but that's if you think nothing happens. It's based on the world standing still. I think that the activity that this will trigger will give the state of Norway huge tax revenues for many, many years to come and secure the welfare society in a completely different way than if we had ended up in a situation where there was division or paralysis of action in the Storting. Then we could have been in a situation where thousands of jobs were unsafe, and where the oil industry did not know exactly what the politicians thought about them. Now we say clearly from here: Yes, they are given confidence, but they are also given confidence to help us take Norway in a more climate-friendly and greener direction, because the competence of these companies is the very foundation of the Norwegian development of new technology – in sea wind, carbon capture, etc. I have great faith that the promises we have received in the somewhat exciting round we had to get this matter in place will be fulfilled. That is why there is a great deal of pressure on industry, oil companies and Norwegian industry to help us realize what we have now agreed on. We've agreed a lot. The fact that we're increasing our income to 24 pst is probably the most important thing to trigger investment. But there are also other things, such as negative forward tax and the reduction of a green sample to look at new technologies and new investments. We have also looked at emission reduction requirements on the 50 pst cap. by 2030. All of this is an important point that goes into the broad consensus we now have in Stortingen on this matter. That there is a majority from the Progress Party, via the government parties, to the Workers' Party and the Center Party, shows that almost whatever happens in the coming elections, this is a broad consensus on which we can rely, which gives confidence to the oil companies, and which gives Norwegian workers, not least, the opportunity to continue working in strong technology companies in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e277	The centre party is very pleased with the broad agreement we have now reached on a deferred tax to the oil industry, which allows one to obtain liquidity and get started on projects that are important to many. We believe it is a strength that the reconciliation is as broad as it is. It also makes it more difficult to break up such a settlement later, but that the agreement stands out well. This has become a debate with many stencils, and I see that in the various commentary columns it is very much about subsidies to the oil industry. I think it's worth mentioning, at least, that there's hardly any other private industry in Norway that indirectly and directly employs as many people as this industry does. It's very important to the whole country. It's also worth mentioning that, in the mid-1990s, while we didn't have a penny in any oil fund, today we have 10,000 billion in an oil fund, and that's what this industry has contributed to. And there's a lot of the capital that this industry has contributed to, which is also going to be used to invest in green industries. So a little bit more recognition for the job that those who have worked in this industry have done, could be in their place today. That's indicative of many of us, I think, we have stories we can tell from the industry. It says something about this industry being around the country. I'm not very concerned about what we're passing on to the oil companies, but I'm incredibly concerned about what we're passing on to the supplier industry, because it's so important to so many places around the country. My story is all about Kværner Verdal, which is the largest private workplace in Trøndelag, and which employs 750 people directly on the yard. But in Verdal Industrial Park there are 3,200 pieces, and it's an entire community in Inherred and in Verdal that depends on those jobs. Their relief when this agreement was made clear is almost impossible to describe. We also look at Stord, at Leirvik, at Tranby – and many, many other places around the country. So it's not the oil industry this is really about; it's the supplier industry. These are the ones that now need to be secured in a very difficult situation. It is clear that there are some expectations of the oil companies after such a settlement. It's the expectation that Hod would come. It came, and they were very relieved in Trundellag, and also in Leirvik, I believe, because they are also given commission. Then comes NOAKA. I think that's also very important. There has been mild disagreement between operators in order to coordinate the development, both technically and financially, but when they do, and when they announce that it will come, it will be important. These are field extensions – there are many small installations in question – that fit as a hand in gloves for the Norwegian supplier industry. We can talk as much as we want to ensure contract strategies, but this is a development that is as designed for the Norwegian supplier industry – that is exactly the competence, the specialisation, the technology that the Norwegian supplier industry has. There are also some expectations to the oil companies regarding Lake Sandness, that they also contribute to future activity, and that they also take very seriously what is in the position to contribute to ring-fence in Finnmark through a plan for Veidnes. That project deserves to be reviewed and that there will be a new drive in the work to realize it. I'm not going to hide that the center part initially wanted a slightly different type of solution. That's because we thought that, in sum, it would be more reasonable for society, so-called proven neutral, and that would therefore be an advantage. We nevertheless think that it was of great value for us to enter into a settlement that was as wide as the one we are to deal with today. It is also worth mentioning the green measures that lie in the setting, as regards both carbon capture and storage, well popping, emissions target and not least a Green Investment sample to look at the possibility of arranging tax incentives for other green value chains in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e300	The proposals that the majority are behind today are one of the most irresponsible I have seen in Norwegian policy. Today, the majority adopts a package of aid to the oil industry involving a large tax cut – 8 billion. kr, perhaps more – without any clear obligations on jobs in Norway, without any obligation to cut greenhouse gas emissions or to change. It's worth bringing the rug here. This spring, several things have hit the oil industry at once – global oil spills around the world, offers are too big, prices are being pushed down. At the same time, there is a brake on demand, not only because of the coronary apathy, but also because the world is changing the energy market and has a change of pace. The coronary apathy and the anti-infection measures also hit the oil and slowed down the activity. It is clear that this affects the supplier industry. When the oil price falls, we see how oil dependent Norway is. So multiple parts here say that the conversion is going to be too abrupt. But this has been notified for a long time. We have known that this conversion would happen. That is why it is a paradox, I believe, that the bulk of the population meets this announced shift and the fall in investment with a policy that strengthens oil dependence, rather than an active industrial policy that gives new assignments to the supply industry for the future. The majority of the population today adopts unconditional tax cuts. They're increasing the country's risk, and we don't know what's going to be the full consequences of these changes. This is how the majority of the population makes the same mistake that the majority of people in this house have made for a long time – they bet on one horse and link the state and the community's fate even closer to that horse. But the conversion and the investment fall is going to come back. It'll force itself forward. It will not be any easier in 2025 or 2027 to succeed in that change, rather on the contrary, because then other countries have jerked off and put on the leadership jersey in new industries. The question arises as to whether the bulk of the population in 2025 or 2027 would be able to withstand the pressure that will undoubtedly be brought about by new tax cuts, if new, better conditions. When the bulk of the population here today says yes to a support package for the oil, why aren't they going to do it the next time? Several of the representatives before me have talked about the green shift, about CCS and about sea wind. But unfortunately, what's adopted here is not a package for green industry, no matter how much green you're irritating in the speeches from this pulpit. It's a support package, a subsidy package for the oil. While the oil industry is getting significantly better framework conditions than other land-based industries, the new industries, the ones we're going to live on in the future, the hands tied, they're being held back in the evolution they're on the threshold of. We could have chosen to pursue an active industrial policy. We could have given direct assignments to the shipyards in green shipping. We could have given better tax conditions for sea wind and started that industrial venture. We could have secured faster progress for carbon capture, as both the NHO and the LO ask for. We could have realized hydrogen infrastructure. The other countries around us are on the move. Germany recently presented its hydrogen strategy. They are building the industry now — the new jobs, what those countries will live on in the future — while we are losing competition. Not least, and worst of all, the supplier industry is losing competition. Size plural chooses the winner here. They target the tax system in order to realise entirely concrete developments on a Norwegian base, without demands for jobs or ring-effects, such as on Veidnes in Finnmark – there is no majority for landing in Finnmark, on Veidnes, with the package here today, despite the fact that the Workers Party and the Centre have celebrated it in the media. They should be more honest, and SV thinks we should have used the opportunity to invest in green industry and the future. I address the proposals that SV has alone, and the proposals we have with the Green and Red Environmental Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e323	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e328	On Monday, emissions for Norway came for 2019, and greenhouse gas emissions fell by 2 pst, for the fourth consecutive year. Norway is a small market, but there are some interesting signs of those numbers. Among other things, road traffic emissions fell by 7.7 pst in 2019. in Norway. The emissions from aviation, maritime and civil engineering went down by 6,5 pst. in Norway. We are a small market, but we are in the forefront of reducing emissions in the transport sector. In meeting the corona epidemic and when one is about to get out of it, Germany has dramatically increased its support for the purchase of electric cars. France also sets new, ambitious targets for the sale of electric cars. In February, Norway increased our ambitions within the Paris Agreement and reported to the United Nations that we should cut our emissions by 50 pst. by 2030. The EU will also strengthen its objectives in September this year. We are in the midst of a climate crisis, and the world must cut its emissions and its consumption of oil and gas dramatically in the years ahead. In meeting a price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia and also a dramatic fall in demand due to the coronary apathy, the Left agrees that we need to have our own measures for the petroleum sector, but we believe that the government's proposal was a balanced proposal, which released liquidity to 100 billion. kr for oil companies, which were also limited in time and with an exemption of 10 pst. It would provide support for conversion, but also support for new investments, along with a green package of measures of 3.6 billion. kr, which is also in the phase 3 case provided by the government. I'm going to admit that in the negotiations with the other parties, the Left has largely viewed it as its task to hold back the income. Now when it goes up to 24 p.m., there's a grant and a tax relief for the oil companies of 8 billion. kr. Whether there are funds that will come back to the state is only the future that will show, but there is no doubt that the risk to the state is increasing in future projects, by the fact that the balance sheet price the companies will require to be profitable will be much lower than the balance sheet price the country will need for this to be profitable for the country. There are some decisions in this consensus that we are well pleased with, in particular that together with the industry we are going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50 pst. by 2030, compared to 2005. That's a very ambitious goal. It's almost like it's hard to see that it's possible to reach. To achieve this, we need to take immediate action. We need to cooperate with the industry, we need to use injunctions, we need to use bans, we need to use subsidies, we need to use the ownership of the country, for example. with clear orders to the board in Petoro, so that we can reduce by 50 pst. towards 2030. By doing so, by bringing down those emissions, we are in favour of our greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, but we must do so with an innovation and innovation that will enable this to be effective far beyond the borders of Norway. It is a favourable tax regime for the petroleum sector that the Stortinge adopts today. This will increase activity and will increase activity in the supplier industry, but with the major changes facing the world – we need to achieve our climate goals, not only in Norway but also globally – this decision does not make it possible for us to put the need for the green transition that Norway and the world must undergo. It is actually the largest and best support we can give to the Norwegian supplier industry as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e343	Two months ago, we were in a low oil price situation due to a large fall in demand and high competition between large oil producing countries. This was a situation in which investments that were important for the important Norwegian supplier industry were put on hold. We've all known that the investments on the Norwegian base were going down, and that Norway has to go through a conversion, and as things looked two months ago, that curve was going to be too steep, and the fall was going to be too hard. In that situation, the industry asked for increased liquidity and for one to have the ability to carry out the investments that were required to wait. I believe that the government's proposal delivered on it. One made up for direct depreciation and yet 10 pst. free income. That would give you approx. 100 B.C.E. kr in better liquidity because one shifted the tax bill for the company so that one had the opportunity to take the important investments already made but was now waiting. It was a solution that would give the state a total of 14 to 15 billion. kr more in tax revenue, as the Ministry of Finance assumes, but which would give a corresponding relief to the same company because a transfer of tax burden to its later life course. The Christian People's Party thought it was a good suggestion. Then I believe that after this spring there is a sort of before and after in the debate in Norwegian oil policy. Until now, all the debates we have had in this Chamber on the oil tax agenda have been marked by the need for stable framework conditions. If the framework conditions are established and the state's job is to ensure that they are resilient, the industry shall decide which investment makes sense within that regime. That's the one thing that I think is changed after this spring. The second thing is that it's the first time Norway is involved in major declines in our production. There shall be 300000 fewer barrels on the Norwegian base. This is not a normal situation, and the question of when we're coming back here, or if we ever come back, I think I'm hovering. The Christian People's Party believed that the government's contribution to tax changes was good. But we're in a minority government, and now we've negotiated, and we've come up with a whole consensus. It is an important value in a matter that is so important to large parts of the Norwegian supplier industry and to large parts of the Norwegian economy. The contract that is currently in progress, adds a longer time horizon to the temporary changes, a more generous free income and that we are now going from, for example, that one could pledge the claims to the state, to a negative forward tax, which means that even the companies that even with a claim on the state do not get money from the bank, can now be paid out their negative forward tax at the time we are in. The size has also become a few about a number of welcome decisions that I think are important, and that help to bring about the unity that lies. Some of the most important things are that there should be an evaluation of the employment impact of these measures, which also allows it to see if it is delivered on what has been said here. In addition, the Storting also decided to pump up the ambition that the industry itself presented early this year about the size of the cut and the degree of conversion this industry will undergo. Early this year, the industry said she had to make 40 pst. spillage. So one of the conditions, including that the framework conditions, had to be tough. Now we're saying one is required to do 50 pst. It's an ambitious figure to be able to do it by 2030, and there's also a lot of the key here for how we're going to cope with the transition that's also important for the width of Norwegian business. The company gets a lot of responsibility when a company now implements such big changes as to deliver to the projects the industry itself has moved forward and pointed to. The conversion of this industry is about to come. Now there is a broad majority that says something about how we want to fix in a temporary situation, which has been difficult and demanding. In the debate before me, there are many people who have shown that one has been on the go – each one has traveled around. I think that in a changed diet there are many good examples to show in Norway, for example. in Flekkefjord, with the electricjelane, which now electrifies the platforms that stand around Johan Sverdrup – or is it Johan Castberg, I was now somewhat in doubt. They are at least around the platforms and provide the basis for technologies that are exported to large parts of Germany, which also go through the same electrification, but on land. It gives hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e359	I am absolutely sure that no one in this Chamber is surprised that the Greens are negative about oil subsidies, but I am uncertain as to whether the extent of this matter we are dealing with here today has fallen completely among politicians and journalists. Today, we're going to make one of the most important climate decisions in our country. The majority's proposals on major tax reliefs and subsidies to the oil industry will be a dramatic setback in Norwegian climate policy. When the majority adopts this later today, Norway makes a policy choice. We're going backwards out of the corona crisis – like Ludvig. We are setting the course straight into a new economic downturn, and we are instructing Norwegian taxpayers to finance increased greenhouse gas emissions and old-fashioned solutions. It is essentially close to drawing parallels to the UK coal industry, which was once a central driving force during the industrial revolution, but which ended up as an unprofitable and out of date subsidy hatch. The Norwegian petroleum industry is not there yet, but that is what we are going to do if we assume that climate policy is internationally successful. The agreement between the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right is not only climate-damaging, it will create unfair discrimination between different industries and different people in a time of crisis. Enterprises involved in culture, travel, experiences and much else are on the brink of collapse. People fight to keep their businesses floating. People lose their night sleep because they can lose their job tomorrow. There are many companies that could have benefited greatly from predictable tax cuts that will last for years, but only the oil industry is receiving such benefits. Cash support, VAT cut and temporary compensation do not provide the same effect and predictability in order to make major investments in the future. The tax changes that the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Advance Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right are adopting here today are particularly serious because they are so investment-distorting. Where corona measures aimed at other industries are an emergency aid for companies to survive here and now, aid for petroleum is tailor-made to trigger long-term investment. This is precisely the direction of investment that forms tomorrow's Norway. This process within the Financial Committee has shown that Norway is in a vicious circle of oil dependence. We're so dependent on oil that we're willing to do almost anything to keep the level of investment in old solutions up. For many decades, the oil industry has had to have stable and predictable framework conditions. It was perhaps a practical motto because it was sufficient, but when the price collapsed, suddenly such principles were just broken. What happens next time the oil price drops? It is then probably due to a climate policy that provides a permanent reduction in demand. What does Norway do? Should the current tax advantages be extended by five new years? Should we lower the tax even more? Today’s decision creates a precedent where Norway gradually paints itself into a corner as the oil age approaches the end – where each oil price wave bottom meets with new subsidies, and where each new fossil investment binds us and our children to the mast for decades to come. Therefore, on behalf of the Greens, I would like to make a clear warning to the Stortinget today. We're going to repent deeply if, at the start of the 2020s, we choose to solve any economic crisis with large investments in oil and gas, based on Equinor's hopeful, high future oil prices. We have to work hard to change the decisions made today. As most people in this room know, the EU is our most important gas market. The head of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, said earlier this spring that we must not fall back to old, polluting habits after the Korona crisis. German Chancellor Angela Merkel says we need a green recovery out of the crisis. EU plans for a green deal to phase out fossil energy can be accelerated because the Korona crisis has increased the scope for political governance. However, in Norway, this space of action is used to control the country in black and grey directions. The 2020 is the decade when we're going to change. It's too late to argue that we're going to invest in fossil energy now to create green jobs once in the future. That argument was valid 20 years ago. Now we have come to a point where we have to end with fossil investments. Listening to the Right, the Workers' Party and the Centre describe the consensus as a prerequisite for a green shift – it is with respect to report a surrealistic experience. It's a myth that you can rest in shape, it's a myth that you can eat thin, and it's a myth that a lot of fossil investment creates a renewable society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e380	Red supports the struggles of trade unions to secure jobs, to preserve jobs and thus to build the environment-friendly industry of the future. What has happened is the market-driven crash that Red has long warned against, where oil prices and investment in free fall threaten jobs, without building up new industries to take over. We have three lost decades behind us where we have known that the oil industry needs to be transformed in the face of a climate crisis, but have not initiated an active industrial policy to bring it about. It is irresponsible climate policy and industrial laxity. Governments of different colors have hidden behind phrases about business neutrality while depriving themselves of the responsibility for developing the country's industry. They have believed that the market is cleaning up – which is ironic, since it was a policy that built up the Norwegian oil industry and the Norwegian supplier industry, and which made Norway not only a commodity supplier but also built its own industry, with world-leading expertise today. That's why it was a strategic mistake when the Workers' Party part-privatized Statoil and sold one third of the company to commercial banks on Wall Street – not just because we lost 200 billion. kr on the investment in the United States, but also because we gave up Statoil, as the industrial policy locomotive it was, and instead failed to comply with the Company's share law. Thus, the Labour Party, the Right and the others have put us in a situation – a situation in which the Storting must adopt changes in the tax system in the hope that it will make our own oil company make investments that we could have made if we had full control of the company, which we had until the year 2000. We have forgotten our proud industrial history, and with that we fail the future. But the seriousness of the climate crisis requires state industrial construction to comeback. It goes in red for, because we know that green industry is not created overnight, and that the way to green conversion does not go through industrial death. Tomorrow's industry is based on the shoulders of today's industry and on the knowledge and competence of the industrial workers at Stord, in Verdal, in Egersund, in Lake Sandness, to name a few. For Red, it is no alternative to let workers take the cost of the coronary crisis or the climate crisis. The crisis we are in now can lead to several thousand unemployed, local communities losing cornerstones, and to the loss of skills needed in the green shift. Therefore, Red has proposed that the billions needed to fill the order books in the next few years should be provided by the State, while speeding up the green industry with venture capital and long-term ownership. We have also proposed taking Equinor off the stock exchange, so that the company can become the industrial locomotive that it was and that we need here at home. We have proposed 50 billion. kr in an investment fund to replace coronated investments in oil – crown for crown – with government tasks directed towards the supplier industry. We have also proposed that parts of the oil fund be invested in new industries in Norway. None of this has received a majority in Stortinget. It's a shame, but it's not surprising. Red was also willing to support changes in oil taxes for investments carried out over the next two years. For us, LO’s claim to the package was absolutely crucial, namely that tax changes must be accompanied by conditions, that commissions should go to the Norwegian supplier industry, and that dividends should be stopped. But this has not been delivered by the majority, and therefore Red cannot support the whole package. Now the struggle is to ensure that the crisis package does not become a gift package to the directors of oil companies, but ensures jobs, competence and conversion. A community that is now fighting is Lake Sandness, where Aker Solutions has decided to shut down the yard. Here, the Storting can and must take responsibility. If they get assignments, they will survive. To this end, the Red supports the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the decision to shut down the production plant on the beaches of Lake Sandness is reversed.’ With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e413	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e418	Petroleum taxes have worked well over time. The companies have gained our common natural resources against paying high taxes on profits. This means that the state covers most of the loss when the oil price is low, but also that we have taken a large part of the revenue when the oil price is high. The tax system has been investment-friendly, and it has helped create thousands of jobs across the country. We are now in an extraordinary situation of high uncertainty, and we do not know how long it will last. Companies have notified that planned projects are at risk of exposure. It would have a significant negative impact on the supply industry, on local communities, on workplaces and valuable competences. Right now we have no jobs to lose. It has been expected for a long time that the investments on the Norwegian base would gradually decline. But we have to avoid the fall getting too steep and too deep, and we have to take care of skills and jobs, which we also need for the green shift. This is why the government proposes temporary changes to the petroleum tax. The changes would result in past deductions, so that the tax payment is deferred and the liquidity of companies is improved. The Government Parties have now agreed with the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre on adjustments to the proposal. The consensus creates predictability and implies inter alia: that companies can be deducted immediately from the investment costs of the special tax base and that the revenue is set at 24 pst. The proposal is temporary and limited in time. At the same time, the corporate tax is fixed, and it has been crucial for me. It is a fundamental principle that corporate tax should be equal for all industries, including the petroleum industry. In total, it is estimated that the changes add liquidity to the petroleum companies of approximately 115 billion. kr for the years 2020 and 2021. The changes will also improve the profitability of post-tax investments. However, I would point out that the aim of the proposal is not to motivate unprofitable investments, but that profitable investments can be carried out as planned before the outbreak of the coronavirus. Over time, it is estimated that the proposal will provide a total tax relief for the industry of about 8 billion. kr. The estimates are uncertain and will depend on the investments of the companies, how they evolve. These changes are also followed up by measures contributing to the green shift. It's been important for the government, and I'm glad it's important for the Storting. The Government has proposed increased appropriations for Enova, research and development, innovation and green shipping. In addition, the parties agree that the government, together with the industry, will draw up a plan to reduce emissions on Norwegian pst by 50 pst. by 2030. A green investment sample shall be set up and proposals for new requirements for zero and low-emission solutions for offshore vessels shall be submitted, and well study shall be prioritised in strategic development. Overall, the changes are balanced. They will meet the industry well and will help keep the activity up in the supplier industry. It will create jobs throughout Norway, maintain skills in industry and contribute to a green renewal of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e439	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e444	When the government put forward a crisis package for aviation, they made a very clear definition of dividend payments and bonus payments. We also know that in a number of neighbouring countries and in crisis packages from the EU, dividends are conditional. There is also something that the Labour Party has proposed in connection with this matter, but we have not got a majority for it. I just want to ask, what's with the money that's being freed from these changes, which means that Right has opposed dividend constraints right here?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e449	I agree that when the state and the community deal with crisis packages, it is important that industry also shows moderation and restraint both in terms of dividends and in terms of bonuses. Then you can discuss whether this is a crisis package when it is due to last until 2027. These are good framework conditions that will help us to maintain jobs and value creation. Introducing a dividend ban for a year or two will only easily lead to a one-year or two postponement of the dividend. Companies also rely on private investors investing in companies, and of course they also depend on getting a return on the investments they make.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e454	The fact that the crisis package lasts for several years is not an argument against yield limits. If it were true, as the Council of State says, that if one had limited it to a few years, it would have been easier to introduce a profit cut-off, I suppose the government party would have included it in its proposal. Their proposal had a greater time limit than it has when it has been negotiated here at Stortinget. So I almost have to ask again: in the context of the aviation crisis package, it was possible to put a formal limitation on dividends and bonus payments. One saw the meaning of it, the value of it. The money was to go to what they were actually going to do, and it also strengthened the legitimacy of that system. This is about releasing billions of dollars, and the government party doesn't want to impose any formal limits on dividends or bonus payments. Why doesn't one want to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e459	Let me remind you that what we're doing now is not to contribute a subsidy to the oil companies, but what we're doing is to change the tax system, so that companies and companies can now directly spend their investments this year one in the special tax. We also make some other changes to create better framework conditions for the petroleum industry. But you have to discuss what the purpose of such a dividend limit is. If you were to impose a dividend limit this year, I think some companies would postpone the dividend by one year, and then the question is, what is what you actually achieved? Of course, the companies to invest in Norwegian capital and create jobs are also interested in getting a return on their money when investing in Norwegian capital to contribute to investments and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e466	In the proposal submitted by the Labour Party, it is a question of limiting the dividend payments in such a way that the money released by the tax changes is not able to make any profit. But it's clear that the companies have money beyond that, the companies are completely free to dispose of them as they please. If there are investors who want to deposit money, they will still have the opportunity to get a return on the money. What we want to limit is that the money that is released here, which I find there is a great deal of agreement about going to create jobs, is actually going to create jobs and not make rich shareholders richer. They're going to go to work, and they're not going to even pay dividends, maybe even out of the country, and so don't contribute to our country's value creation. I'll ask you one more time: with the framework that the Labour Party has set for dividends and limits, what's with the constraint that the Right cannot stand behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e475	We simply don't believe that it will work according to purpose. With such a frame-up, there is reason to believe that the dividend is actually only postponed for a few years, and that it will still be paid. We agree that when the state sets up with exceptionally good framework conditions, as we are now doing for the petroleum industry, we have a very clear and clear expectation that moderation will be shown. Several companies have now shown in practice that they do so, not because they have been required to do so, but because the company has an interest in maintaining liquidity, so that it has a robustness for future investments, and to secure and secure jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e481	There is no doubt that there have been major discussions in this case, and that the preferred model of the Progress Party would probably have been to use direct expenditure management also for company taxes. Instead, you choose to increase your income, which in reality means that it can cost the country billions of dollars. The government has had a violent opposition to doing something about corporate tax, and the argument that has been used is that one has been afraid that other industries would also demand this. In other cases, all taxes on the petroleum industry have been taken into account, for example: in the case of the lighter fusion system. My question is simply: when you talk about fear that other industries are also going to demand this, what other industries is what the Council of State sees for itself wants the petroleum tax return, where 78 psts are taxed. to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e488	That's not what this case is about, it's about we've had a corporate tax that's been pretty firm since 1992, and it's been going across industries, industries and businesses. We want to defend that, we want to keep that. This is about investment, about depreciation – whether it is related to impairment, or whether to have direct depreciation in the first year. I have registered that several organisations have felt the need to write a letter to Stortinget to say that they do not want to demand it. At the same time, there is a proposal in the Storting that we should look at taxes and tax systems for renewables, we have a discussion related to the supplier industry, and there are discussions related to hydropower. Some of the value of the Norwegian tax system is precisely that predictability – not that we negotiate the tax system with individual industries, but that the Stortinget takes responsibility for creating long-term and predictability. In the case of the lighter fusion system, it is not comparable. It's about operation, not about investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e495	There is no doubt that the petroleum industry has a special tax system and taxes far more than all other industries. Another argument that has been raised in the debate is the fear of unprofitable projects. We're talking about an industry that has contributed 4,000 billion. NOK to the Treasury, and using good management of the money, we now have a fund of over 10 000 billion. kr. For me and the Progress Party, it is a strange thought that the oil companies should have some interest in launching an unprofitable project. That's how the world is going to need oil in the future. Many fields that are in operation are going to go empty, and we need to keep building out. Then it's like the government approves all projects of under 20 billion. kr, and Stortinget is even inside and approves those over 20 billion. kr. What are the examples of unprofitable projects in the petroleum industry being launched by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e502	In this question, I think we agree. Of course, we're doing calculations where we can look at whether investments that are unprofitable before tax can be profitable after tax. We don't want to motivate for that. I agree with the representative that companies also have no interest in investing in projects that are unprofitable before tax. Of course, companies have an interest in investing in good projects that can contribute to value creation and return. I am confident that the companies will make the necessary assessments. What's our responsibility is to think about whether the tax system creates some unfortunate incentives. Then we also have to make an assessment of what it looks like before tax and after tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e507	‘By the end of October 2020 at the latest, the Government is asked to submit a legislative proposal for a solution to secure the landing terminal at Veidnes.’ Finnmark has experienced many disappointments in several areas over many years from the central government. Promises have not been made. Examples are universal fish that do not land and oil landings. It must not now happen that promises and hopes that Finnmark has in this case are not being kept. Will the Council of State ensure that the legislative proposal is promoted and that the work on landing to Vednes in the North Cape municipality is now being carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e516	I fully agree with the representative that you should be careful about creating expectations and making promises you cannot keep. For this reason, a majority of the Committee, the Party of Advances and the Government Parties, have also raised some concerns. It is precisely linked to the fact that the case has been previously assessed by both authorities and companies. We shall make the assessments requested by Stortinget. We have to look at, and the companies have to assess, whether the new framework conditions can contribute to the realisation of the company. But I have to be clear that there are also some questions that make this difficult. It is linked to both the ESA and the State aid regulation and also to the project itself. That is why we reserve the right to do so, precisely not to create hopes and make promises that you cannot be sure that you can fulfill.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e521	The Council of State said in its statement that the purpose of the tax changes is not to motivate unprofitable investments but to make profitable investments. But what the majority will adopt here today is the opposite, because that means that projects that are unprofitable before tax become profitable after tax, and that a largely investment-friendly regime has become even more investment-friendly with these changes. That's when the state that's going to sit with, and that's taking, the risk here -- we're at risk that the state is actually losing huge sums, while the oil companies are going in positive. The State will already lose tax revenue with the proposal that is on the table here and that the majority of the population will adopt. So my question to the Minister of Finance is, how will the government prevent further losses from being made with the changes that are being made now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e528	Let me just nuance a little bit. It is not that the state loses a lot of money on investments in the petroleum sector, rather, on the contrary, it is a story of how companies have created values and jobs and helped us to build a pension fund to benefit generations. What this proposal does is that it improves the profitability of post-tax investments, and it can help to actually realize some of the projects that companies have put on hold, which means that we secure jobs and value creation in Norway and not least maintain the skills we need for the green shift as well. Then it is quite right that the Ministry of Finance makes assessments to see what it looks like before tax and after tax, but the next question is how companies deal with it. I wonder whether companies will invest in projects that are unprofitable before tax, even if they become profitable afterwards, because the companies also make their demands for robustness and return on their investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e535	Taking into account the world’s history and oil history in Norway is a poor starting point for predicting what it will be like and how it will be, and especially when making significant changes to the framework conditions. What's on the table from the majority here really means turning to the tax system so that projects that have been waiting just because they've been unprofitable now become profitable after tax. What happens then is that the state is at risk. We're completely at the price of oil price developments as to whether we're going to get the money that the government's contributing, the investments in the development of these fields. The question then arises: how will the state and the government follow up the treatment of these oil projects that come from the oil companies to ensure that we get back the investments that we invest in the expansion of these fields? The oil companies will be able to earn, but the state is losing money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e542	Now I think there are several reasons why companies have put projects on hold. There is no doubt that both the fall in the oil price, the coronary crisis and the great uncertainty about how demand will develop over time have contributed to many projects being put on hold. The division of labour between the authorities and the companies is that we set the framework conditions, and the companies have to make the assessments. But of course, we assume that when a large majority creates predictable and good framework conditions, it will also contribute to investment, and we expect companies to contribute to cutting emissions. An important element of this agreement is the establishment of a plan to cut emissions by 50 pst. by 2030, so that there is investment both in the workplace and in the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e549	Former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch has had many wise reflections after his politically active time. Not least, he has talked a lot about the children's living conditions through Grandparents' climate action. Likewise, I hope it will be with Councillor Sanner that he will have a good opportunity to talk with the child-bearing community in the future. And see that he about about. 25 years gets the question: what did you do in the climate fight, grandpa, when it was still possible to turn it around? Will he then be completely honest and say that yes, I gave the biggest, historically high, oil subsidies to lock in even bigger investments in long-term climate damage?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e555	I don't think history is going to be exactly like that, but there's something we might be discussing in 25 years. It is not that the world has stopped asking for oil and gas, on the contrary, even though demand has now fallen somewhat as a result of the coronary crisis. Norwegian and foreign companies investing on a Norwegian base shall also contribute to the reduction of emissions and shall be at the forefront of technology development. What is in the agreement today is that we create both predictability and good framework conditions that ensure jobs, but also that we take care of the skills we need for the green shift, because it is not that we can turn on and off. If the oil business is now being built up and the supplier industry is going down and bankrupt, it is not that we can magic that competence again in five or ten years. We need it, we need to take care of it, and we need to develop it. That's why there's a context in the vast majority of people now doing: creating good framework conditions that ensure jobs, but also that we take care of the skills we need for the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e562	I think most of the parties share the ambition to ensure the competence and knowledge of the industry, and that there is some of the motivation behind various proposals that have been promoted to the matter. However, it is a proposal that has been important and important for the unfulfilled trade union movement, and it is about ensuring that the competence remains in the company, even if the crisis lasts for a long time, namely to extend the length of leave to a maximum of 52 weeks. The Council of State knows that the trade union movement has been under pressure for a long time. I also think the Council of State knows that this is essential for not losing the job, but can stay in the company until it gets better. So my question is why this isn't part of the package. Does the Council of State not see that it is absolutely essential that the length of leave should be extended to one year, so that we can release dismissals and keep the workers in the companies until the crisis is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e569	The size and government have at regular intervals increased the length of permeability, and there is also an evaluation of the consequences. There is a danger of an excessive period of leave, that the way back to work is too long. We have now extended the period of leave until October, and we have also announced that we will have a close dialogue with the social partners and also with the Stortinget to assess further extension. However, it is an assessment of the impact and experience of the type of proposal that provides an opportunity to permit for up to one year, that the way back to work can be too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e576	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e581	I am pleased that there is a broad solution in this case, because in my view this matter may be primarily about people – about the security of the future, about jobs, about businesses and also about skills. The goal of much of what we've done in Stortinget since March 12th has been that we just want to secure jobs and the basis for ordinary people to experience security in a demanding time. SV's representative Kaski says that what we're doing now is historically irresponsible. The representative of Stoknes believes it is surrealistic to believe that the oil and gas industry and the supplier industry can help to contribute solutions into a green future. I believe that both are wrong. I think it is quite responsible to make sure that we do what we can to ensure that the more than 320,000 people who are currently in complete or partial absence of work can actually have a job to go to. I also think it is wrong to say that the oil and gas industry and the supplier industry, the competence environments and everything that is kept active in this respect do not have the power and the ability to assist in the green shift. I think on the contrary that much of the foundation lies there – that the future is created by the present. There is no doubt that our oil and gas business is an important driver of the Norwegian economy and is important for hundreds of thousands of jobs. Several have mentioned earlier today that they have been around and visited both Stord, Verdal and Kongsberg. In my old state, Telemark, there are important jobs linked to the activity of the oil and gas industry in the valley, the Notodden and the Trengue. So it's kind of covered and involved in all municipalities – and in many, many people's lives. There is, of course, reason to discuss how we can use the situation we are now in, to possibly give a new pressure for a more climate-friendly future. I think, as I said, that the future is created by the present. What we're doing now is helping to create a foundation. In our opinion, a fall in activity related to the oil and gas industry would be vehemently eroded under important industrial environments and key competences just to develop much of what we are going to and need to develop in the future. Satisfactory and sustainable solutions in a world that uses less and less oil and gas are sea wind, hydrogen, cap electrification or other low-emission solutions. We believe that a weakened oil and gas industry will also weaken the prospects for the future and perhaps undermine our ambition to build a new green industrial platform in Norway. The case rapporteur mentioned initially, and it is quite exciting, Johan Sverdrup, the Utsira Height and the fantastically low emissions associated with the production there. Why are they historically low? Well, that's because Stortinget made very clear demands that you electrify that area. There was strong resistance to it in the oil and gas industry, or at least great scepticism. Not least it was from the rapporteur's own party who warned against it. But now this is being produced as a history of sunshine – a story that fits very well into the climate story of the development of Norwegian pedestal. I agree with that, but it had not come without us making demands. That's why something of the moment in the future, when this starts to happen again, is that we make clear demands, that we have expectations, that we impose emission cuts – and also technology projects that the oil industry may not take on itself, but that can nevertheless be right to do. That's how I think we can build rocks and solve the challenges of the future by making demands, and what we're doing today is demanding a number of areas – on both reduced emissions, new technologies, etc. But it is primarily about creating a foundation and a basis for us to be able to make very clear demands in the future as to what we expect from one of the most important industries we have in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e600	Now very many of the colleagues in the committee have commented on all the technical content of the setting, so I'm not going to go through all the free text levels and pillows and pads again. I would nevertheless like to start by thanking the parties that have entered into the agreement, and not least for good cooperation. It has been a demanding matter, and it has been important to find a broad solution. I have seen this in retrospect that both the industry and – not least – the communities in which these companies operate have greatly appreciated it. The crisis Norway is in now, lacks parallel in modern times. We have dealt with and adopted a number of major crisis packages. We have a toolbox that many countries can envy us, and as we go through that crisis, it bears the mark that we have had economic muscles to bear the burden. In order to do so, this industry's supply of both value and money to the big community has been absolutely crucial. Had we not had the money that has been created through this industry, we would not have been able to deliver those crisis packages either. It's a truth. So who is this industry? Very often when we discuss this, we talk about the oil and gas sector, but this industry is so often. Of course, there are thousands of people working on the base, but there are also many more working on the ground. It's industrial workers, it's engineers, it's scientists, it's a whole educational system. We have heard it from many other representatives, everyone has mentioned a company they have visited, and I have gradually become aware that there are companies in this system throughout the country. This means that there is a value chain across Norway. I also remember that even here in Oslo we have some oil business. Together, this constitutes a world-leading competence, which will be of great help to the two major shifts ahead of Norway. One shift has been talked about today, the green shift. But I also want to mention the next industrial revolution – all the technology and innovation that exists in this environment, is what is going to help us through the next industrial revolution. I'm talking in particular about automation and robotization. Many of the things we're going to live on later will happen on the shoulders of this industry. The challenges we faced before the coronary crisis will still be there. That also means that the demand for oil will go down. It is therefore essential for the Norwegian economy to help the industry in a new era. That is the whole basis for us to present that package and negotiate it for a solution – it is difficult to convert with empty order books and red numbers. There is also every reason today to remind the oil industry of the historical support they receive. We have received repeated enquiries and assurances that this had to be done to speed up investments, projects and jobs. This must now be delivered by the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e613	This industry has an enormous impact on Norway, the Norwegian economy, our welfare society and employment across the country. It should be noted, then, that a large majority have taken this situation seriously and have helped to make temporary changes to the petroleum tax system precisely in order to continue predictability of investment, employment and economic development for some of the things that need to be characterised as the backbone of the Norwegian economy. I also record that there have been contributions from the minority in this room that testify to a very remarkable analysis of both the importance of this industry and the ability of the Norwegian economy to carry out the transformation that everyone is talking about. It would have been almost impossible to extract the major economic synergies without it happening on the shoulders of an industry and an industry that has represented innovation, innovation and technology development for many, many years. It's a myth that this is an industry that doesn't change. This is an industry that has done nothing but to convert over many decades, which through technology development has reached deeper depths of sea, which have been able to produce technologies that are applicable across industries, which have helped health care and renewable energy production. There will soon be no limit to what this technology can be applied to. Remember, too, that large parts of this industry had not recovered from the fall in the oil price in 2014. Some of the companies and companies had come through it well, thanks to the tools they put in at that time. But large parts of the industry had not managed to recover and were hit again by a double click as a result of both the new oil price drop and the corona consequences. So, of course, it is necessary to set up these framework conditions, and I do not understand those who are analysing themselves until this is not a good store for Norway. If the oil price is going to rise in the future, there's at least one big winner, and that's the state, through the oil tax credit we have. There has never been anyone – at least not as I have heard – who has raised the issue of tax relief in this context. This has been about tax deferrals. We could have chosen a solution that really didn't cost the state a single penny, by making the changes on deferred tax in corporation tax. I think it's a little amazing that the government parties, with the right in the head, have had such a firm attitude to this. The right is usually a party that's busy preaching manners in the use of money, but here you chose 8 billion. kr rather than a zero solution, because you have locked yourself in a view of taxes that I do not understand, because these are changes that you make within the parameters you have to draw on in the petroleum tax system. This is the same Ministry of Finance as stated through the search fusion scheme – the case that Bellona complained about for ESA – that we just had more handles to pull in. Then you choose to flip the argument to the opposite in this context. At the same time, the Progress Party has chosen to agree to the solution to make the changes in income, simply because the option of not having a majority in favour of this could have dramatic negative consequences for the Norwegian economy, if we had not had a solution to trigger investment in future value creation. In short, a few words about Veidnes: Both the Workers' Party and the Center Party have created a somewhat optimistic picture around North Norway related to the comments in this setting. I'll warn you against that. The majority of the vote has been very clear in asking the government to go through thoroughly both the socio-economic and the economic consequences of this. So someone has to take this investment. It's potentially $3.5 billion. kr to employ – how many, President – 30 people? It's a high price per job. Therefore, I think it makes sense to present the comments on this in public and that we take a position on this based on the analysis that the government comes up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e636	On Monday, the message that they had sent to Leirvik AS was waiting for, and the magazine Sunnhordland could report that club leaders Håvard Hansen is looking forward to get the activity started and “right fights in the halls again”. On Tuesday, Aker BP announced that they were starting up the Hod project again. This is a project that includes it. Leirvik had so far started on, but which was seen on the waiting basis of the coronary apathy and insecurity around the low oil price. Before this decision, the enterprise had only a single small structure in the corner of the large production hall. After that, it was empty in the order books. Now this situation has turned upside down, and they are in full swing bringing back many of those who no longer had work. Leirvik shall now start building a drawbar construction module for Hod with helidecks. A little further south on the island Stord lies Kværner Stord. There were earlier in our 6 800 working hours, but with the coronary situation that occurred, and uncertain times around the oil market, there were also reductions in what is the deciduous largest corner stone industry in the region. There was the horizon of mission a little longer than at Leirvik, but it was also here that one could go more or less empty for missions in six and a half years. When one knows that it takes a long time to mature a project until the burning and welding work can start up in the halls, the future employment situation did not look bright here either. I want to praise the vast bulk of the population that has now negotiated through intense and demanding work until a temporary change in the petroleum law – a tax package that not only gives the surrounding effect of Leirvik, Verdal and other industrial sites, but also now seems to be able to provide long-term and large-scale results for a supply industry in crisis. On Thursday it was known that Equinor and Aker BP are digging the battle matches after a long draw and enter into a commercial agreement on the development of the NOAKA area, which will be the next major development project in the North Sea. This is a 50-billion-dollar investment. kr and 60 brd. kr, and this is good news for the Norwegian supplier industry, as both Aker BP and Equinor appear to favour Norwegian suppliers to a large extent. In the original tax package from the government party, the deadline for submitting a development plan was 2021. This cannot be done for NOAKA until 2022, so one will also count the deadline in the new oil package as the majority here at Stortinget will gather around on Monday. Another major project that can now be matured and which can in the long run generate a lot of activity in the supplier industry is Wisting in the Barents Sea. The oil industry, and perhaps especially the supplier industry, is well into the green shift. This is industry with competence and capacity to master major technology shifts towards low and zero emission solutions, and they are also active in the search for new market segments. But the supplier industry is exactly what the name implies: they live to deliver. And in order to deliver, there must also be someone who orders deliveries. The green tasks are not yet enough and large enough for this to be adequate for the industry, but we have to keep this industry up until the day comes. Kværner Stord plays an important role in the development and expansion of the large marine wind project Hywind Tampen, but it only gives work to 51 pieces, and of 6 800 in the yard work earlier this year it makes well under 1 pst. This is a broad settlement that is good for the country. If I'm ever going to say hello from this pulpit, it's also a good thing for my hometown, Great. I'm absolutely sure I should also say hello from Stord to this hall and say that people at Stord are very happy with our National Assembly today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e655	It was a broad majority who supported the fact that the Storting should be presented with a matter of how we can stimulate investment in the oil and gas industry and the supplier industry by the state. Now we are faced with an almost equally broad majority on what measures the Storting believes is right to implement. It has been a demanding matter because of its enormous importance for the Norwegian economy and employment throughout the country, but also because of its complexity in the tax system. This is a matter of great seriousness, in which we, as politicians, must proceed with wisdom and accountability. I believe that the consensus that is now in the Chamber balances the need for measures that are powerful enough for the industry to once again increase demand for its suppliers, while keeping the country's risk at a responsible level. We are making temporary changes in the petroleum tax to meet the expected temporary challenges we now see of lack of demand globally. For the Right, it has been important to help us make grips that work, but that are also responsible. That's why it's been important for us to keep the corporate tax out of it. Specific challenges for one industry should also be addressed within the specific tax of the industry. Keeping the system that corporate tax has been operating since 1992 is essential, and we have to fend off our tax system in both good and bad times. I am therefore pleased to see that the industry is already presenting projects that are ready for implementation based on the Storting decision today. I would like to stress that it is an enormous responsibility on the industry to follow up the signals sent to us, as long as they got a solution that went beyond the government's proposal. In my hometown of Smøla, I have grown up with helicopters flying right above the roof of the house to and from the platforms in the Norwegian Sea. The value creation of the oil and gas industries is enormous and strongly affects several regions of the country. On my side of the country, we find both the Celestial Goods in Aure, Nyhamna at Aukra and Westbase in Kristiansund – major players who employ and create high land activity, especially when the oil industry is going well. In the last few years, we know that that hasn't been the case all the way. A state like More and Romsdal notice it hard on the body when the oil price falls and the demand for suppliers falls away. We also have many examples across the country. That's why you need more legs to stand on, and there's a big point in this particular case. When we talk about a green shift, the word "change" lies there just because we've changed to something green compared to the previous one. The professionals and engineers working in the oil industry are already many of the same professionals who are going to help change the Norwegian economy to green. Both for the country’s value creation and for the future work on more climate-friendly solutions, it is incredibly important that we maintain the environment of expertise and facilities that currently provide oil and gas industries until demand also increases for the large green solutions. It is good that the consensus on this in the hall is as wide as it is. It is important for the predictability of Norway’s main industry, an industry that also points towards green investment and green industry. Finally, we can't see this case and the tax change isolated from everything else, as some of the parties in this room seem to be doing. In addition to the fact that this matter itself takes on a strong green grip, the majority also refers to the matter we have to deal with here in the Chamber next Friday, where the government has submitted a package for green conversion of 3.6 billion. kr. Two of them will go to Enova, where the supply industry has just the opportunity to apply for State subsidies to provide for the green shift. There's no other way to do this conversion than to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. I strongly disagree with those parties that believe that today we are taking an irresponsible decision. Two thoughts in your head at the same time are not too much to ask for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e676	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e682	In order to assist the Norwegian oil industry in a demanding crossroads, a large majority of this room today advocates a significant change in the tax ego of Norway’s main industry. The decision we are making today will enter into Norwegian industrial history. However, the way it does it, when future generations are going to look back on what we did today, is not given. That question is decided not only by today, but by how we follow up the decision in months and years to come. And by «we», I mean not only the bulk of the population, but also everyone else involved, not least all of the companies, organisations and employees who have exerted the strength and power of the change for which it is now a majority. The big question is whether we are able to use today's decision as a platform to seize the new opportunities, or whether, on the contrary, we see it as a postponement of a transition that must come in any case. If we do the first thing, we help keep the wheels going in a large and competent supplier industry, while actively positioning in the rapidly growing markets created by the renewable revolution. In any case, the 2020s will be the major migration path, and our foremost domestic market, Europe, is serious. The desire to enter a sustainable, renewable and circular economy has now become an industrial policy engine, an engine for innovation, technological management and increased strategic independence of raw materials in an increasingly demanding geopolitical landscape. So if we're able to use today's decision as the starting point for a new industrialization of Norway, in line with such international trends, history will be able to look back with gentle eyes on what we did in the hall today. On the other hand, if we allow today's decision to be a sleep cushion, a buffer against change and renewal, we have done Norwegian industry a bear service. The risk would then be that we would instead lock Norwegian business into a fossil economy which, in any case, cannot play the same role in the future as it has done up to now. With all due respect for Norwegian tax policy, it cannot actually lift international megatrends. As the Storting now takes this decision, it is therefore a heavy responsibility over the great ‘we’ that I mentioned earlier. I have noticed that almost everyone who has considered this change has just argued with the green shift as a bearing argument. Now is the time to deliver, not least from the oil industry. We're a lot of people who are going to follow what happens after this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e695	In Norway’s main industries, the overall effect of low oil prices, low economic activity and lower demand has internationally put planned projects and exploration activities on hold, with potentially significant negative ring-effects on the supply industry and our entire economy. Then it is the responsible policy to ensure that the fall does not get too fast and too deep. The temporary arrangement now in place has a price tag, but strong measures are needed, because the social costs of not taking the necessary action would be very large. If this goes well, if it goes up, then the upside is big. The broad consensus reached in this matter that all parties have contributed is the strength of the compromise. Time spent and action within a responsible framework have been important. In particular, it is important that company taxes do not change, that they remain the same for all industries. I would also like to highlight the importance of the close dialogue with industry and the supplier industry, not only in the request for work on the matter, but over time. We've got a lot of good input and we've brought it into the process. The oil industry is the main engine of the Norwegian economy and will remain so for many years. Priority number one for the Right and government has been to trigger activity and employment and provide a ‘boost’ for the industry and the supplier industry for a demanding time. Now we secure tens of thousands of district jobs, but not only that: we also work in important knowledge and technology environments. We maintain competence, adaptability and secure tax revenues, which we rely on to succeed in the green shift. The agreement on Stortinget has had an immediate impact on investment decisions. The following day the news came that Aker BP gave Kværner the contract on the Hod platform. The first welding was done in the workshop at Ørin in Verdal on Tuesday. It ensures 1,000 jobs for a year at the yard there, and the 3,000 jobs in the ecosystem around it. Yesterday, the news also came from the basic agreement between Aker BP and Equinor on the development of the NOAKA area, a total investment of 50 billion. kr and with an employment effect of 50,000 annual works during the development phase. That's formidable numbers we're talking about here. We share the joy and relief among employees in the oil and gas industries and among the subcontractors. The solution is invaluable, not only for communities like Verdal, Innherred, Stord and the whole of Sunnhordland, but will give great ring-effects across the country and an activity that Norwegian economy sorely needs in the situation we are in today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e710	For the Progress Party, this matter has been about something as simple as securing the jobs of people in a demanding time for the country. When a person hears the debate here today, he still indicates that we have had a difficult job. This is also the case – as when the Left says that their main ambition through these negotiations has been to hold back the income, even though one knows that it has been decisive to actually start new investments, or that when the SV defines this as the most irresponsible they have seen, or, last but not least, when Espen Barth Eide was afraid of locking up the labour force in the oil and gas industry. I mean, all of these statements testify to some kind of intellect about what kind of situation Norway actually is in right now. It is good and important to safeguard the interests of the oil and gas industry, because it has been important for the Progress Party. However, the reality is that there are no industries, no industries that individually — or collectively — would have been able to contribute to the demand effect of the Norwegian economy as investments from the oil and gas industry make to the Norwegian supplier industry over the coming years. This means that what you're trying to make a resistance to the oil and gas industry is, in reality, a resistance to the ability of workers to stay at work in the next few years. There are not tens of billions in public investment, ready to be launched, regardless of how many representatives or individual proposals like the Red Party and the Green Party and others are making. The project does not exist. The alternative to starting investment in the oil and gas industry was not other greener investments, some of which seemed to believe – there was no investment, unemployment and loss of well-being. That's why this has been so important for us to get in place, because it's really a pity that the depth we're going into the Norwegian economy doesn't get as deep as it would otherwise be, and that private investors and private capital in Norway, who have been gathering around the industries we're now talking about, actually get over the knuckle and can continue to invest in Norwegian jobs. Without it, we would have become a poorer country. This has therefore been an important blow, a stroke of jobs, a blow of future well-being – not an attempt to lock labour in a sector that does not need it, but on the contrary make sure that we maintain jobs in our most important industry in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e723	I don't think the solution for the oil industry is to do as the previous speaker and the Progress Party – to keep close to the eyes and pretend it's going to continue as before into eternity. Most people understand that it's hard. In a broad agreement, which we are debating here today, there are certainly no representatives who believe that the agreement is a hundred percent perfect. I don't mean that either. But it was the debate here today and the change of words in advance, especially in the capital press, that made me take the floor. It is claimed that the bulk of the population subsidizes an industry. It's claimed that special interests are gaining ground, and it's claimed that the bulk of the population is kneeling down for the oil lobby. Well, if it's subsidies that we have a resource that subsidizes the state budget, I agree with that. If it is of particular interest that we care for the livelihood of tens of thousands along the coast, I agree with that. And if there's a kneecap for the oil lobby to listen to those who work at Kværner Stord, to listen to the rapporteurs along the coast who see their communities build on this industry, then there's a kneecap for the oil lobby. But the oil lobby isn't the one sitting on Majorstua or Youngstorget. These are the trust-chosen, the elected people and the people around the communities along the coast – those who know the body how important this industry is. What we're doing here today is a continuation of our recent history. When the Brateli government with Finn Lied and Arve Johnsen at the head concluded that this industry and this natural resource were going to give us jobs on land, that's exactly what we're trying to take care of here today. It is not accidental that we have a strong and living supplier industry on land in Norway or as many landing facilities as we have. I think one of the reasons why so many people in the room today mention their visits to the supplier industry, whether it's to Kongsberg, Egersund, Stord, Sandsli, Nordmøre or Verdal, is that we see – when we're out there – that this is an industry that's going over into the green. It still has a foot in oil and gas, but is at full speed in the green shift. This is what the majority of people are contributing to today – that Norway can stand strong in the time when we are building new climate technologies on which we can export and have jobs based.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e736	When storms and people experience job insecurity, we have to set up. This is true of the industry on land, and of course it is true of the 200,000 professionals in our largest industry. The right and the government have been clear from the start that we need to secure the activity of the yard and supplier industries. It's also important to keep the velocity of the green shift. That is precisely why we proposed temporary adjustments in the tax haven that ensure companies better liquidity to launch projects. We've listened to the recordings from the industry, all the time with one goal in mind: to find responsible solutions that work in practice. Even I have had the pleasure of listening to the pride of the energy capital Stavanger Rosenberg Verft and to Aker in Egersund. They build large structures that I would say are far more impressive than the Eiffel Tower and the skyscrapers in New York, and they create great values for the community. The right is pleased with the consensus that now ensures that projects are undertaken where both small and large companies can participate. The biggest loss that we could now have made, would have been to cut off the bone we're standing on while we're building up new ones. Nothing is as devastating for green conversion as yard and supplier industry with broken back, without capital and competence. No one can win renewable jobs if they are already bankrupt. During the previous oil price fall, the government gave the Johan Sverdrup extension a green light. It saved many shipyards, so that the green conversion could continue. An example of this is Aibel in Haugesund, who now has 40 pst. renewable tasks. It shows that taking care of jobs and doing effective conversion is not a contradiction, but it is related. Stability and predictability are a noble mark of Norwegian petroleum management and it must remain so. The amendments are therefore temporary and limited. They come neither abruptly nor unexpectedly, but are a requested contribution to keeping the activity even and jobs safe. Norwegian oil and gas will be important for Norway for many years to come. The industry will, in turn, contribute to filling the Community savings box and becoming an important bridge builder to a more renewable society. Of course, we're going to put up with the 200 000 employees in our biggest industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e749	We can thank the oil and gas industries for having been able to help keep the wheels running in almost completely shut-down Norway in this crisis. There are savings in funds that enable us in this room to adopt action packages in the hundreds of billionaires class to save Norwegian business and tens of thousands of families' income now and in the future. Only in the Week there are more than 50000 jobs directly linked to the oil and gas industry. The oil and gas industry and the supply industry depend entirely on the important competence of the employees of the companies and companies. They are an important resource for Norway. They create great values for the community today, and their competence is crucial for us to succeed in the green shift. Today’s petroleum tax has worked well over time. It is the country that shares most of the changes in income when prices fluctuate and the petroleum tax is investment-friendly, which has created thousands of jobs. We are now in an extraordinary situation. The outbreak of the virus and the fall in oil prices had been difficult enough separately, but now there were two crises at the same time. This has led to increased uncertainty and the needs of companies to cut costs. Many planned projects and exploration activities were at risk before the settlement of the settlement. This would have produced significant negative ring-effects for the supplier industry. We have to contribute from this room what we can to lose as few jobs as possible and minimum skills on the way to a normalized world and the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e762	Stord, Storebø, Ågotnes, Sture, Kollsnes, Mongstad, Flavoy, Hanøygen, Ashøy, Porsøy, Florvåg, Straume, Fedje, Sløvåg, Sandsli, Flesland, Südstaken, Os and Fusa in Bjørnafjorden, Gravdal, Kvinnherad – many are mentioned, none forgotten. All of these are some of the places and communities in my district that depend — in whole or in part, directly or indirectly — on the oil industry. I hear that many of our fronts here in the hall have been visiting these areas in these times, and that's good. Visits provide insight and contact and through that understanding and in this matter. At the same time, there is a great difference between visiting and living. The uncertainty we feel where we live, when we see it getting quieter on the sea, quieter on the yard, when the permits come and the bills get harder to pay, and when more and more boats stay in the bow by the land, and our neighbors and friends have to go ashore, it's hard to describe with words in a 3-minute post. It's in the stomach, it's in the heart, and it affects us all. Every dismissal and every leave is family, a brother, a sister, and a friend. It has sometimes been bad to hear the lightness and negativity some have shown in the mention of this industry that is so important to my region – plan for liquidation, industry is dirty; much has been said. The most important thing about today is both the activity it will ensure in the short term and that this will ensure investments that will provide activity and revenue for a long time. Thus, we do what has been branded as the king of Norwegian industrial policy: prevents short-term crises from destroying long-term value creation. That's what we're doing today. We ensure long-term value creation and the long-term jobs by dealing with the crisis we see in the short term. It also sends a message that the broad majority clearly announces that this industry will be part of our future. It gives you security at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e775	Oil price falls and the Korona crisis are putting us to the test, and what we are doing now is not only supposed to provide us with security today, but it is also going to provide security for those who come after us. How we get on our legs now in a way that makes us stand stronger in the future and make us less oil dependent, should be the goal. We're extremely vulnerable, and the oil tax settlement makes it sadly worse. The trial has not passed the government and the majority, unfortunately. We could find wise solutions that had created jobs both now and in the future. Instead, billions of billions in risk relief for oil companies have been thrown into this overburden policy for years – for years – without any obligations to create new Norwegian jobs, or to start green tasks. Tax papers trigger 115 billion. kr for investment in the oil industry, says the Council of State. Yes, it makes us more oil dependent, and it becomes similarly more difficult for other industries, which do not get such relief. We could give the oil industry relief now, but not billions for years and much, much better conditions than absolutely anyone else who is going to drive industrial development in this country. It will draw investment and competence away from the absolutely necessary transformation both we and the world must undergo. Now Norway is in the culvert, and other countries are developing the industries we could live from. The interior, from which I come, is screaming for better risk-absorbing to develop jobs and nourishment of renewable resources from forests and soil. But with the crooked competition that is now being set up, this has been set back many years. SV has negotiated a solution that ensures jobs in the yard industry and triggers green jobs. Risk relief should enter the yard and supplier industries when they develop new, renewable solutions the world and Norway needs. It's possible, and it needs to. Now we could use the chance to give green land-based industry in Norway better framework conditions and rigged on the economy for the future. But unfortunately – it is now exposed for many years. Instead, we are now forced to make a historical mistake, and that cannot be included in SV. Projects in the oil industry that were not profitable before will now be launched. Oil drilling is never a climate action – no matter how many times the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Labour Party and the Center Party say so. Unaccountable crisis solutions unfortunately give us lasting and more dangerous crises.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e790	It's important that this consensus is in place. It is important for growth, it is important for value creation, and it is important for people's jobs – that ordinary people, nationwide, should be able to continue to go to work, continue to support themselves and their families, continue to contribute to the community, continue to drive technology development and innovation in what is one of the world's most highly competent industries. It is true, as some have noted, that there are changes in the market that we must be aware of and that, of course, the petroleum industry and the supplier industry must be prepared for. But if you're going to be able to change, you're going to be able to drive innovation, you're going to have to have projects. The supplier industry must be ordered. We also have clear expectations with this consensus that projects will be realised, and that the transition that has begun on the base will continue, so that the emissions ambitions that industry, industry, along with trade movement, have been set for the base. I hear that the majority parties are now receiving criticism from, for example. Socialist Left Party. I think that's funny, because SV tends to criticize the right side of leaving workers in the hole. It's a false criticism. That's not true. But that's something we usually hear from that edge. But who is it that leaves the workers in this place? Who is it that won't even agree to negotiate a solution that will enable people to continue to go to their job? It's the Socialist Left Party. So they think that the conversion is just going to happen by itself, without any projects to work with. It's pure imagination. It may seem that – from what we hear from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party – you have to celebrate in SV and in Finnmark because you get a landing. SV is against Castberg, but for landing. But I think it is important that we are quite clear in the communication that there are reservations that need to be taken, so that you do not repeat the mistake you made when the champagne party was held and there was no landing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e803	If this is the case, even after the broad agreement established in this setting on landing to Weidnes, that it will not be able to do so anyway, then the government party and the Progress Party are heavily responsible for it. Once I have signed up for this short article, it is to give a quick explanation of vote to proposal No. 29, from Red, to ask the Government to ‘ensure that the decision to shut down the production plant on the beaches of Lake Sandness’. I note that the Labour Party is against. This is a private company that cannot be controlled remotely by decisions on Stortinget. What the Labour Party has done instead is to demand effects for jobs in Norway. We have got multiple numbers for several of our requirements, and we expect oil tax changes to have an effect, among other things. for Lake Sandness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e810	Several people have been here, and I just want to take it all first, that it's because of the oil industry that we have had the opportunity to have these crisis packages we've had in the Norwegian economy lately. It is with respect to report wrong. Around us in many countries crisis packages have been set up to meet the serious economic crisis in the shadow of the coronary pandemic. It's quite possible even if you don't have an oil fund. It's going to be solved in different ways. The oil industry has been and is important to Norway, but that is not what has saved us from this crisis. So it's been said that it's important that you have two thoughts in your head at the same time. That's exactly what SV's criticism of the solution that's on the table here today, because if oil platforms are built on the yards, it's not built undersea wind chassis to the extent necessary. At present, there are few jobs to realise sea wind, because the bulk of the population in this room and the government we have had for several years has not been able to give priority to new industries, new jobs, new industries for Norway. 3.6 B.C.E. kr over three years is the government's green crisis package. In the package we're adopting here today, it's 8 billion. In tax cuts to the oil industry – and it is not over several years, it is right now – and 115 billion. kr in liquidity relief. The oil package we are adopting here today is just not a climate package, no matter how many times it is repeated. It should be a cross of thought for the Central Party and the Workers' Party in particular that one here swallows the argument from an industry of tax cuts. Of course, businesses want less tax, it's completely legitimate. But unconditional tax cuts have never been the business or industrial policy of the left, nor should they be. There is no requirement even to limit dividends or bonus payments and there are no clear commitments about ring-fences. The fact that the Right takes so easily on ring effects in Finnmark, from the oil industry, says a lot about the Right's bet and the will to bet on jobs in the north. The oil industry has for many years asked for stable framework conditions and for them to remain firm. With this package and the work that has been up against it, it is broken. SV comes at every crossroads to take a rematch about that package, the consensus that lies here. We believe that this is unwise policy for the country, and with just the changes being made now, it is clear that when the oil price fluctuates, the tax egym for oil also fluctuates, and that is what will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e822	The world is facing a deep and serious climate crisis. The response to that crisis is not increasing the investment in fossil energy, and at least not increasing the investment in unprofitable oil and gas. In February, before the Korona crisis hit the country, Equinor could report that the Wisting field was far north of the Barents Sea – much further north than the last extension adopted by the majority of the population, Johan Castberg, was unprofitable. It was before the Korona crisis. Now, with further falls in the oil price, the bulk of population may have made expanding the Wisting field profitable – profitable for Equinor, but perhaps unprofitable for the Norwegian welfare state, for the Norwegian community. It is currently being added to an oilbonanza that is missing and that can cost the Norwegian community expensive in the years to come: expensive in the form of lost money, and expensive in the form of large increases in greenhouse gas emissions. The supplier industry is important. SV will therefore make proposals of several billion kroner to secure jobs in the yard industry. It's completely wrong, what right representatives claim. We want a bet on green shipping, we want a bet on liquid sea wind, carbon capture and storage, to put in use and produce hydrogen, and we want to also bet on the plowing of wells. The Government and the Center Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party arrangements show how strongly they are betting on oil over what is the industries of the future. The government's proposal is 3.6 billion. kr in a green crisis package over three years. At the same time, 8 billion. kr in tax relief to oil companies. The government's climate policy is not at all a believer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e835	Clearly, the representative, Jon Georg Dale, fell heavily to the chest that I was warning against the risk of being locked up in the fossil economy. Then I would like to remind you that the vast majority who support this proposal, in fact, just assume that we need to ensure both jobs, competences and industrial environments today, so that we have jobs today and tomorrow, and help them to position themselves so that we can have jobs in the future, even when the market has changed completely fundamentally. This is solidly located in a long Norwegian oil history. It's been half a century since Norway entered the oil age. Foreseen politicians made sure that we could make good money for the best of the community for many years, but they taught us more than that. They also taught us how to manage them wisely and in the long term. They were eager to ensure Norwegian ownership, build Norwegian competence and a solid Norwegian supplier industry. They further warned against monoculture and an excessive pace of development as well as the phase-in of increased revenue. St.meld. No 25 from 1973 to 1974 on the place of petroleum activity in the Norwegian community stands as a building for Norwegian guiding power, and it describes in many ways the road towards what Norway we have today. Where we stand now, in 2020, we have the fasit. We can certainly say that the active, guiding industrial policy such as Trygve Bratteli, Finn Lied, Jens Christian Hauge and Arve Johnsen stood for that time, has proved to be a formidable success. The long-termity is further supported where the same kerosene message, i.e. from 1974, says: ‘It is possible that the petroleum activity will become an important factor in the Norwegian economy well beyond the next century. Nevertheless, one must already think about the time after the end of the petroleum activity itself.» Furthermore, it is important to make investments so that they can ‘contribute to the reduction of the problems that the closure of the petroleum industry may cause’. So this is a greeting from 1974, wise words from people who are so far ahead, and I remind you that far into the next century from 1974, that's now, and the years and decades ahead. We are living now, who are responsible for taking this staf stick forward with the same wisdom and the same long-term ability, and it is my hope that we will therefore be able to combine the desire to secure today's jobs, to make sure that there are also some there in 10, 20 and 30 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e853	There is absolutely reason to take the floor when you listen to the representative Kaski, who stands here and almost undermines the significance of the oil fund in this situation. Everyone else spends money – yes, they do, but many countries have to raise large loans. Many countries that already have loans far above the pipe are now facing an even more difficult situation. Then we are in Norway in a fantastic position, which can now spend money we have on book, to get through the crisis and save jobs. So building platforms is going to be a problem because it's not being built, as was said here, undersea wind chassis. Then the question is, who is going to ask it, then? Is it the State that is going to go in and demand the construction of these sea wind projects? And then who? Very well known, there are no pot-ready projects where you can just get started. The state has already gone in by 2.5 billion. kr in the Hywind Tampen project. When I was in Stord, there were 50 men in a yard with over 1,000 employees working on these projects. Then the conclusion here is that you want to drain the oil fund, gamble with the money, and use it for the state to ask for it. Aibel Haugesund is perhaps one of the most advanced companies in developing sea winds and having such projects in their order books. They were also among those who were quite clear that if they are going to continue this development, we have to provide good framework conditions for the oil companies, so that they can make the transition forward, because it takes a few years before they are there that these projects can be large enough to make it monster. With regard to the Workers' Party, this case has once again shown how fragmented the party is, between those who want to take care of industrial development in Norway, and those who are very concerned about shutting down the oil industry. We're just going to have to take note of that. So there are these unprofitable projects that I've asked many times repeatedly to show us. To date, no one has come up with any suggestions for that. Wisting is being expanded if it's profitable. If it doesn't, it won't. That's what's been the starting point of the oil industry all along, and at the end of the day, we're politicians, either in government or on the Stortinget, who are actually saying that they're approved of these projects. There is no one who can live by good wishes and free imagination. Private business has to have income from real projects in the market, and then we have to make sure that they can get over their knees and bet for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e870	It is true that one of the reasons why the petroleum industry has legitimacy in Norway, in addition to the great values it creates, is that it contributes to jobs and ring-fences across the country. I therefore think it might be a little strange when the representative Kaski says that we are not concerned about ring effects, that we are not concerned about industrial workplaces resulting from the petroleum industry. The Socialist Left Party is against Castberg. That doesn't help you being very comfortable with landings. What they will then land are actually air soups and waiting balls. There won't be jobs of it. Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken was in the pulpit and said he was in favour of green shipping, hydrogen, carbon capture and storage. I must say that I was not aware that I was sitting on the Stortinget with Sherlock Holmes himself. Everyone's for it, President. This is an offensive part of the government's climate policy. With the climate package that has come in connection with the situation we are facing, there is more money for the Climate Action for the municipalities, 2 billion. kr more to Enova, which the Socialist Left Party is trying to make sound like a small sum. Then they can only look at the appropriations that the bourgeois majority gives to Enova versus what the red-green government was able to do. Green shipping, the hydrogen strategy has just arrived, offensive work on carbon capture and storage, etc. This is part of the government's climate policy. It happens at regular intervals that the Socialist Left comes with Document 8 proposals in the Committee on Energy and the Environment with 40-45 proposals on climate. It is so difficult for them to find new proposals that the government is not already working on. Maybe they should be working on developing their own climate policy instead of pretending that the government isn't doing anything it does? Then we have a climate change cure, as the government ordered, which is the knowledge base, so that we get a coherent, systematic climate policy for all sectors in Norway. It's just to wish the representative Lars Haltbrecken luck with the criticism of it. But let it be real criticism, not just a criticism that's about pretending that the government doesn't do anything it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e883	The statements from SV's Kaski made me take the floor. The claim that the oil does not affect the capacity and ability we now have to help business through the crisis falls on its own unfairness. The claim that the oil is suddenly unprofitable falls on its own unfairness. Firstly, let us clear up all doubts: the revenues from the petroleum industry and its return now finance the entire rescue of Norwegian industry. Yes, other countries also deliver crisis packages, but they borrow in the same sling. The big difference between us is that where they take on difficult crisis loans, we have through valuable resources and wise management built up the oil fund. Italy and many countries in Europe are still struggling with large debts from the previous financial crisis, and they will now sink even deeper. The United States has announced that they will borrow the equivalent of $30 billion, and the Americans and the young people of America will live with a huge debt burden for many generations to come. I think it had dressed to show a little more humility and gratitude to the well-known 200,000 professionals who stand by day and night to finance the well-being of which we all enjoy and who now save Norway and future generations indebtedly through the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e890	This was now an attack on the general government climate policy, but emissions in Norway are falling. They did that last year that's the fourth year in a row and they're going to do that this year too. We have a government that has just notified the United Nations that emissions should be cut by 50 pst. in ten years, and we have committed ourselves to the EU with joint implementation to ensure that we achieve the objectives. I don't think it would have been possible to do without a civil majority implementing such cooperation. We are leading the world in reducing fossil energy sources, we are doing it within transport, within shipping – on transport minus 7 pst. Just last year. We have also launched large projects such as Hywind Tampen on floating sea winds – 2.3 billion. kr in aid last year. Carbon capture and storage work. It can't be that 3.6 billion. kr to a green conversion is not significant. It is based on increases in Enova and other green conversion support schemes each year. With regard to the tax change we are talking about today, the Left believes that the government's proposal was better. We are now increasing the risk of getting projects that provide profitability for companies, but not for the state. 50 pst. reduction in the petroleum sector by 2030 is also an important decision in this case. This means that one must focus on electrification, one must have liquid sea winds in order to achieve emission reductions, one must have increased efforts on emission-free shipping, it must be technology for reinvestment. This will be an engine for green conversion, a green conversion that will also benefit the supplier industry. I agree that in Norway, where the oil and gas industry is such a large part of the economy, we will succeed in bringing down our own emissions and doing so in such a way that the rest of the world benefits from it, and that it will be profitable for Norwegian business, we must take this industry into transition. Here we have a system that is beneficial for the oil industry, but one also has decisions that make us speed up the green transition and drag this industry with us to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e899	Once again we hear representatives from the government parties boasting of a small reduction in Norwegian emissions last year. But what is the background for that decline? Well, there's an increased use of biofuels, mostly. If we look at the figures for last year's biofuel sales, there was an increase in the sales of palm oil. There was an increase in the sales of the biofuel that destroys the rainforest. So the government parties cut Norwegian emissions by putting an orangutan in Norwegian diesel and petrol tanks. It's the truth behind the government's climate policy. Then we hear the representative Heggelund talk about the government's hydrogen strategy. Well, even Sherlock Holmes is not able to find a single crown or an obligatory measure to bet on hydrogen in that strategy, but perhaps he can get the help of his good friend Dr. Watson to see this. In the last few days, we have seen the Workers' Party and the Centre again to celebrate the landing of the oil from the Johan Castberg field to Veidnes. I fear that they again throw blues in the eyes of people in Finnmark. When they presented the news about the unity of what we are discussing today, they did not tell us about what was written in small font in the setting. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party failed the people of Finnmark as it was involved in this matter. It was in June 2018, when Stortinget dealt with the question about the Johan Castberg field. Then SV suggested, after we had lost the matter of expanding the field, which we opposed, that the oil should at least be landed. All three parties voted against that. Then you could have done something about it. The continuous champagne licking in Finnmark to the Workers' Party and the Center Party reminds me of the government's soft cake pissing for electrification of the Trønderbanen in Trøndelag. I have no figures on how many soft cakes have been consumed to celebrate that electrification of the tread has been started again. Well, still the poles are not there to power the train.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e910	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e915	The representative Heggelund talked about waiting balls. I don't know what waiting balls are, but I know what landing is, and the bulk of the population has voted down landings in Finnmark, and the population of Finnmark is losing again. Then a side debate here has evolved into a debate on economic policy. So it's like we're now selling assets from our oil fund to finance these crisis packages, assets on which we'd have greater returns if they had been in the oil fund and we had taken up cheap low-interest crisis loans. So it's not always a good idea to spend money on books, even though it's a good idea to avoid excessive debt. Just in this situation, the oil fund alone is not what would have been the solution to financing those crisis packages. So I think – when the representative Listhaug talks about draining the oil fund and ‘old’ with the money from the state to finance renewables – that the representative should take a look at the crisis package that is here, when it comes to gambling with money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e924	It is a crisis, and we must create jobs, but we must also save the climate, and we must make money in the future. That is what we need if the future is to be secure. What is critical now is that the agreement reached in Stortinget now provides no guarantee for those jobs in Norway, but it binds us more to the oil industry, all of which, apart from the Progress Party, we say, need to become less dependent. I think it's pretty bad that the majority doesn't relate to it at all. Would we now use the opportunity to provide relief and risk relief to the industry we can live on in the future? That's what we challenge. We have, as I said in my post, been willing to share in giving relief to the oil industry for a short period of time – everyone who has been sitting and negotiating – but not difficult relief over many years, which leads to investments that bind us more and more to something we have to end with. Because it takes capacity, it takes investment, it takes the wise heads – and binds it into an industry that damages the climate globally, and we have to stop that. I went down to my office and turned up in the local way from home – and there is, in Hedmark, jamm a project with at least a hundred new jobs based on returns. It can be established. There's something I think everyone agrees that we should do, but there's a little lack of government investment, because the risk is high on these projects. Does this industry get any risk relief? They get some subsidies to do what everyone says is right: to take care of the wood that is waste from, for example. construction and old construction? They reduce mass CO 2 and create 100 jobs. That's also something we have to think about. It's a future enterprise, something we can live on, and something we need for very many years to come. So there are many possibilities in the future, but the problem is that the agreements that are now being concluded are turning this in an even worse direction. The risk relief that the industry of the Inland and the green circular economy has asked for for a long time is not there, while it is there in full — for years and billions of years — towards the industry that contributes most to the climate problem and that locks up competence and capital firmly there and does not help us into the future that I hope my grandchildren will get.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e938	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e956	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e973	After the wishes of the Finance Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be given an opportunity to reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e978	The representation is important for Storting’s control of Norway’s Bank’s operations. They do a good job, take care of matters and get a hearing. The annual reports to the Storting are of great value to the financial committee’s understanding and understanding of the activities of the central bank. This year, the new Central Bank Act came into force. It significantly strengthens the role of representation. It is important that they also continue to have the working conditions necessary to carry out their important social mission, because it is a job they are handling well. We note that the recordings and feedback from the representation provide improvements in the organisation of the central bank. The dialogue between the Representation and the Bank of Norway is good and questions answered. A number of amendments have been implemented in line with the recommendation of the Bureau. For example, the central bank has: improved reporting on social responsibility and accountability in management. The organisation of the bank has also changed in order to achieve more cost-effective operations. The Ministry of Finance has, on its side, followed up the input of the representative to clarify the responsibilities of the Governing Council. The Governing Council shall approve the markets in which it invests and the financial instruments used. Then there's something about the format of this report. As last year, the Committee would like to invite the representativeness to consider how they can make it more lewd and interesting to the public, to cut back on long standard formulations that go back year after year. Having said that, I would like to stress that the work of the Bureau is at a high level, and I believe that on behalf of the Committee I can thank the representative for the good work they are doing, and for the improvements it brings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1001	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1018	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: Labour Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Environment Party Green 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. In addition, you will be given the right to reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1025	The government submits an annual report on the financial markets, as well as this year. Initially, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. We started work on the communication with an open hearing in Stortinget on 19 May, where the Governor of the Central Bank was also invited. I refer to the setting and will explain the main elements of the message. I assume that the parties themselves will come up with their respective proposals, and therefore do not go through them systematically now. The Financial Market Communication sets out efforts to mitigate the risk of financial instability, regulatory and industrial policy developments in the financial market, access to capital and migration, and to ensure good and safe financial services for consumers. The notification also provides an overview of the activities of Norway’s Bank, the Financial Supervisory Board, the Folketrygdfondet and the International Monetary Fund in 2019. The situation in the economy and the outlook in financial markets, both in Norway and internationally, is now strongly influenced by the outbreak of the coronavirus and the strong measures taken. In a short time, dramatic changes have taken place in the Norwegian economy, which, in combination with a low oil price and a sharp decline in our trading partners, reinforces the impact on Norway. It forms the back porch for the message. Many of the measures taken to mitigate the consequences of the virus outbreak have a direct impact on financial markets. The exchange rate has been severely weakened, and Norway’s Bank has reduced the interest rate to 0 pst. In order to ensure sound access to liquidity for banks, the countercyclical capital buffer requirement is reduced from 2,5 pst. For 1 pst. Government loan guarantee schemes have been put in place for business. Forecasts of the outlook for the Norwegian economy in the future. The SSB estimated the growth of the mainland economy at -3,9 pst in the last week. this year. The OECD expects a much weaker growth and estimates a fall in private consumption this year of nearly 10 pst, while the SSB believes the same fall is 6 pst. With regard to the level of unemployment, Nav figures show a fall of 70,000 people in May alone, but although many leave the queue, between 5,000 and 6,000 new jobseekers arrive weekly. The number of persons considered to be affected by corona-related unemployment is now 420 000. It's a dramatic number, but the drama is the greatest for them, and for society as a whole. The Norwegian financial system is resilient, modern and highly trusted. Norwegian banks are robust, more profitable than in several of our neighbouring countries and, since the financial crisis, have complied with ever higher capital buffer requirements in line with international and EU regulations. In addition, we have very sound government finances – which was a review theme in the previous debate. It has now proved to provide an additional security and a space for action not many other countries have, to face the crisis with powerful measures. In the coronary crisis, banks have become part of the solution, unlike in the financial crisis, when the banks were the problem itself. They have taken an active role and are an important tool in the State instrument to ensure liquidity for business. I would like to highlight the valuable contribution of the financial industry to the design of the compensation scheme and to the development of early payment systems for businesses. Household debt ratio is one of the main indicators of possible financial instability. The debt of Norwegian households, including consumption debt, is already at a high level both historically and in comparison with other countries. Nevertheless, a slowed growth was observed in 2019, probably due to, among other things, the consumption loan regulation, with the strict rating requirements contained in it, the housing loan regulation and the debt register – three important measures taken by the government. At the same time, the increase in the default of consumer debt is a concern. The low interest rate increases the ability of households to handle debt, but the fall in income can have a counter-productive effect on many people. In the context of the crisis, the government has increased the flexibility ratio in the housing loan regulation to 20 pst. Banks also have the right to grant a deferral of repayment and interest on existing loans for up to six months. Derogations have been granted from the requirements of the Consumer Loan Code for loans to persons awaiting payment of Nav’s daily allowance. Uncertainty about economic developments is still very high, and many households may still need to defer repayments and refinancing of existing loans. Therefore, the government is continuing the increased flexibility in the housing loan regulation for three more months. Depending on the evolution of the crisis, it may be reasonable to consider the possibility of extending the maturity of loans so that monthly rates can be slightly lower. The pace of innovation in the financial sector is high. The established financial measures are now challenged both by new fintech enterprises and by the fact that large technology companies have begun to provide financial services. With the entry of the large tech companies into the market, competition may increase in the short term but present a risk of less competition and increased market concentration in the longer term. Increased use of new technologies will raise the demand for regulatory guidance. The FSA’s regulatory sandbox is one measure for this and also for facilitating innovation. Another type of actors discussed in the Communication are public finance platforms, where the government will monitor regulatory developments in the EU and continuously assess the need for further regulatory changes here in Norway. Because when borrowing needs take other routes and capital are taken out of the banking system, there may be grounds for considering inputs from the financial industry, such as: that consumer loans granted through crowdfunding should have the same rights and obligations under the Debt Information Act. The annual financial market notification also mentions initiatives to increase understanding of climate risk in financial markets and to facilitate private capital targeting sustainable investment. We rely on that to succeed in the transition to the low-carbon economy. Tools for identifying green, sustainable investments are under preparation, including the common European label scheme for green financial products aimed at consumers. Norway joined the EU's international sustainable finance network in March this year. It includes labelling schemes, a classification system for sustainable activities, such as sustainability-related reporting. All of this is believed to reduce the risk of what is called greenwashing of investments. The responsibility of the supervisory authority for climate risk is also formalised. Non-life insurance companies are the most directly exposed actors to the physical impacts of climate change, including: due to the expectation of more severe extreme weather. Change in climate policy, new technologies and new market preferences may involve a transitional risk to the Norwegian economy in the years that come and have consequences for financial stability. It can be reinforced by the uncertainty in the development of the oil and gas industry and its impact on the Norwegian economy. As mentioned above, the consumer perspective is important in this Communication. Consumers shall have access to safe and good services and the government shall closely monitor the market and comply with the new obligations introduced in recent years. The banks have downgraded the cash offer over many years, but under law they have a responsibility to offer cash, which is maintained as a legal means of payment – also in the interests of preparedness. In the last year, banks have developed a new common framework for deposits and cash withdrawals in shops. It shall be evaluated during the harvest. The consultation focused on developments in the use of cash and on proposals to clarify the impact of digital central bank money, as the Committee follows up in this position. A large majority of the Committee would like to consider an extended mandate for the Financial Complaints Board for the handling of complaints from organisations, traders and businesses. I also refer to the proposal on account number portability, i.e. to be able to move with their bank account number to a new bank. There is no government party behind it, and it is therefore for the sake of both significant technical challenges and high costs of such a solution – which will have to be borne by bank customers. With that, I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1076	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good work on the matter. There are many exciting suggestions from different parties in this setting, which one may not have gotten into at the same depth as they deserve. There is an exciting proposal on a government investment bank – to take an example – that may be appropriate in the programming processes of the batches. However, the main criticism of the Workers' Party against the Government's call for proposals, against the financial market notification, is the situation in the consumer loan market. It's good that the catch of new debts has decreased, but it's still like 13 pst. of household interest expenditure is derived from consumption loans, while only 4 pst. of the total loans. The default of these loans increased exponentially in 2019, which was before the Korona crisis entered the Norwegian economy, and before 400,000 went into unemployment. This is a financial vulnerability of dimensions, both for the Norwegian economy as a whole and for all individuals that framework. The government should come up with new immediate measures against this default that put greater risk on the banks that give these loans that should not have been granted. During the coronary crisis, we have been shown to be generally young, low-paid with short or no education that has had the toughest losses, which loses jobs and loses income. There has been a clear ideological distinction in this room, especially between the red-green parties and the government parties with the Advance Party, where the red-green ones, among others, are. wished for yield limits. Neither does this message indicate that the government parties want such dividend restrictions, and now we've got figures from the financial industry that the dividends still have the same thing as before, except for DNB's deferred dividends. The industry has been given a compensation scheme. Now there is also a wage subsidy, one gets a guarantee scheme, guaranteed loans, etc. There are ever new schemes – which are supported by a broad majority in this Chamber, because we want to secure jobs and other viable enterprises. But there should also be requirements for these schemes: dividend restrictions, stops in bonus payments and increased management salaries are examples of what should be put in place. Finally, I would like to say that the Labour Party supports proposal No. 21, from the Central Party, which has been submitted as a loose proposal for this matter. Otherwise, I will address the suggestions in the setting in which the Workers' Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1087	Then the representative Eigil Knutsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1092	In recent months, we have shown that we live in a vulnerable society, and that shocks in the economy have major consequences for people in Norway – for the income of people, for the jobs of people, for the soundness of businesses. The fact that we have a robust economy, and also having a good regulation of the financial market, is important in a time of crisis. The treatment of financial market communications and the consultation we had highlighted various aspects of vulnerability to us as a society, including in the financial field. Among other things, the Swedish Financial Federation highlighted the challenges and vulnerability we create, by flagging out essential infrastructure, services that are essential and critical infrastructure, being supplied from other countries – there is also a danger over time – where we do not have the necessary competence in Norway to ensure this. In a crisis situation, what consequences could it have for Norway as a nation if we do not ensure that we both own and operate critical infrastructure in Norway? It is therefore important to take the initiative to bring such services home. The centre party proposes to ask the government to ensure that critical financial IT infrastructure is operated from Norway. It is a very important proposal, in which we have been illustrated how vulnerable we are in today's situation, and also how important it is to have control in such areas. We have also seen the importance of having solid banks in Norway. The banks we have in Norway have been an important tool through the crisis. They have also been used to provide loans to small and medium-sized enterprises — and larger enterprises — in different locations in Norway. Therefore, there is also a worrying trend, which has occurred in recent years, that the share of foreign banks in the loan market in Norway, loans, especially towards the corporate market, is increasing. One of the reasons why it's worrying is that it's often just in times of crisis that you see foreign banks withdraw. We have seen that in previous crises, and there is also a challenge now. So the fact that we make sure to strengthen the Norwegian banks, to strengthen the local and regional banks that we have around in Norway, is very crucial and important, not just for the banking industry as such. The financial industry is also a tool for the Norwegian economy to access capital for viable enterprises around the whole of Norway. This is why it is very worrying when one has seen the geographical differences in the use of funds through the Loan Guarantee Facility for SMEs – when one knows how widespread the crisis has been in Norway. So to consumers' rights: there is no doubt that in the situation we are now in – where there are many who have lost income, many who have become unemployed, many who have been outsourced and greatly reduced income in a short time – there are many who have ended up in a difficult economic situation. Although we have had a positive development with a reduction in consumer loans, or at least in the growth of consumer loans, it is particularly important to be aware of what is now happening in this area. Therefore, we believe it is important to make further restrictions, both through marketing and through a ceiling on interest rates. It is also important to better regulate the collection industry than today. We still miss the follow-up to a reduction in collection fees, which the government has said would be done, but which we are still asking for a follow-up. I would like to take up with it the proposals of which the Central Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1107	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1112	I take the word, briefly, to address the proposal of which SV is a part, and which has not been taken up so far. In the setting we are discussing here, SV has a wide range of proposals to ensure that the financial industry also takes its role in the green transition. Today, there is not a lack of capital that is the challenge that prevents us from succeeding in achieving the climate goals and transforming the Norwegian economy, but the fact that capital is being invested incorrectly. Financial industry plays an important role. Through cooperation and initiatives from the financial industry itself, as well as through frameworks and regulations, we can help channel the money towards green projects with a low climate risk. Other proposals that we are promoting in this position include: on climate risk, inter alia: business needs to be required to report on climate risk. It's absolutely crucial if we're to make sure that the money goes in the right direction. The government should also report on climate risk in the Norwegian economy in each state budget, so that we get the full picture of the financial risk facing Norway. The same applies to the assignment of the Financial Supervisory Authority to conduct stress tests of climate risk. Compared to countries that have gone ahead in this area, we are looking to have a good overview of Norway’s overall climate risk. Finally, I would like to refer to what was also mentioned by the representative Knutsen. We propose here to set up a state investment bank. It is also something that other countries already have and can contribute to and precisely ensure that green projects receive loans, capital and access to large-scale projects that fall outside the existing framework, but also contribute to the inclusion of private capital, as it acts as a risk-relief for that type of project. So with this I take up the proposal from SV and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1123	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1128	The financial market is the key to green transition and innovation, which was also the topic of the previous speeches. It is about raising capital for future green solutions, but it is also about technology and funding that makes it easier for entrepreneurs to focus on their own ideas and initiatives. Norway is at the forefront of the development of financial technologies. Norwegian companies are helping to develop increasingly new green financial products. This is a market for growth and rapid change. It is a challenge to ensure that regulatory work keeps up with technology development. That is why I am pleased that the government has now established a regulatory sandbox for fintech. To put this sandbox in place has been an ongoing project since 2016. I am pleased that we were in the left in a blue-green government that finally got this in place in December 2019. Now we have to look ahead and assist the industry in a time that is difficult, but that also opens up innovation. The Korona crisis overtook Norway, while the financial market notification was finalised in government and delivered to the Stortinget. It led to major challenges to provide long-term analyses of the current and future role and challenges of the financial industry. The Coronapandemic has changed a lot about people's everyday lives, and our trade patterns have also changed. It is still difficult to see the full outlines of the changes in this field today, but I assume that the government will follow this closely and come back next year's financial market announcement with an assessment of the situation. In February, Norway reported to the United Nations that we should reduce our emissions by 50 pst. by 2030 under the Paris Agreement. We need to reduce emissions together with the EU. Yesterday we reached agreement on a green package of measures involving a stake of 3.6 billion. for a greener future, based on investments in the previous budget. At the same time, in matters that have been debated earlier today, we have also made strict demands for cutbacks in Norwegian emissions, which are to be halved by 2030. This will mean a lot, also for the financial industry. The funding of these green projects we are becoming more important than ever. We have to expect that the state capital that is now being introduced into green industries will also trigger similar investments by private actors. It strengthens the Norwegian financial industry and gives good reason to follow closely the development of the industry in the coming year. The financial industry gives people the opportunity to follow their own dreams and develop their own products and services. That's why the industry is so important to us in the left. Because it gives people the tools to decide their own future. At the same time, we know that the industry is essential for us to be able to cut greenhouse gas emissions together and take care of nature around us. As the industry helps to create greater freedom and opportunities for people, we are also committed to providing the industry with good framework conditions. It is absolutely crucial in the years to come that we have a financial industry that actively supports us during the green transition that we need and that the world is totally dependent on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1143	The situation in financial markets is marked by the outbreak of the corona virus and the uncertain economic outlook both at home and at international level. The growth rates for the Norwegian economy and the world economy have been severely reduced. The stock exchanges have fallen quickly and deeply. The oil price has fluctuated dramatically. This forms the backbone of the year’s financial market notification. The main focus of the communication is on developments prior to the coronary crisis. We have several objectives for financial market policy: It shall contribute to financial stability. It shall ensure the proper functioning of capital markets and provide good framework conditions for the financial and business sectors. It shall ensure, not least, that consumers can trust that the financial services, which are important in people’s lives, are good and safe. These objectives are consistent, although the circumstances are exceptional. Three themes are highlighted in the year’s Communication: climate risk and green finance The digitisation of financial services and fintech measures against banks and households to mitigate the risk of financial instability; Climate change and green transition affect financial markets and may have consequences for financial stability. Uniform reporting on climate risk and clear criteria for which economic activities can be considered as ‘green’ could make it easier for investors to contribute to migration. This will also enable authorities to better manage climate-related risks in financial markets. Good solutions require good cooperation with the authorities of other countries. The government has supported the objectives of the EU Commission's Sustainable Finance Action Plan and has joined the EU's international sustainable finance network. We closely follow the work of the EU and are implementing new EU legislation in Norway. Rapid developments in technology, markets and regulation enable us to see major changes in the financial market in the future. The established financial undertakings are challenged by both new fintech and large technology companies. On the authority side, too, there is innovation: here in Norway, we have put in place a regulatory sandbox in which selected actors can test their concepts. I would also like to highlight cooperation on digital solutions between the financial industry and the authorities, such as: contributed to the rapid development of the technical solutions of the compensation scheme. Historically high debt in Norwegian households continues to cause concern. Growth in consumer loans was very high for a long time, but has slowed down in recent years. In 2019, there was a clear decline in the lending growth of consumer loan banks. This still has a long way to go by 2020. At the same time, we see that the default of consumer loans is increasing. It's worrying, and we closely follow that development. Solid banks and good lending practices are good defences against increased debt. The Norwegian financial system is solid, resilient and modern. It has the user's confidence. It is a strength in today's demanding situation, and something we need to take care of and further develop through good framework conditions and reasonable requirements for financial undertakings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1190	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1195	The central party considers that it is essential that social critical infrastructure be owned and operated from Norway and that one also investigates the risks associated with the substantial absence of today’s occurrence. What's interesting about that is that it's not a vision that only the Center Party has. I have also recorded that Norway's Bank, in a report last month, first gave clear warnings that digital crime against financial corporations is increasing. It was also clear that the operation of social critical infrastructure should initially take place in Norway and that, in cases where this does not happen, clear preparedness solutions should be provided. How does the government work with the follow-up to the clear advice given by the Bank of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1202	The government works well with all the good advice that comes – whether it's from Norway's Bank, the Financial Supervisory Authority or others. Then the Ministry of Finance and the Government must make their own assessments. But there's something in the premise on the issue that's not right, because the reality is that well a quarter of the Norwegian banking market comes from foreign banks, and it's lower than it was ten years ago. There is now a higher Norwegian share than when the Senterpartiet joined the government. If you look at the foreign banks, it is mainly Finnish, Danish and Swedish, in other words Nordic banks. I agree with the representative on the great value of having strong Norwegian environments. Not least the savings banks contribute to this. With its local foothold, it means a lot to businesses all over Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1207	I thank you for the answer to a question I did not ask. It is quite right that the Central Party is occupied by Norwegian banks, but what I asked questions about is the vulnerability we have to the operation of social-critical financial infrastructure. Norway’s Bank has pointed it out, and the Swedish Treasury pointed it out in the hearing, that in a crisis situation like the one we now have, we see how important it is to have control of the basic infrastructure. My question is how to follow it up from the government, when the Bank of Norway is so clear that both digital crime against Norwegian financial corporations is increasing, and that there is a need to take action to ensure that we maintain control and reduce the vulnerability of our societies in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1212	I answered that question, namely that these are matters that the government and the Ministry of Finance are constantly working on. There are questions that Norway’s Bank is following, and there are also questions that the Financial Supervisory Authority is following up. But it is not that Norway can solve all these challenges itself. Especially when it comes to money laundering and economic crime, history has shown us that we are totally dependent on cooperation with the EU. In fact, it is precisely in these areas that it is through enhanced cooperation also on the supervisory side that we can meet many of these challenges. Here we have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. Of course, we need to ensure that we take care of the Norwegian and national interests related to infrastructure, but we also need to cooperate with the EU. This is a good example of the importance of European cooperation for business and financial institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1217	Cooperation with the EU at the same time as we have national governance and control is very sensible and, for example, does not place Norwegian financial supervision under EU governance in significant areas. But once again, what I'm asking is how we provide critical infrastructure for society. In the report, the Bank of Norway has warned significantly about the consequences of the removal of non-owned payment system from Norway and of non-payments, as seen in other areas of society. It is vital that we ensure that we have mastery in our own house, control the societally critical functions in Norway, such as: The Bank of Norway has been called upon to do so. Why is the government not willing to consider the questions and proposals of the Central Party in this regard?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1222	When the representative is so unprecise in his questions, there is also a general answer, because we are all concerned that we should both have good control over and, not least, secure the infrastructure in the financial sector. However, this is an area where we work continuously between the Bank of Norway, the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Ministry, and where we also have close cooperation with the EU. It is crucial to be able to address these challenges. There is also talk of cross-border crime, and then we need strong cooperation both on the supervisory side and on the legislative side. History has shown us that in Norway we have robust banks precisely because we use the tools we need. It also makes banks more robust in dealing with this crisis than many banks in other countries are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1233	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1238	Over several years, there has been an explosive growth in the consumption debt of families. So the government has tightened up, and now the growth is going down. Among other things, we have the prohibition of aggressive marketing, stricter requirements for lending practices and better information to the consumer, and we have put in place the debt register. This is about the social responsibility of society for our fellow human beings not to be in high debt and a failure to get out of it. Moreover, if too many households get a debt they are not able to bear, it could threaten the stability of the country's economy. One of the challenges facing many consumers is that they are in the middle of a debt crisis and have completely lost track of their debts. It is often spread across many different actors and different places. A debt register that shows all the liabilities will be able to give them the long-term and comprehensive overview in order to obtain order in their own economy. That is why we in the government parties are clear that when evaluating the debt register, we should consider including other debts, and I would like to share my assessment here and now: of course it should. For banks, the debt register will be an important tool to make an effective and accurate assessment of the ability of customers to serve any loan. It is central that no relevant information is missing when banks are required to make their assessment, for loans granted on wrong terms could have dramatic consequences for the individual unable to repay, for banks that do not receive the loan back, and not least for the country. Right is very concerned about strong consumer protection, and I have to say that I am extra worried about many young people who don't see the consequences of what consumer loans will mean for them in the long term. Too many people can ruin the dream of getting their own home and, in worst cases, ruin the economy for the rest of their lives. Especially in these corona times, many people will have challenges in paying household bills and loans, and that's why I'm very happy that we're proposing to speed up collection fees, so that people who end up in debt collection are not bombarded with completely disproportionate demands. Consumer credit banks have been given ample time and opportunity to show accountability. We have tightened up and closely follow developments in the demanding time that is now, and if necessary, we will consider further tightening. In Norway, we prepare for each other. We have a social responsibility to avoid that our fellow human beings end up in a debt crisis they never get out of, and that responsibility takes the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1255	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1261	The central party believes that the access to capital for business must be strengthened even outside the most central parts of the country. It is necessary to look at the geographical dimension and assess measures ensuring better access to capital across Norway. Possible solutions for this are not well enough mapped by the government, and I would like to remind you that the government in the Industry Communication, Meld. St. 27 for 2016-2017, announced a public inquiry into the capital adequacy of Norwegian business. It was a total finance committee as in the Inner East. 201 L for 2019-2020, in the examination of the State guarantee scheme for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, underlined the importance of closely monitoring the way these loans are granted, of reaching a broad level, of meeting the intended needs and of being subject to political follow-up. The situation is now serious for many small and medium-sized enterprises around the country. The loan scheme does not entirely meet the needs, including: through regulatory conditions which are not sufficiently consistent with the purpose of the Storting. Today’s absolute requirement may result in some companies that are expected to be profitable under normal market conditions being excluded from the loan arrangements and the conditions may exclude enterprises, contrary to the intention of the scheme. It may relate to enterprises that have undergone a process of conversion and consolidation in order to make the enterprise more solid and market-oriented. I am pleased that the Labour Party has announced its support for the resolution, proposal No. 21 and the Central Party hopes that several parties will vote in favour of this important proposal. It reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to adjust the Guarantee Facility for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises so that it does not exclude enterprises in contravention of the intention of the scheme, such as enterprises that have undergone a conversion and consolidation process in order to improve the firm’s soundness, and also to allow banks to exercise greater discretion.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1275	The representative Siv Mossleth has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1280	This matter is about a lot, but it is also about consumer loans. It's a nice thing when you can handle it and have the economy for it, but unfortunately it's a source of a lot of misfortune as well. I have been working on this for very many years here at Stortinget, also when we were in government. Then there was a proposal for a debt register ready for this government. Unfortunately, it took many years before it came into place, and when it came into place, it was a very narrow scheme that did not catch up with all kinds of loans, which should of course be recorded at the same time. If not, you do not get a complete overview of the loan portfolio that each individual has. Then it's also hard for creditors to have an overview of it, and they might then give loans to someone who shouldn't have had it. There's probably a lot of money to make in these markets as well. That means that someone almost throws loans for people who never should have had it. That is why SV has also worked to have an interest cap on this kind of unsecured debt, i.e. the creditor takes a greater risk when lending to people who obviously shouldn't have more debt, and that you look at the fees throughout the system, so that after the efficiency improvements that have now taken place in the industry, you are not allowed to continue to charge high fees for things that are digitised and now do not cost anything. This ball is really on for a lot of people. A proposal has been made in this case which deals with some of this. I am very happy that more people now include believes that all liabilities should be recorded in this debt register. It's very important that we get it in place, so that the renunciation obligations of the credit institutions can also be real. Then it has to be properly enforced, so that those who do not make the credit check properly also have to bear a higher risk sail when contributing to the debt burden that some people have and that they do not tackle at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1289	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1306	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be three replies from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1313	This issue concerns temporary changes in the law of introduction to address some of the challenges posed by the covid-19 epidemic. Provisions are proposed for extended and reinforced introduction programmes, career guidance and extended training in Norwegian. These are key areas of the introduction programme and are extremely important for those concerned. The proposed provisions are amendments to the provisional law adopted by the Stortinget on 26 May. It says something about what dynamics we stand up to, about constantly having to adapt the rules we have in different areas, in this case the introduction program. In that perspective, I am pleased that there is a great will on Stortinget to treat quickly and have a good climate when we work on this in the committee. The Progress Party does not support the proposal presented, which I suppose they themselves will explain. In addition, there is broad support for the proposal, with the exception of one point, which concerns who will be given the opportunity to have the six-month or one-year extension of the introduction programme if this is necessary to enter work or training respectively. Here, the Centre Party and SV promote their own proposal, which I also expect them to shed more light on themselves. When the government parties do not support this proposal, it is because we believe that this issue will in practice apply to relatively few, and that the proposed changes will be possible to practice. In addition, it should also be mentioned that the majority of the Committee, all but the Advance Party, who will vote against the law as a whole, are also committed to ensuring that the economic consequences for the municipalities are safeguarded. The most important thing is that, through these provisions, we take active action to ensure that the covid-19 epidemic does not have a greater negative impact on integration than is strictly necessary. The time factor is important in integration work. Waiting time and postponement provide poor motivation for those concerned, and poorer results for Norwegian society as a whole. I am therefore pleased with the broad opening up of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1328	As mentioned by the case-rapporteur, the Progress Party does not support the proposals for changes by the Government. It's because we have no faith that these measures will do anything but increase costs. We know that we already have a system that doesn't work well enough. There are too few who come into work or further education after completion of the introduction programme. Renewing only those schemes that initially do not have a very good effect will only contribute to more expenditure and not improve results. A number of support schemes have been put in place for all those affected through the crisis that has engulfed the nation. The creation of specific schemes for immigrants only in this way will only build on the fact that passivity is rewarded by new schemes. In Norway, we may need to become much clearer – especially after the crisis we have been through and in – that support schemes, adaptations, organisation and arrangements that are not required need to be reduced. We have to be better at giving clear signals that if you want to succeed in Norway, it is mainly hard work that needs to be done. The reason why I'm saying this is because we've been trying for very many years with these systems that have poor results. We just have to stop doing more of what doesn't work when we see that what we're doing doesn't work. This proposal does not receive the support of the Progress Party. It's both to save costs and because we should have given a signal that now one has to resort to self-help in order to succeed, instead of just signaling that new schemes are coming, as we already know have a bad effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1341	This proposal comes from the fact that during a critical period when the introduction programmes have had to be put on hold, there is much to be said again. It's good that you get the opportunity to take it back, and that you're also more likely to be allowed to complete what you've started. It's not all about the introduction system that's been good, and we have a lot of views on how to do it better, so that more people actually get a competence that gives them a chance to get a job or get into further education. It is essentially about allowing you to complete the runs that are part of the program you are in. There is one matter for Stortinget that we are now discussing in the committee, about permanent changes to the introduction system. There's a good deal going in the right direction, not far enough, we think, but in a positive direction there too. It has to be about what research says that if we're going to get people to work, we have to close the gap between what people can do and what their working life requires. The measures taken through Nav are also checked. Many end up on those measures after leaving the introduction scheme. There is also a lot of criticism towards it from among others. The National Audit Office and other research institutes. Most of it is that it is not a good enough plan for it, and that it is not competent enough. It's based on short courses that become much more effective than tailoring, and it's tailor-made seams that have to be far more effective if you're to succeed in this. SV would like us to succeed – and succeed even better than we do today. That's why we support these changes, except for the one distinction made between these two different groups in the law. We cannot see that there have been some very good arguments for this distinction, and believe that on the basis of an individual assessment and individual needs, it must be possible for everyone to have an extension of up to one year if you are able to carry out the skills that you are in and that you have agreed to, in order to move on whether it is at work or a further course of education. Therefore, the Centre Party and the SV wish that all those subject to this temporary law be entitled to that extension. I refer to the proposal that is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1356	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1361	The outbreak of covid-19 has led to high unemployment. Newly arrived immigrants with low formal qualifications are among those who will face challenges of coming to work in the future. The government believes that this group should stand without an offer from the autumn, perhaps at the time it is most difficult to get into the Norwegian labour market, is a very bad idea. It is much better that we make sure that they have an offer and have their skills strengthened. The government has proposed 456 million. kr for integration work, such as: shall increase efforts in the introductory programme and Norwegian training. These measures strengthen the system of the Introduction Act and therefore need to be regulated. I propose that participants who are in the final phase of the introduction programme be given the right to extended programming time of up to six months if they need extension in order to get to work or education. Those with a longer duration in the programme are entitled to revise their individual plan and to set an end target for participation. I also suggest that those who can complete advanced training within the programme can have up to four years of programming. I suggest that both those who are in the final phase of the programme, and those who have longer time left, be given the right to need-tested career guidance. Career guidance may be useful for, inter alia: determining the need for extended programming time and whether the participant’s objectives should be changed. In the light of the proposal from SV and the Central Party, I would also like to stress that it is a guiding principle in the Introduction Act that the offer should be individually adapted. It shall be adapted to the needs of the individual. That means that the need for prolongation can be very different. It may mean that regardless of the category in which you are going, the length of the extension of the teams may vary. What was important to us was to make sure that both groups could get extension, but there are probably more within one category that need longer extension. The important thing here is that a good assessment is made on a case-by-case basis. Good Norwegian knowledge is essential for transition to work or education, especially in a very challenging labour market. I therefore propose that those who finish training in Norwegian in the period from August and beyond 2020 be entitled to up to six months of extended training. I propose that the temporary law on the adaptation of the introduction law be divided into several chapters. The new provisions are proposed in Chapter 1 and provide for measures which may last for several years. That is why I propose that Chapter 1 be repealed from the time the King decides. The rules already in force are continued in Chapter 2 and repealed on 1 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1381	I'm pleased with the clarification that the Council of State gives, that there should be an opening for individual extension when that makes sense. The reason why we have proposed this is not the desire that those who are finished and ready to move on should not do so, but that the law is now clear that if there are individual needs, they should be taken care of. I found very little justification in the proposition for this distinction, other than that you were in different phases, but it's a fact that you can be in the final phase, and that's when you realize that you don't reach the goal. So does the Council of State agree that it's better to extend by one year than to get this out and maybe start over again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1388	This may seem a little more technical than it really is, but the thing is that everyone, including today, can have extended programming time by up to one year. Then we see that the municipalities might use this space of action little, and that's also a little bit of the reason why we're now proposing a further extension. It shouldn't be that those who have already had a one-year extension don't have the opportunity to extend this very special harvest, that they don't use up their rights, to explain it that way. So it was important to make sure that both groups could get an opportunity to extend. The possibility of extending the programme is the same, but it is then required – if you want a full year – that it should be realistic to be able to complete higher education in order to get that extension. This is also a distinction in the proposal for a new law on integration. But the important thing here is, as I also said in my post, that an individual assessment should be made based on what you need. We believe that with this, we meet the all, the most, and the need they have for prolongation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1395	It is good that an extension can be made where appropriate. But it costs money, and the Council of State points out that here it seems that the municipality is not using this possibility very much. It can be about money, but it can be about other things as well. That's why I have to ask about the money: It's quite right that the crisis packages have put money into this now, but there may be an increase in expenses until next year. Is it the case that the government is now thinking of this calculation and of the future of the municipalities in this crisis package, or will this also be assessed against the next year's budget, so that it can be covered if it turns out that more people are actually using this possibility of expansion that is now being opened up?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1401	In the funding provided to municipalities to receive immigrants and to provide the introduction programme, funding is already in place for possible expansion. But, as Andersen's representative also points out, because we see that this is being used little, we're now adding an extra 456 million. kr in the revised national budget. If this mechanism is to be extended, it would be natural to have a discussion about adding an additional reinforcement to new budgets, but we will have to come back to that at that time. I would also like to stress that this is an extraordinary situation in which perhaps many – more than usual – have to change the races they are inside. It may be that someone has now gone a race where they have qualified for a profession, for example. in the restaurant, food or tourist industries, where it appears to be very difficult to obtain relevant work this autumn. So now it's probably even more than usual that's going to have to review their goals, and maybe reconsider exactly what they're qualifying for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1408	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1427	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be a reply of up to three replies from members of the government, and those who have signed up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1434	The World Health Organization declared on 11 March that the outbreak of the covid-19 disease is a pandemic and is serious for the international community. The next day, March 12, the government decided to impose a series of restrictions on our country. The management of the covid-19 epidemic needs to be addressed in such a way that we constantly control the spread of infection and have good health preparedness for our own populations. By decision of the King of State Council three days later, i.e. On 15 March of this year, strict restrictions were introduced on the right of foreigners to enter Norway. Norway has control of infection by today's date, but covid-19 will still be a threat to public health until there is sufficient immunity in the population, or there is a lead vaccine. Intrusion restrictions are a more intrusive measure than, for example, use of extra quarantine, but enforcement is considerably easier. In addition to limiting the number of visitors, it will reduce the overall mobility of people in society and thus also the spread of infection. Therefore, entry restrictions are preferable. At the request of the EU, the European countries participating in the Schengen cooperation have introduced strict restrictions on the right of entry of third-country nationals. In addition, many Schengen countries have imposed restrictions on access to entry across the internal borders of the EU. The government has indicated that there will be a gradual easing from the Norwegian side, but at the same time suggests that there is a need to continue the use of restrictions on immigration for some time to come. At present, the restrictions on entry have been regulated in a regulation, the so-called expulsion regulation, based on the infectious diseases laws. The proposal in today's motion for a resolution is a temporary law on restrictions of entry for foreign citizens for the sake of public health. The recommendation of the Committee shall be the subject of a joint committee, with the exception of point (b) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 and the second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 6. The Progress Party and the Socialist Left have their own comments and suggestions on the matter, and I expect them to do their own thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1447	We've been through a very difficult time, and that's all possible reason to both praise the government and show understanding of all the difficult balances that have been made, and all the difficult assessments of what to impose restrictions on and not. It's probably going to be debated for a very long time in the future what was right and wrong, but at least a lot has been done right. In this case, the Progress Party disagrees with the government's decision to exempt asylum seekers from the restrictions on entry. There will not be many asylum seekers today; that is quite right – the last three weeks have probably come around 30 – but during the period we are in, the costs are much higher per asylum seeker. We've been through a period when we've had to provide adequate preparedness for our own people, who were also in the midst of the previous speeches. We know that there is a fully equipped medical centre in the reception centre that could have been set aside for other preparedness, and we also know that due to the restrictions on infection and quarantine, the UDI now needs to expand its reception capacity considerably, during a time when there are very few asylum seekers, which is very costly. If we look a little bit at what this really costs us in life-cycle costs for those who come in a normal situation, those 30 who have come in three weeks through this period, through a deep economic crisis for the country, will impose an estimated life-cycle cost of about 325 million. kr. That's a lot of money. That's money we should have failed to impose in a deep economic crisis. Asylum seekers entering the border in Norway have, in almost all cases, been through a wide range of safe countries, both in which they could and should have applied for protection or where they have had protection. In that case, it would not be a serious breach of neither international obligations nor other conventions to refuse the processing of asylum applications in such an exceptional situation as has now occurred. It will actually be a completely wrong signal to give that asylum seekers are exempted from entry restrictions when all other citizens have had to sacrifice a lot, and most of them have been denied their rights. Then it should also apply to everyone, to give a signal that people will perceive as fair. With that, I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1460	The representative Jon Engen-Helgheim has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1465	SV is pleased that the government is insisting that people seeking protection from war, who have sacrificed everything, should also be able to get through the boundaries of the sea when there is a pandemic situation. So I'm very pleased that the government has stood by it and sees that there is a need to take, even in such a crisis situation. So it's completely possible to have people who come from abroad in quarantine. And yes, there are enough people who have sacrificed a lot in this country, but it's not like it's been a suffering story for everyone, so I think we're going to tone it down a little bit. SV has believed that we should now open the way for those who have been given a stay in Norway through family reunification to come in after these new provisions. I expect that there are many more people than I have who have received all these enquiries from families that are divided, and who have to live individually for a very long time, where it is quite possible for people to go in and get quarantined and should not pose any risk of infection at all. The right to family and the right to free movement are also human rights, and there must be substantial and heavy reasons for their being set aside. We believe that there is little reason now to continue exempting third-country nationals who have received an application for family reunification from the entry ban. And then there's a couple of other points that we've been critical of. One is to ignore the fact that the expulsion decision is to be written. It has something to do with being able to complain about a case, and it is very difficult to complain about a case if there is nothing written about. It's a legal security problem, and I hope the Council of State might say a little bit about that, for seas in crisis situations, it's important to keep things in order. The second is whether there is a need now for something other than an emergency law to decide that there is someone other than the police who will have authority to expel. We don't think that's done well enough. It is quite serious things to give police authority to, among other things. the military. In that case, SV believes that the investigation should have been more thorough, so that Stortinget had also been given the opportunity to have a more thorough treatment, the possibility of having hearings, etc., in order to implement such a radical change. That is why I am addressing the proposal from SV, which is promoted in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1480	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1485	I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposed law on restrictions of entry relating to the handling of the covid-19 pandemic. I would like to stress that although the proposal proposes that the law should apply out of October, it is in no way certain that restrictions on entry will be needed until that date. However, the legislative proposal ensures that certain restrictions can be maintained if it actually proves necessary. The government understands the difficulties of these restrictions, both for individuals, for business and for cultural life. That is why we have gradually softened the restrictions on entry introduced in March. Until now, only a limited number of categories have been granted an application for family reunification and have been granted a right of entry. On the basis of the health evaluations, ongoing evaluations are now being carried out in order to further open up. The Prime Minister will give news of this at the press conference later today. Several European countries now propose to raise the restrictions at internal borders before a joint decoration is planned for third-country travellers. We have sacrificed a lot to control Norway, and we see that this effort has produced results. We are therefore committed to making a controlled and gradual relaxation in the restrictions on entry. In the proposal, we have proposed that the general rules on who can enter Norway be laid down by law, but that detailed rules may be given in the regulation. It will provide flexibility to adjust the rules in line with the development of infection. It's important that we open up step by step, so that we can evaluate the embellishment we're doing, and then evaluate whether there's any basis for further embellishment. As part of the European Community, Norway wishes to coordinate the processes with those of other EU and Schengen countries. However, it must be done gradually and at the rate allowed by the infective situation. Not all countries can move just as quickly, and so in the future we have to look at some differences from country to country, depending on the infection situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1500	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1517	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be a reply of up to three replies from members of the government, and those who have signed up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1522	The aim of this bill is to facilitate the implementation of statutory tasks by housing teams, law-enforcement teams and owner-participants without compromising the requirements and recommendations that health authorities have now given as a follow-up to the covid-19 outbreak. This involves making exceptions to the requirements of the Housing Building Act, the Law on Law on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws and Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws and Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws The legislative proposal further facilitates electronic communication with part- and section-owners, regardless of whether they have pre-consented electronic communications. In addition, the legislative proposal provides for a destination to extend the deadline for holding the general meeting and annual meeting in 2020 to 31 August. At the hearing, it was suggested that permanent changes to the promises should make housing promises technology neutral. This proposition dealt with temporary changes to promises, but the recordings revealed that some problem settings require more clarification. The Ministry has announced proposals for permanent changes to the laws, and that there will be a new hearing before treatment at Stortinget. During the examination of the temporary law, the members of the Committee have been concerned that the solutions chosen must be capable of ensuring that part- and section-owners have the possibility of retaining their interests. It has been suggested that the choice of solutions has a functionality that ensures high participation, and that it will be strenuous to offer case papers to sections and shareholders who do not have digital competence, including in this temporary situation we are currently facing. In order to clarify this clearly, the Committee would like the text of the law to refer to this as well. With this, I'm going to point out that Prop. 128 L for 2019-2020 is immediately proposed, with effect until 1 November 2020. There is a joint committee that supports this. With this option, I recommend you to use this option.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1535	I would like to thank the Committee for very good cooperation in this matter. We have dealt with several issues relating to digitisation. For most of us, at least in many situations, digitization is very nice, but for some people, it's going to be a new hard bend. I have received many enquiries from older people who do not have access to the PC or the ICT sea, and who have not received calls that have come, and who do not have the opportunity to attend at all as important anniversaries as annual meetings are in housing law or owner-in-law. It's about their home, and then it's very important that their rights are not set aside. Therefore, during the treatment I was very concerned that we had to get this in, that they had at least the right to have the summons and other documents sent on paper. When I read the proposition, I also saw that it was implicitly there, and therefore it was important that we wrote it a little more clearly, because I don't think there are so many who are going to practise this temporary law, which sits and reads neither the precursors of the law nor our comments, but the text of the law will be read, and then it will be understood. I also hope that we will continue to work on such matters – because I am in order for us to open up digital solutions permanently in many areas – while at the same time ensuring that there are manual solutions for those who do not master the new digital platforms and do not make them work. I think that's what many of us have experienced in this corona era, where we've been sitting and going to attend meetings and it's clicked both here and there. Although we think that we have some competence, and even have a lot of staff to help us make it work, it sometimes clicks. That means that we can't put everything on this when it goes so deep into people's privacy and the private ownership of their home. But it also applies in other areas. So I'm asking the Storting that we should be obsessing about this in the future. It's probably going to be a little bit of double work, but it's going to have to be in place, otherwise it's not equal. It is very important that the laws we adopt here do not create distinctions between people, nor in the digital field.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1548	Now that we've got control of the spread of infection, we're reopening society -- gradually, controlled and together. But no one knows how long we want to be infected in society, and how long we have to deal with infectious diseases. For the duration of the guidelines and rules on the protection of infection, it is difficult to hold a general meeting or an annual meeting of housing teams, housing teams and owner-occupiers. It's hard to plan when we don't know how the pandemic develops. It is difficult to implement when there are strict rules on distance and cleaning, and it is difficult to facilitate participation when someone refuses to attend physical meetings. The Government therefore considers that there is a need for two interim measures: Firstly, there is a need to extend the temporary derogations from the physical attendance requirement provided for in the Korona Regulation from 27 March to 27 May. Physical attendance has several advantages, and many residents want to meet their neighbors face to face. But in the situation we are in now, it will help many housing teams, housing teams and communities to have flexibility to conduct digital meetings if you want to. I state that a prerequisite for the proposal is that no unit-holders or section-holders fall outside the scope of decisions. In order to ensure this, the provisional law imposes requirements on the decision-making processes. In addition, a Joint Committee has clarified that section and unit-holders wishing to summon and other documents sent on paper shall be entitled to do so. I would also like to emphasise that the temporary removal of the legal barriers to digital meetings does not, of course, prohibit physical meetings. Secondly, there is a need to extend the statutory deadline for meetings this year. Although it is again possible to have physical meetings with many participants, we know that there are many who have not completed the meetings – and it has become difficult to repeat all of these before the end of June. The Government therefore proposes a deadline of 31 August. I am pleased that there seems to be consensus in the Committee on the need for provisional law and that the Committee has dealt with the proposal so quickly. Finally, I would like to mention that the government will come back to Stortinget with proposals for permanent changes so that the housing laws become technology neutral.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1569	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1586	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, up to five replies from members of the government will be given, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1593	The outbreak of covid-19 has created challenges for many societal functions, including the courts. The proposals contained in this proposal facilitate the safe and orderly settlement of cases by courts and other actors in the justice sector. The proposed legal provisions both complement, complement and derogate from certain procedural rules in particular. the dispute law, criminal procedure law and judicial law, and will facilitate the implementation of cases in various ways, while ensuring the protection of infectious diseases. The proposal opens up several methods of service. Some types of messages, such as: the notification of a judgment or the convocation of sighted persons or witnesses to legal proceedings is being served today as notices having specific formal requirements. Today’s form requirements do not allow for telephone, videoconferencing or e-mail service. This bill opens up this possibility. The proposal also opens up to facilitate the transfer of cases between courts if the covid-19 situation makes this necessary. Movement may be appropriate if a court of law has to close or has so low a staff that it is not appropriate or appropriate to deal with cases before a court or if the execution of certain legal proceedings would be difficult. In the cases where the court is not closed, it is assumed that the case may be moved only if the court itself so wishes and the parties to the proceedings and the court receiving the case have had the opportunity to make their views known. The proposal proposes to provide a further opening for written proceedings in the event of a change in the law, compared with the law in force, and the draft law provides for an opening for the courts to decide that, in new cases, co-judgments may be withdrawn from the municipality where the court meeting is to be held or from the municipalities closest to that municipality and to amend the rules for convening judges. It is important, however, that the principle of random selection of co-judges should also be pursued by such a type of convocation. The legislative proposal extends access to the matters that may be dealt with by acknowledgment. This may mean that more cases can be resolved in a shorter time and with fewer persons present than under normal legal proceedings. The bill also expands the Riksadvokat's opportunity to constitute state lawyers on a temporary basis. An overall committee notes that the legislative proposal does not involve proposals to reduce the number of laypersons in the law, as proposed in the Court’s hearing notes. As the infection protection recommendations for a distance of two metres between persons have now been reduced, it will be easier to carry out legal proceedings in courts that were too small for a period of time to be used during the covid-19 outbreak. I would like to thank the entire Committee for its good cooperation in this matter, although the deadlines have been very short. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by an overall committee, with the exception of new §6(c), promoted by the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1614	The Committee has examined proposals for amendments to the temporary law on adaptations to the procedural legislation resulting from the covid-19 pandemic. The proposals contained in the proposal complement the interim amendments previously adopted and facilitate the settlement of cases by courts and other actors in the justice sector in a safe and sound manner following the outbreak of infection. The aim of the amendments already adopted and proposed is to ensure a sound procedure without excessive delays as a result of the pandemic. There is broad consensus in the Committee that temporary rules on electronic service and telephone service can be introduced. This is supported by all the hearing bodies, and it is also pointed out that these solutions have been widely opened in Sweden and Denmark before the covid-19 situation arose. The legislative proposal specifies that caution must be exercised in the provision of sensitive e-mail information. Furthermore, it is clarified that telephone service is best suited to simple messages and not to communicate complex judgments. There is also a broad consensus in the Committee that we need more flexible rules for the transfer of cases between parallel courts, the withdrawal and summoning of co-judges, the right of the National Attorney to constitute state lawyers, more use of written proceedings in land change cases and increased access to the simplified treatment of criminal cases when the intention was to admit the criminal offence. The settlement of cases in the courts has been greatly reduced as a result of the outbreak. The changes that have already been made and those adopted here today will help the courts to deal with as many cases as possible while ensuring the protection of infection and the safety of all those involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1625	I'll take the word quite briefly. It's not that much to add here, the committee has largely agreed on these points, we just vary in a couple of places, which I'll explain to you. We in SV have expressed some doubts about changing the rules of service, i.e. using the telephone, because we are concerned that we should be absolutely sure that those who receive these messages receive the messages correctly. That is why we have put in a proposal that wants the Department to develop a form of guidance or a checklist, so that you are absolutely sure that the ministry is understood correctly. There may be people at the other end who may be in an uproar, in a rush, are mentally ill or otherwise, and we have to be absolutely sure that doing so is understood in a proper way. In addition, we believe that the kind of service it opens up here should be added, not as a substitute for, the existing procedures. You might be able to use it where it's necessary, but not as a substitute for the existing procedures. And with that, I'm going to make that proposal. With regard to the point of acknowledgment sentences, we do not wish to support the proposal for a new Section 6(c), which extends access to acknowledgment sentences. We agree that, on a more general basis, it is appropriate to consider how the courts should open confessional judgments, but we do not think it is necessary to do so as part of a speedy procedure now. I believe that neither in this case nor in any other matter we have dealt with in the judicial committee related to covid-19 has been made so obvious that it has been necessary to put in place rapid procedures. The Minister of Justice, from this Parliament and also in writing to the Committee, has said that the crime scene has neither increased nor changed significantly. We believe that the introduction of new procedures for acknowledgment judgments by means of a rapid procedure does not provide sufficient legal certainty and adequate handling of those cases in a proper manner. Therefore, SV does not wish to support the proposal for a new §6c.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1634	The representative Petter Eide then drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1639	The measures introduced following the covid-19 outbreak continue to have a negative impact on the settlement of cases in the courts. Operation in the courts almost stopped completely in the period after 13 March, and a large number of court meetings were postponed or cancelled. Although the case resolution has increased as a result of temporary legislative changes and changes in infectious diseases recommendations, there are still challenges related to the possibility of cases being resolved by the courts. It is important that we avoid building up large amounts in the courts which may affect the length of the procedure for a long time in the future, even after the recommendations on infectious diseases are deleted. On 26 May, the Stortinget provisionally passed the law on adaptations to the process legislation as a result of the outbreak of covid-19 etc. The Act, which entered into force on 27 May 2020, lays down rules on, inter alia: enhanced access to the use of remote meetings, written processing and electronic signature solutions. The proposals contained in the proposal complement the temporary amendments adopted and further facilitate the resolution of cases by courts and other actors in the justice sector in a safe and sound manner following the outbreak of infection. The proposals open inter alia: for electronic service and telephone service. It will be more effective and infective than the current methods of service. The proposals have been widely welcomed in the hearing and are based on input from, among others, even the courts of the Member States as to what legislative adaptations are needed. This bill will help to increase case resolution and improve the ability of the courts to carry out their social tasks. In a well-functioning state of law and for the legal certainty of each individual citizen, it is essential that matters be dealt with in a secure manner and within a reasonable time. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1650	The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1655	One of the proposed legislative changes in this proposition opens up the possibility of moving cases between the district courts if the covid-19 situation makes it necessary. The removal of proceedings may be relevant if a court has to close or has so low a staff that it is not appropriate or appropriate to deal with cases before the Court or if the execution of certain legal proceedings would be difficult. 15 of today’s 60 district courts have only one judge, and these will be particularly vulnerable to possible closure in an infectious situation and in the case of sickness among employees. That is why it is good that we now make it possible for cases to be moved to the courts nearby, so that those involved in legal disputes can settle the matter as soon as possible and do not have to live in uncertainty because the case is being put at risk. I notice that the Central Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party also support this change. That's why I find it strange that these parties are going against the government's judicial reform where we're just proposing to keep all the warehouses, but put together jurisdictions, so that cases can be moved more easily between nearby courts when there's a need for it. It is not just during the covid-19 period that judges can get sick, or there are suddenly many cases coming to a court. Even before covid-19, there were long queues in several courts, and today's legislation unfortunately gives the courts little opportunity to relieve each other. The National Audit Office describes the situation in the courts as very serious, and they point out that the courts have to be given the opportunity to move cases between themselves in order to reduce the queues. This has now been proposed by the government, but the opposition has already said no to the proposal before it has arrived at the Stortinget. For me and the Left this is incomprehensible, and it will unfortunately last and last go beyond ordinary people who have to wait too long to have their case dealt with in court.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1668	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1685	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1705	Councillor Iselin Nybø will transfer 3 kgl. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1716	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1725	Case No. 1 is the third reading of legislative acts and concerns legislative acts 120 with the adopted statement at the meeting of the European Parliament on 8 June 2020. It is therefore contested by the legislative decision with the adopted remark from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1737	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved by the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1746	Case No. 2 is the second processing of laws and applies to legislation 132. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1760	A total of 29 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 4-10, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Greens and Reds the proposals No 11–15, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 16, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 17-24, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 25-29, from Bjørn Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26 and 27, from Red. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to join with industry and the trade union movement in signing a joint social contract underpinning strong crisis measures and public appropriations. Such a social contract shall be based on the following assumptions: The State commits to investments that replace lost oil investment, job guarantee and income protection for all in oil-related industries, and active use of state ownership to maintain and recover domestic industrial activities throughout Norway. Enterprises commit themselves to the cessation of profits for private investors, to the priority of environmentally friendly and long-term investments, and to the assignment of Norwegian subcontractors and to Norwegian and industrial standards for pay and working conditions.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to set aside 500 billion. SPU crowns as a national green industrial fund for long-term strategic investment in Norwegian industrial production, with the aim of ensuring technological development, increased exports of goods, more industrial jobs, increased value creation and more further processing in Norway.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1807	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25, 28 and 29, from Red. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government requests the repurchase of Equinor shares with the aim of achieving full ownership of the company, liquidating foreign investment in oil and gas projects and constructing the company as an industrial locomotive for value creation in Norway.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to extend the period of leave to 52 weeks in order to maintain competence in the supply industry and other sectors.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the decision to shut down the production plant on the beaches of Lake Sandness is reversed.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1836	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 24, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to determine whether the petroleum tax return is to be converted into a purely cash flow tax on a permanent basis.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to file a case on the landing of the oil from the Johan Castberg field for Stortinget at the latest in connection with the State budget for 2021.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1860	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 19–23, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the provision of liquidity to petroleum companies through one of the existing loan arrangements established in the spring of 2020 or by other means to provide loans on market terms. The country shall assess the associated climate risk.’;» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for stricter control activities in order to avoid scandalous projects, and in particular for risky solutions for which the Community has to take the bill, and to return to Stortinget with them by the state budget of 2021 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals that favourably differentiate climate-friendly investments in the petroleum tax, e.g.: by granting the exemption only to those projects involving real emission reductions. Consideration shall also be given to whether well-tuning can benefit from the same differentiation.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in dialogue with operators to have an undertaking to reduce the emissions of oil and gas production on Norwegian pst by 50 pst. by 2030 compared with 1990, and return to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain with it at the latest by the revised national budget 2021.’» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with operators on a Norwegian base to define a year as the limit for when all new fields of PUD are to have net zero emissions technology and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The government is asking the government to remain silent as a requirement for electrification in the decision of the PUD. Electrification shall be made profitable through an increased CO 2 tax. A CO 2 fund is established to which the increased CO 2 fee is paid and which is used to finance projects to cut emissions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1913	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that, in the light of the improved investment and activity tax environment, rightholders choose contract strategies that emphasise security of supply, proximity, Norwegian HMS standards, as well as the use of skilled workers and apprentices.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1928	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draft a legislative amendment proposal to eliminate the right to deduct from the special tax on petroleum communications, and to come back with this in the context of the State budget for 2021.’» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1945	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11, 12, 14 and 15, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government requests the removal of the revenue as long as immediate expenditure is allowed.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the government to investigate the establishment of hydrogen production in Finnmark.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the possibility of direct investment in sea wind in 2020 and for five years in the future’.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce the possibility of paying the tax on any losses from investments in sea wind in 2020 and five years in the future’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e1977	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-10, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to lower the threshold for the temporary amendments to the Petroleum Tax Act when PUDs and PADer are to be dealt with in the Stortinget, from 20 billion. 10 billion dollars. kronor and return to Stortinget with this at the latest by the end of June. The reduced threshold for surrenders to the Storting shall apply for as long as the temporary amendments to the Petroleum Tax Act.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that petroleum companies integrate climate risk into their ordinary activities and report on this in line with the TCFD Framework, as already done for financial investments through the Norwegian Bank and the Swedish Social Security Fund, during 2021.’» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to map oil wells with an unknown position and return to Stortinget with a commitment to the development of new technology and commercialisation for well-plugging.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a programme for the study of oil wells, managed by the Norwegian Research Council. It's to be granted 200 million. for the purpose of the State budget per year for the next 5 years.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests that offshore supply ships be required for low emission solutions from 2025, zero emissions from 2030 and that the first hydrogen-powered ship be put into service no later than 2022.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the petroleum companies do not pay dividends as long as a temporary change in the petroleum tax is effective.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the petroleum companies do not buy back their own shares as long as a temporary change in the petroleum tax is in operation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2025	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to enter into an agreement with the petroleum companies’ trade association for 2020 and 2021 to freeze bonus payments and wage increases for senior employees, as long as the temporary change in the petroleum tax is effective.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal to amend the Shares Act and the General Shares Act temporarily so as to correct the dividend base for 2020 and 2021 for the liquidity relief granted to petroleum companies. the temporary change in the first paragraph of Section 11 of the Petroleum Tax Act.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to limit access for the repurchase of petroleum companies’ shares for 2020 and 2021, corresponding to the total liquidity relief paid to petroleum companies. the temporary change in the first paragraph of Section 11 of the Petroleum Tax Act.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2138	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2151	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2165	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. I The government is asking the government to ensure that further priority of well-plugging is given to updating the OG21 strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2218	It's going to go over B, IX. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2232	It's going to go over B, other Roman numerals. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2291	A total of 21 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 3-5, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 6, by Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 7-13, from Sigbjørn Gülsvik on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 14, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 15, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 16, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and Red Party the proposals No 18-20, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 17, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 21, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on Amendment No 17, tabled by the Socialist Left and the Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking whether the bank’s credit is socio-economically favourable and assesses the appropriateness of a quota scheme for banks’ loans for different sectors.’» [[credit guidance]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2339	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 to 20, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government requests a reassessment of whether the requirement for increased systemic risk buffer should be deferred and reported back to the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to consider how to reintroduce the shadowing scheme and what steps the size and government can take to achieve this, and to return to Stortinget with a case like this by spring 2021 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for experience with the guarantee scheme for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and to consider similar schemes as part of business policy’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2366	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-one, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to adjust the Guarantee Facility for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises so that it does not exclude enterprises in contravention of the intention of the scheme, such as enterprises that have undergone a conversion and consolidation process in order to improve the firm’s soundness, and also to allow banks to exercise greater discretion.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2383	There is a vote on proposal No. 16 from the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that any link to an EU supervisory structure against money laundering and terrorist financing is ensured by the Norwegian Space for Action and does not entail the relinquishing of sovereignty to EU or EEA bodies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2399	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the government to investigate the introduction of differentiated systemic risk buffer requirements and to notify the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the Financial Market Communication 2021.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2414	There is a vote on Amendment No 14, tabled by the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a sample to assess how to increase the market shares of banks and financial institutions resident in Norway, and to return to the United Kingdom with a notification by the spring of 2022 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2429	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7–13, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the risk of outsourcing of IT systems to operators abroad and how central ICT providers and data centres can best be supervised.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for critical financial IT infrastructure to be operated from Norway.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals that further reduce banks’ access to risk outside the core business.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the establishment of a state-owned green investment bank and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget no later than the spring of 2021 with a proposal to prohibit the marketing of consumer loans.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The Government is asked to return to Stortinget as soon as possible and no later than the spring of 2021 with a proposal to prohibit return commissions.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal on the introduction of ceilings in Norway in the context of the State budget for 2021.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2477	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess a special lending programme for the banks under the direction of Norway’s Bank and the extended duration of F-loans.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2492	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government in dialogue with the business community is asking for broad reporting on climate risk, adapted to the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures [[TCFD]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to report on climate risk in the Norwegian economy in each state budget.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to entrust the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority with the task of running climate risk stress tests in Norwegian financial institutions. Financial supervision needs to identify and analyse climate change impacts for financial risk in Norway.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2519	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explain how the framework conditions for and regulation of the financial sector can be changed in order to promote migration and climate change, and to give greater emphasis to climate and climate risks in the credit process.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a concrete proposal to extend the debt register in the context of the State budget for 2021.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2567	It shall be counted against II. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2581	It shall be counted against I, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2599	During the debate, Karin Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Temporary law 26 May 2020 No 53 on adaptations to the Introduction Act to remedy the consequences of an outbreak of covid-19 § 2, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Participants who started the introduction programme before 1 January 2019 are entitled to extend the programme by up to one year, if each person needs such an extension in order to enter a job or training.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2731	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2743	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2757	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2769	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Jon Engen-Helgheim on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that third-country nationals who have received an application for family reunification be exempted from the entry ban.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2795	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that asylum seekers also be subject to the entry ban and that the right of asylum be suspended until the restrictions resulting from the covid-19 virus are abolished.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2952	It is contested by paragraph 2, first paragraph, point (b). The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2966	The second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 6 shall be deleted. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2980	The remainder of sections 2 and 6 and the other paragraphs are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e2990	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3000	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3098	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3109	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3121	During the debate, Mr Eide put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a guide or checklist for telephone calls, cf. new Section 12(b) of the Act amending the Temporary Law on adaptations to the Process Code as a result of the outbreak of covid-19 etc. [[announcement, etc.]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3281	It is votered over I, new § 6c. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3295	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3305	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3315	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3386	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3396	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3429	The President will propose that the proposal for a representative be forwarded to the Financial Committee. The representative of the Bears Moxnes has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3436	I ask that the proposal for advances to the unemployed be dealt with in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure and be included on the agenda for the Monday meeting. It's about the security networks for the unemployed, which Stortinget wanted to ensure. It's urgent. If the Storting does not want to be in an emergency procedure, I hope we in the Financial Committee can get a quick treatment there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3441	Then I understood the representative, Mr Moxnes, that he is proposing that this should be dealt with in accordance with § 39(c) of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3446	Yes, that's our proposal – for Monday's meeting. This applies to payments before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3451	It is wetted over the procedure. Alternatively, the President's proposal to send the proposal to the Financial Committee and the Red's proposal to examine the proposal under Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3465	Further references were made: 5th@item: inlistbox Representatives of the Landfill Representatives Helge André Njåstad, Jon Georg Dale and Terje Halleland to change the tax on hydropower in order to increase profitable investments (Document 8:125 S [[385]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : To be sent to the Financial Committee. 6th@item: inlistbox Amendments to the Civil Code [[386]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : To be sent to the Municipal and Management Committee. 7th@item: inlistbox Amendments to the Law on Social Security [[387]] [[2019-2020]] Eight. Temporary law amending the electoral law to remedy the consequences of the covid-19 outbreak [[388]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : No. 7 and 8 shall be sent to the Control and Constitutional Committee. 9th@item: inlistbox Exports of defence equipment from Norway in 2019, export control and international non-proliferation cooperation (Report. [[389]] [[2019-2020]] St. 25 Onest. : To be sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-12.ana.ud7e3492	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
