ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-02.ana.ud544e120	In accordance with the Constitution, the King gives this message to the Norwegian State and Government in the run-up to the last message. 2020 has been a demanding year. On 12 March, the most interventional measures in peacetime were put in place. The pandemic and infectious diseases measures have had major consequences for individuals, businesses and organisations. Related schools and kindergartens have frames of vulnerable children. The elders have been isolated from their closest. Many companies lost their ignition, and unemployment rose to the highest level in several generations. As measures to protect infection and spread infection were reduced, measures were gradually stepped down. In the phase of opening up society, the government has prioritised children and young people and working life. The late summer has shown that there is still a risk of infection with several local outbreaks. The long-term consequences of the pandemic we still don't know the extent of. Norway and the world are still in a demanding and uncertain situation. We must be on the verge of new outbreaks. Many are designed to provide security for workers and businesses and to avoid an even stronger economic downturn. The crisis packages together with the reopening have facilitated the recovery of activity in the Norwegian economy. The unemployment rate has fallen rapidly, but there are still too many unemployed. In May, the government presented the strategy for Norway's way out of the crisis: creating more and including more. Measures will help more people return to work, more investment in climate and environmental action, more investment in education and skills and more inclusion in the labour market. In the handling of the covid-19 pandemic, there is a series of short-term and uncertain decisions. It's been necessary to adjust some of them along the way. With today's knowledge, some decisions could have been different. The government still assesses it so that they override the options that were taken. The virus outbreak has shown the importance of good international cooperation and strong international organisations. Norway is a driver of international efforts to establish mechanisms to ensure the availability and fair distribution of vaccines. Norway has been elected to the UN Security Council from January 2021 to December 2022. On 1 October of this year, we began as an observer. Norway will pay particular attention to the use of peace diplomacy, the inclusion of women and the protection of civilians and work to discuss climate-related security threats in the Security Council. The government has submitted a new long-term plan for the defence sector. In the last year, Norway has participated in military operations in Afghanistan, Iraq and Mali. The new intelligence service law, which was adopted in June, will strengthen our independent intelligence agency. Norway has had an incorrect practice of the rules to include sickness benefits, redundancy benefits and care allowances from Norway to another EEA country. Many have been subjected to unfair repayment claims, and some have also been reported and convicted. Hausten 2019, the government's inaugural government, an external selection that has examined the matter. The learning point from the selection is now being followed up. From 1 January 2020, 19 counties were 11. An important objective of regional reform is to increase the capacity and competence of local authorities to take better care of their tasks. This autumn, the renewal of the profession and the introduction of new curriculums for initial and continuing training began. The government continues its efforts to develop the skills of kindergarten and school teachers and has strengthened its capacity for higher education. The implementation of police reform has strengthened the quality of police work. In almost seven years, the government has increased the number of police officers by about 2,500. The government has submitted a national health and hospital plan for 2020-2023. Furthermore, the government has submitted proposals for a new law on e-Health. The laws will help to strengthen and facilitate digitisation in the healthcare sector. The government has also presented an action plan for the general medical services with a mandatory escalation plan for the period 2020-2024. From 1 September 2020, children’s allowances for children under six were increased by DKK 3600 per year. The increase is helping to strengthen the family economy and means most for families with low incomes. The government has presented changes to child protection laws to enhance the quality of child protection work and to strengthen the legal security of children and families. In April, the government concluded an agricultural agreement with the industry, following a simplified debate. Activities in road and rail construction and maintenance are still high, and work on rail reform is continuing. The competition for rail traffic will provide passengers with a better supply. Norway was the third country in the world to report a stronger climate change target under the Paris Agreement. Norway's enhanced 2030 climate target is to reduce emissions by at least 50 pst. and up to 55 pst. compared to 1990 levels. The outbreak of the virus led to unrest in financial markets, and the Norwegian krona weakened significantly. The turbulence has gone down and the crown has stabilised, but is still weaker than last year. A weak krona enjoys a competitive edge for Norwegian competitive business. After two years of rather moderate price growth, housing prices fall somewhat after virus outbreak. The price drop was less than expected and is now more than reclaimed. Household debt growth has decreased in recent years, but the debt is still high and makes the Norwegian economy vulnerable. The government has taken action to reduce the development of household debt, both for consumption and housing. The current external balance surplus was 145 billion. kr in 2019, and decreased from 252 billion. kr in 2018. The average wage growth from 2018 to 2019 was 3.5 pst. Wages and salaries are higher than consumption prices, and real wages and salaries after tax are 1.5 pst. last year. Consumer prices were 1.2 pst. higher in the period January to August of the year than in the same period last year. In 2019, the value creation in the petroleum sector amounted to 15 pst. of Norway's gross domestic product and its net cash flow from the petroleum industry was 257 billion. kr. Sickness absence was stable from 2018 to 2019. Adjusted for influenza and coronary diagnosis, the absence of the disease decreased slightly in the second quarter of 2020. One of the objectives of the IA agreement is to reduce sick leave by 10 pst. from 2018. The population in Norway continued to grow in 2019, but at a lower rate than the annual average since 2010. Net immigration went up last year. In 2019, the population increased by about 39,000 people, and by just under 65 pst. come from net immigration. In 2019, 54,495 children were born. That was 625 fewer than in 2018. Money market entries have fallen somewhat, following a significant flow of liquidity from central banks. Norwegian money market interest rates are now the lowest in the world. At the end of the first half of 2020, central government pension funds had a combined market value of 10 655 billion. kr, an increase of 302 billion. kr since the beginning of the year. In September, the government presented the annual fund message. The big deal is dealing with the annual reports on the State pension fund to support the long-term investment strategy and to facilitate us to stick to the chosen strategy, even in periods of market turmoil. The government-reduced selection that has gone through the ethical framework of the State pension fund abroad delivered its release on 15 June this year. The guidelines for observation and exclusion are central to the framework of the Fund and are important for the legitimacy of the Fund. The report was sent on 24 June. In response to the economic downturn following the outbreak of the virus, a temporary system of wage support for enterprises has been put in place with a view to speeding up the number of outpatients. At the same time, a temporary compensation scheme has been set up for companies with significant market failures and new business guarantee and loan schemes with a view to increasing the liquidity of businesses. In the guarantee scheme for bank loans to enterprises, the State guarantees 90 pst. of the loan within a total guarantee framework of 50 billion. kr. The central government bond fund shall contribute to increasing liquidity and capital to the bond market through the purchase on market terms of interest-bearing instruments issued by Norwegian companies. Experience in the last six months shows that the tax system and income insurance schemes automatically contribute to stabilising the economy. When turnover and revenue have failed, taxes and duties are also reduced and the effect of tax collection is attenuated. Conversely, when the economy improves, the tax system will absorb more revenue. It is important to ensure this countercyclical function that the tax system has. Increased promises and lower tax revenues significantly weaken the finances of the country in 2020. Oil money usage is at a very high level. As a nation, we are dependent on maintaining and developing international cooperation. Norway will defend our fundamental values and interests at a time when we see an increasing pressure against the rule of law, democracy, freedom of expression and international law. In European policy, we stress that the EEA Agreement should continue to be a well-functioning framework for Norway's cooperation with the EU. The agreement ensures full access to our most important market and provides access to important labour. The government emphasises that Norwegian industry should have good, solid and sustainable framework conditions internationally. The government is working for the continued functioning of the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, as the basic global trade agreement. The Prime Minister hires the United Nations force force force unit. The government is working to achieve the 17 sustainability targets both in Norway and in developing countries. The government is intensifying development policy efforts for particularly vulnerable and postponing groups. Climate adaptation efforts, the prevention of natural disasters and the reduction of sulphur emissions have been reinforced. Furthermore, the government makes sure that we still have a leadership role internationally for education in developing countries. Human rights, women's rights and equality measures shall be reflected in the broad work done by the extra-richest. Norway has continued its efforts in a number of peace and reconciliation processes, including: in Venezuela, Colombia, South Sudan, Sudan, Philippines, Somalia, Afghanistan and Myanmar. There are a number of humanitarian crises in the world, and up to 80 million people are on the run. The government is a driver to ensure that humanitarian law is respected, and that humanitarian actors have access to help and protect those who need it. The government has significantly increased the humanitarian budget since 2013 and has adapted the humanitarian aid facilities to meet the increased challenges of covid-19. This has been done to ensure safe and unhindered humanitarian access to the debilitating. The government is working for the Arctic to continue as a peaceful and stable region, with Arctic Council as the central cooperation forum for the region. Norway is active in the control of nuclear disarmament, disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. Verification of disarmament is a specific bet area. The government wants a good neighbour relationship with Russia and has continued a broad bilateral cooperation, such as people-to-people cooperation, within fisheries, the environment and nuclear security. Most of the bilateral cooperation works well, although the relationship between Russia and the West is still demanding. EEA funding is an important European policy tool, and through Norway’s contribution to social and economic cohesion in the EU. Human rights are under pressure internationally, including on our own continent. In several areas, the situation has worsened as a result of the pandemic and the measures taken to prevent infection. Governments support international forums, bilaterally and together with like-minded countries, to achieve results, including through economic and political support for human rights fighters. In order to reduce the impact of virus outbreaks, Norway has taken the initiative of a new UN multi-party fund. The government has made an extra contribution of 50 million. kr to the World Health Organisation, WHO, and made a significant contribution to our partner countries in development policy. The Covid-19 pandemic has made it necessary to demarcate cross-border traffic, with quarantine rules, restrictions on entry and travel advice. It has had major consequences for migrant workers, tourism, trade and people-to-people contact. NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy. Norway has been involved in NATO's operations, misions and standing forces. In addition, Norway has worked to increase preparedness, strengthen NATO's deterrence and defence, and to promote Norwegian interests relate specifically to the North Atlantic and maritime issues. In addition, it is important for Norway that NATO continuously adapts to a changing security situation. The Nordic regions are becoming more strategically important. Russia will continue to be a dimensional factor for Norwegian security and foreign policy, but it will also be more important to follow the increased interest in China and close allies have shown for the Arctic and the Nordic regions. In order to facilitate seamless and rapid reinforcement as necessary, it is crucial to strengthen operational cooperation with close allies in Norwegian neighbourhoods, including in peacetime. Close and good operational cooperation with the United States and the United Kingdom is important in this context. In addition, Norway's support for the European Intervention Initiative, EI2, has strengthened our cooperation with key European allies and partners. The defence has strong sovereignty and situation monitoring in the north by being present with ships and aircraft. Over the last year, the government has followed up the ambitions of the long-term defence plan. The operational potential of Defence is strengthened by a resilient and systematic effort to increase accessibility, increase stamina, reduce clairvoyance and increase crew, activity and presence. The F-35 fighter aircraft also reached a milestone in 2019 when the system gained initial operational status with a total of 25 aeroplanes, as well as the establishment of Ørland airstation as our main base for combat aircraft being fully operational. The reinforcement of the Army has been continued through the construction of Finnmark land defence and increased presence at the Garnison in South Varanger. Through strategic cooperation with civil industry, the defence industry is given faster access to new technologies and can follow rapid developments in the field of ICT. The government has submitted a new big message about personnel from international operations. The priority areas for further scientific policy are the family and children of the veterans, the building of skills in civil auxiliaries and research. The government has continued its efforts to adapt the structures of defence personnel and competences by implementing key and important personnel reforms, such as a military add-on mechanism and the education reform. The defence has taken a number of measures to reduce the scope of sexual law offences, bullying and harassment. In order to address the consequences of the outbreak of the virus on the defence industry, the government has taken a number of measures. This includes, inter alia: the upgrading of approved projects such as the upgrading of army and shield-class corvettes, increasing the scope for research and development, exemptions from the provisions of the procurement legislation and the introduction of measures aimed also at small and medium-sized enterprises. The government has named a selection to evaluate the pension reform. The selection shall evaluate whether one can achieve the long-term objectives of the reform and assess the need for adjustments to ensure the economic and social resilience of the pension system. We have a common goal of a good and serious work life. It is important that workers have good and safe working conditions. For the enterprises, fair conditions of competition are decisive. There is a wide range of work-life crime interventions, with a focus on common controls. According to the police and control systems, the level of work crime no longer seems to increase. However, the crime of working life is demanding to discover because criminal actors adapt and camouflage their business. Authorities have stepped up efforts through prevention and measures to minimise the market for criminals, by helping public and private buyers to choose serious suppliers. Wages and salaries in 2020 are a main concern. Negotiations were postponed to autumn 2020 due to the covid-19 pandemic. With a demanding starting point this year, the audit of agreements has largely been solved through negotiation and mediation. The Norwegian regulation regime for the health, environment and safety of petroleum industries operates mainly well and should be passed on. However, oil price and cyclical fluctuations, the covid-19 pandemic and other changes and changes in industry may affect the current level of risk. There is still good cooperation between the parties, knowledge development and strong and transparent supervision. The government's ambition that Norwegian petroleum industry should be world-leading on HMS is firm. As a result of the covid-19 pandemic, Stortinget adopted several temporary changes to existing schemes and introduced new temporary arrangements within the area of responsibility of the Labour and Welfare Sit, Nav. By 2020, the Labour and Welfare Act has temporarily strengthened a total of 900 million. kr among others in order to carry out the decision systematically and to manage a significant increase in the scope of requests for services. However, the budget has to push on a significant part of its ordinary tasks. In addition to new and modified schemes, the establishment of the establishment provided a temporary advance solution for day-to-day pay, in order to ensure income for seekers. In response to the outbreak of the virus and the extensive measures to protect the infection introduced, several instruments of labour market policy were introduced. In the first phase of the crisis, the aim was to secure the income of all those who were affected by the outbreak of the virus and by the measures taken to prevent infection. The permitting arrangements and the day-to-day arrangements were temporarily changed to reduce the costs of employers and to ensure greater compensation for persons who were outsourced or unemployed. Temporary income insurance schemes were also established for self-employed and freelancers and for apprentices. Training has been provided for more lay-offs and unemployed people, including: by temporarily retaining the daily allowance during the training period. In order to meet challenges arising from the outbreak of the virus, the disease money legislation and the care money legislation were also temporarily amended. The right to use self-notification was extended in the first phase. Employers’ funding for corona-related sick leave and care money was reduced. Self-employed and freelancers were granted a right to sickness benefits in case of coronary illness. At the same time, the right to care was temporarily extended to workers, freelancers and self-employed persons who had to be away from work because the school or kindergarten was connected as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. The government has placed great emphasis on following up Digital21, which is the recommendations of industry related to digitisation. Several recommendations have been followed up through the national strategy for artificial intelligence and the digitalisation strategy for the public sector. The strategy for artificial intelligence, presented in January of this year, focuses on how Norway should develop and use artificial intelligence to create values and jobs. Artificial intelligence suggests that Norway can take advantage of innovation forces in areas where we have a distinct advantage, such as health, seas, public administration, energy and mobility. The government wants Norway to develop and use artificial intelligence, respecting the rights and freedoms of each individual. Data is an important starting point for the development and use of artificial intelligence. It should therefore facilitate the sharing of data within and across industries and sectors. The aim is an effective public sector that provides good services to its citizens, has a high level of confidence in the population and finds new solutions to societal challenges in collaboration with its citizens, the business community, the research community and civil society. The implementation of the digitalisation strategy is under way. The strategy is aimed at a clear user-centred service development, including: by a developer of related services within seven life events. A more efficient and co-ordinated use of common IT solutions is important to achieve this. By 2020, the state contributed more than 230 million. SEK for increased telepresence and 406 million. kr to broadband in areas without a commercial basis for expansion. Norway has the highest Internet use among the population of all European countries and, together with Denmark, the best mobile and broadband access. Priority is given to digitising the planning and construction axis processes, ownership transactions and the geographical knowledge base on land and at sea. 5G has been launched several places in Norway in 2020. The quality selection has assessed the tools to contribute to the defenceable quality of construction. The selection delivered its report in February 2020. The report was on the phone until 1 September. The government has provided a major communication on district policy. The municipalities have a new and modern municipal law. Laws should strengthen municipal self-government. Planning by design and building law is one of the keys to sustainable development in the whole country and for Norway to reach the UN's resilience target by 2030. These objectives shall form the basis for societal and spatial planning. Climate change has led to unexpected and undesirable events in municipalities. The government emphasises that social security and climate change adaptation are a recurring theme from planning to development. Local authorities have made a great effort to cope with the outbreak of the virus. They have ensured that the population is protected by measures to protect it, while providing services to its citizens in new and demanding circumstances. Compensating measures for the municipal sector in the context of virus outbreaks amount to over 12 billion. kr. As one of several measures to combat unemployment, municipalities have received a contribution of 2.5 billion. kr for the maintenance of municipal buildings and structures. The government is continuing to work on business simplification. Since 2018, simplification measures have been implemented that provide an estimated gain for business of about 3.6 billion. kr annually. The government's objective is to provide Norway with a leading port and the highest possible value creation from the sea. Norwegian fishing and maritime feeding is a profitable, viable and important industry for Norway with the production of food that is needed in the world. This is a good starting point for developing more activity and more jobs along our coast. The government therefore wants to facilitate further development of the industry. In November 2019, the government presented a new ownership notice that makes good for the State, which is owned by the State, and how the State exercises its ownership. The government will continue to conduct a responsible owner policy based on established frameworks. From this point of view, ownership policy is clear and further developed. The value of the country's direct ownership was 974 billion. kr at the end of 2019. For the financial year 2019, the government received about 42 billion. kr in exchange from the companies with direct State ownership. Norway has ratified the Arctic Agreement, which is intended to prevent unregulated fishing in the international part of the Arctic Sea and to promote research in this area. On 1 February this year, a transitional period in the EU, the United Kingdom and Norway began after the United Kingdom left the EU. In order to ensure the best possible cooperation in food and trade policy and the best possible access to the UK market at the end of the transitional period, the government is working to negotiate a new and comprehensive free trade agreement with the United Kingdom. In December 2019, the government presented the Landfill Communication High-Flying Satellites. A strategy for Norwegian space activities, Meld. Article 10 for 2019-2020. Norwegian investment in space is beneficial, with emphasis on industrial development and concrete national user needs in almost all sectors of society. The government has taken several steps to keep the Norwegian industry in the process of research, innovation and conversion in spite of the economic recession following the outbreak of the virus. The tool operators changed quickly to help businesses. An important objective for the government, even under the covid-19 pandemic, is to promote the development of a green maritime industry. The government wants to help maintain the same activity and jobs in the Norwegian maritime shipbuilding and supplier industries and has agreed to a EEA Joint Research Centre package for the period 2020–2024. In 2019, the Ministry of Oil and Energy accepted development plans for five new oil and gas projects in addition to the plan for the expansion of the Hywind Tampen marine wind project. Up to 2020, the Ministry has received two development plans. The development plan for the Northern Lights project is the first deployment plan for the storage of CO 2 under the seabed. In the 2019 round of the allocation of predefined areas, 69 extraction rights were allocated to 28 oil companies. Award in pre-defined areas for 2020 has been announced and the announcement of the 25th concession round has been sent on a public hearing. Petroleum investment was about 150 billion. kr in 2019 and are expected to fall this year and the next few years. In order to maintain the medium-term level of activity, it is necessary to make new findings and to identify additional measures to increase extraction in existing fields. The total production in 2019 was around 3.7 million barrels of oil equivalent per day, which was a slight decrease compared to the previous year. Collecting production is expected to increase towards around 2024. Norway decks between 20 and 25 pst. of the EU’s gas consumption and inputs to the transition to a renewable low-emission society in Europe. There are 88 fields in production, and the additional 15 projects are under construction over the entire base. Oil and gas industries will continue to play an important role in the Norwegian economy in the near future and will make a significant contribution to the future financing of the Norwegian welfare community. The country's total petroleum income was 257 billion. kr in 2019 and is estimated at 98 bn. kr in year, corresponding to 10 pst. of the total income of the country. The supply industry for the petroleum sector is Norway's second largest industry, after the sale of oil and gas. This industry creates a very large number of jobs and local economic development in all countries of the country. About 30 pst. the turnover of the supplier industry comes from international markets. The Covid-19 pandemic and the simultaneous fall in oil prices have hit the supply industry hard. As a result of virus outbreaks and low oil and gas prices, oil companies have been forced to push investment, for example. search, and non-critical maintenance. It was therefore important that a broad majority on the Storting agreed to introduce temporary measures to improve the liquidity of the petroleum companies and to increase the feasibility of implementing the profitable investments planned before the outbreak of the virus. As a response to the global market imbalance, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, in order to support good resource management and industry activity, has seen production regulatory measures for crude oil on a Norwegian base. In cooperation with industrial partners, the government has carried out extensive and thorough work on various distributions and studies of full-scale CO 2 handling and has provided the full-scale CO 2 handling message in Norway. The average force price for 2019 was 38,3 ø/kWh. In the first half of 2020, the average force price was 11.2 øre/kWh – 30 øre lower than at the same time last year. Low prices are mainly due to weather conditions. A lot of wind power production in the Nordic region also has the nerve to lower the power price. In 2019, power generation in Norway was 134,6 TWh – a decrease of over 12 TWh from the previous year. Power consumption in 2019 still of 134,7 TWh and with a net import of 0,1 TWh. 2019 was the first year since 2010 that Norway was not a net exporter of power. For the first half of 2020, Norway has a net export of 5.4 TWh. Norwegian electricity supply has the highest renewable share and the lowest emissions in Europe with the exception of Iceland. In 2019 came about 98 pst. of the power generation from hydropower and wind power. In the same year, 2.3 TWh new power generation was put into operation. At the start of 2020, 11 TWh were new renewable power generation under development, mainly wind power. In the report on wind power on land presented in June 2020, the government has gone through the concession treatment in depth. A good school and knowledge are important to create opportunities for everyone. Early efforts are crucial to provide all children and young people with training to advance them to the future. The goal is to complete the most basic training as possible. In November 2019, the government stepped up its efforts and issued a global Communication on early and inclusive communities with more than 60 follow-up actions. The family’s economy can prevent children from going to kindergarten or to school. The government has increased the income limits of the moderation schemes in kindergarten and introduced a 1st and 2nd stage moderation scheme for SFOs. As a result, more families will be able to let their children go to kindergarten and SFO. The renewal of initial training covers the development and introduction of new curricula in primary and further training. This is the biggest change in the school since the Knowledge Lift in 2006. The aim is that curricula should be more relevant to the future and have clearer priorities and that the inter-disciplinary coherence should be improved. The new curricula will be implemented step by step from school start in 2020 over a period of three years. This box is the new curriculum applied from 1st to 9th stages of the basic school and from the 1st stage of further training. New assessment and examination rules have also been introduced. The work on digitisation in the school shall continue as part of the subject renewal process. Decentralised mechanisms for the allocation of means of competence shall contribute to good local solutions. From the 2020-2021 school year, new structures in vocational and vocational training are introduced. This is the biggest change in vocational education and training since the ‘Knowledgelift’ in 2006. The aim is that the supply structure and content of the subjects become more relevant to the pupils and apprentices and are in line with the needs of the labour market. A wave of protests against racism in the United States in the summer of 2020 led to an increase in the attention of the entire Western world on human discrimination. The Norwegian school has an important role to play in preventing discrimination and radicalisation. The multidisciplinary themes of public health and life-mestering and democracy and citizenship shall be part of all relevant subjects, including: contribute to a secure identity, understanding of the relationship between democracy and central human rights and the ability to think critically. The government is continuing its efforts to grant funding to improve the well-being of students. Step up to 11 months of study support was fulfilled in the 2020 budget. A growing number of new student buildings are being built. In 2019 and 2020, the government has provided support for nearly 3,700 new student hubs. In addition, 250 million were allocated in 2020. kr to upgrade existing dwellings to their lifetime. The government has made the Loan Fund more flexible and adapted to the needs of adults with jobs and other obligations. In 2017, the government reduced the choice of skills needs, which would provide the best possible professional assessment of skills needs in the country. This year, the selection was continued from 2020 to 2026, with a new mandate. In April, the government presented the Reform of Competence – Learn All Your Life, Report. St. 15 for 2019-2020, which facilitates the development of skills for others in line with the needs of the labour market. The government continues to follow the long-term plan for research and higher education 2019–2028. The long-term plan looks at the course for policy development and investment in research and higher education from a 10-year perspective. Participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020, and in the EU Programme for Education, Training, Youth and Sport, Erasmus+, is an essential part of higher education and research policy. The Norwegian research community, health professionals, the public sector and businesses have so far received around 11 billion. kr, or 2,26 pst. of the funds so far mobilised in Horizon 2020. A start-up grant has been granted for rehabilitation and new construction for the Viking Age Museum at the University of Oslo. The new museum is expected to be finished in the fourth quarter of 2025. The new building of Norway's environmental and bioscientific universities and the Veterinary Institute at Ås will be completed in the autumn of 2020. As a central part of the government’s integration reform, proposals for a new law on integration through training, education and work were sent to the Stortinget in May this year. The outbreak of the virus created challenges for kindergartens and schools. It is particularly important to care for vulnerable children with difficult home situations or specific needs, and extra means have been provided to provide support for vulnerable children and young people. In response to the outbreak of the virus, efforts to raise skills have also been stepped up, including: through the Education promise of 2020, with measures to facilitate the completion of professional, professional and continuing training for more than one person, and the training of competence for inclusion in outsourced industries. There are also outstanding loans and scholarships paid through the Loan Fund for students who have experienced loss of income as a result of the virus outbreak. The virus outbreak has ramified refugees and newly arrived immigrants hard. The outbreak has led to high unemployment, and for workers with low formal qualifications and low professional experience it may be challenging to come to work in the future. The introduction programme has therefore been reinforced, among others. enhanced programme time for participants, more training in Norwegian and social knowledge, strengthening the Jobbsjansen incentive scheme and more career guidance. The need for targeted information on virus outbreaks to different immigrant groups is great. This applies both to health information and to information on social and economic consequences for each individual. The opportunities for information work in both national and local voluntary organisations have therefore increased, and the IMDI has been given a stronger coordination responsibility for action and information directed at the immigrant population. In addition, the IMDI provides for specific information measures that have been put in place in relation to the immigrant population and act as a link to the voluntary sector. In May this year, the government presented proposals for a new, holistic language law. In June, the government presented proposals for a new Media Support Act, and on 1 July, the law on editorial independence and responsibility in editorial journalical media came into force. In May, the Stortinget adopted the proposal from the government to include a separate issue in the Broadcasting Act that allows the Media Authority to stop marketing for non-licensed gambling in Norway. A new forward-looking and unbureaucratic funding model has been introduced for the NRC, which is financed from the State budget as of this year. 70 new jobs have been created at the National Library of Mo in Rana. The capacity extension allows scaling up work on digitising cultural heritage material in Norwegian archives, libraries and museums. The government announced in February a freedom of expression commission to go through the position of freedom of expression in Norway in a fundamental way. The government has presented an action plan against racism and discrimination on grounds of ethnicity and religion and an action plan against discrimination and hatred against Muslims. As of 1 January 2020, a low threshold for dealing with sexual harassment was established. Discrimination students have been granted treatment powers. From the same time, employers and public authorities have been given a strong duty to work actively to promote equality and to do well for their equality work. The government has presented an action plan for equal opportunities for people with disabilities. The action plan follows up the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, CRPD, and the recommendations of the CRPD Committee issued in spring 2019. A range of cultural, voluntary and sporting events have been totally or partially cancelled, suspended or delayed as a result of the measures taken to prevent infection in response to the outbreak of the virus. In order to limit the damage, compensation schemes have been established for cancelled or deferred events in the fields of culture, volunteering and sport. During the outbreak of the virus, many media companies have experienced the loss of much of the advertising revenue. For the government, it is a central goal that the media can keep its important social function going. A temporary compensation scheme for editor-guided media was therefore in place. The government continues the important work of securing Norway a police force that is better able to handle an increasingly mobile and digital crime scene. In order to invite to debate the further development of the police, the government issued a big message on the police for the Stortinget in spring 2020. In spring 2020, the government will secure helicopter preparedness for the police in North Norway with a civil helicopter with one hour response time 24 hours a day, year-round. A new national emergency centre shall be completed in the autumn. Police cooperation between Norway and Sweden has expanded. A new agreement entered into force in spring, and Norway and Sweden can now seek help from the national response resources of the neighbouring country in crisis situations. By 2020, a new prison opened in Agder, the largest prison in the country with a high level of security, with a total of 300 places. It marks an important rise in Norwegian criminal law. Modern prison buildings provide better conditions for both the inserts and the inserts and facilitate a good content in the soning. From 2020, Svalbard’s service vessel M/S ‘Polar employment’ is operated by the Employment Officer throughout the year. The vessel is a central resource of the rescue and rescue hang and is important for the ability of the employed person to supervise and exercise authority over the group of islands. The number of asylum seekers in Norway is still low. The low number of asylum seekers and irregular migrants hang among others. together with actions at the external borders, European cooperation with third countries and travel restrictions related to covid-19. We work closely with the EU to promote safe societies, fundamental rights and multilateral cooperation in response to common challenges such as climate change and migration. The government has contributed to finding global and regional solutions to today’s migration challenges by participating in relevant UN and EU processes and through cooperation with countries of origin. The government has submitted a proposal for a new Financial Agreement Act. The proposal includes, inter alia: a stronger protection for credit customers, a better access to modern banking and payment services and a strengthening of customer claims protection. The service provider's duties and the bank customer's dishes are clearly presented. Police are an important part of society's collective efforts to delineate the spread of infection during the ongoing covid-19 pandemic. On a proposal from the government, Stortinget passed a temporary law on regulatory housing to remedy the consequences of covid-19 outbreaks, etc., Koronalova. Under the law, temporary regulations on defence, effective and proportionate measures were adopted in the spring of 2020 to limit the disruption of key societal functions resulting from the covid-19 outbreak and to address negative impacts on the population, industry, the public sector or society otherwise. On a proposal from the government, Stortinget has adopted a temporary law on reconstruction to mitigate economic problems arising from the outbreak of covid-19. On a proposal from the government, the Stortinget has adopted a temporary law on adaptations to the procedural legislation to mitigate the consequences of covid-19 on the settlement of cases in the courts and with other actors in the justice sector. With strong involvement from the municipal sector, the government has been given a joint municipal journal solution and interaction solutions for healthcare services as a whole, Akson. There is a broad consensus on the need for better interaction in services. More than 120 000 added to the municipal health and care services have completed initial, further or recurrent training from Competanesellöft 2020 in the period 2016–2019. The government has put forward a proposal to legislate on a child co-ordinator scheme for families with children or who expect children with serious illness, injury or disability and who need long-term and complex health and welfare services and other welfare services. As of 1 July 2020, people over 67 years of age who already have the scheme are entitled to user-controlled personal assistance. The government has named a public selection to see more details about the scheme. The government has introduced a joint guarantee in the hospital from 1 July 2020. The government follows up the quality reform Life for the rest of its life – A quality reform for the elderly, Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The Storing Communication on Relieving Treatment and Care should help to make death visible as part of life and to help those in need have access to relieving treatment and care. The government has presented an action plan for the general medical services with a mandatory escalation plan for the period 2020-2024. The government has presented an action plan for the prevention of suicide, underpinning a zero vision of suicide in Norway. The government has presented an action plan to further reduce the number of abortions. Action in the plan continues to inform and guide prevention and sexual and reproductive health, while improving access to prevention. In the state budget for 2020, there were certain loan frameworks for the development of New Oslo University Hospitals on Aker and Gaustad. New Oslo University Hospital provides new and modern hospital facilities, increased capacity and organisation for new organisational solutions and working methods. On 1 July 2020, the government established the Eldreombodet in Ålesund. The aim of the Elder Environment is to promote the interests of the elderly in all areas of society. The 2020 investment premium framework facilitates the construction and rehabilitation of 2 000 all-day care sites. Since 2014, the government has arranged for 17 500 all-day care places, with a total staffing of approximately 29.1 billion. kr. As of 18 September, 267 people have lost the lives of covid-19 in Norway. Norway was given control of the distribution of the corona virus in April 2020. On 7 May, the government presented a strategy for managing the covid-19 pandemic. The aim of the strategy is to ensure that we constantly control the spread of infection. Control means that the burden of disease is low and that the number of patients is manageable in the health and care services. An uncontrolled pandemic will cause a huge burden of disease with so many sick people that there will be no capacity to provide intensive treatment to all who should. The administration has made it possible to move the services to patients' homes using digital solutions. The health and care sectors have shown a high degree of adaptability. Among other things, e-consultations in fixed nearly 60 pst. by all consultations during the first weeks of the pandemic. In comparison, this proportion was on average 3 pst. in 2019. The government has entrusted hospitals with the task of ensuring increased treatment capacity and sufficient intensive care to manage the entry of patients with covid-19. The government has asked the hospitals to keep alert, even if the situation is now under control. The increased preparedness has led to lower activity and longer waiting times in hospitals. Hospitals have now been asked to return to a more normal operation. The Covid-19 pandemic has led to a major need for infectious disease protection equipment both in hospitals and in municipal services. The government has ensured the establishment of a common national purchasing and distribution system for both the municipalities and the specialist services. Today, there is good access to equipment for all in the healthcare service. The government has undertaken a work to look at how to organise a future build-up of a possible permanent protective equipment stand-by. The government has ensured that the people have access to medicinal products. Agreements have been concluded to increase emergency storage facilities and the potential for drug production in Norway has to be assessed. The main strategy of the government to ensure adequate access to vaccines for people in Norway is to cooperate closely with the EU. The EU Commission has ensured that, under the vaccine strategy, its agreements with the pharmaceutical company also cover the needs of Norway and other EEA/EFTA countries. The EU aims to conclude agreements with different manufacturers for each of the most promising vaccine technologies. The EU has so far signed one agreement and is in dialogue with a number of other vaccine producers. Efforts against violence and child abuse have been strengthened. Collecting bets on the escalating plan against election and violation during the planning period is now at the top of 1 billion. kr. The child-restraint effort is increasing to over 90 million. to improve child protection and to provide child protection services with increased responsibility for the child protection reform. The work on a digital boost for municipal child protection has been continued through the DigiBarnevern project. A national portal for awareness-raising was launched in the spring of 2020. Action has been taken to improve health care for children in the field of child protection, and close cross-sectoral cooperation has been established for targeted and holistic efforts to help children who carry out or are at risk of committing serious and repeated crime. The government has started trying out a free-time card in 12 municipalities. The leisure card shall cover the costs of regular organised leisure activities for children aged 6-18 years. An own provision of a life course for first-time parents was introduced in 2020. In April, Stortinget dealt with a communication on the Information Society Fund. The management will follow up the work according to the Storing Decision. In April, the Storting adopted a new common law for the community of threats and life views. Law applicable from 1 January 2021. The government has put forward to the ears proposals for regulations on the registration of, and appeal to, the community of threats and life views, and on the granting and withdrawal of rights of marriage in the community of threats and life views. Vulnerable children and young people also need help in times of crisis. A 400 million measure package. In order to improve the situation of vulnerable children and young people in the context of the covid-19 outbreak, the revised national budget for 2020 has been adopted. The government has worked for good cooperation between responsible sectoral authorities and for the regular provision of services for children and young people to return to normal operation as soon as possible after the closure of society. The virus outbreak has given rise to challenges for package tour operators, and the government has therefore strengthened the Travel Guarantee Fund. As part of the government’s package of measures aimed at the construction industry, 52 million have been granted. in 2020 for actions for cultural-historically important churches from before 1850. The government follows up climate work in agriculture and implements, inter alia: the climate agreement with agriculture concluded last year. Climate action in agriculture means reducing emissions, increasing CO 2 emissions and strengthening climate change adaptation. The government has agreed with the Norwegian reindustry association on a reindustry agreement for 2020-2021. The agreement strengthens the framework conditions for the reprocessing industry. A new unit against animal welfare crime is established in Trom's police district. Troms is the sixth police district with animal police. Such units already exist in East, Inland, South West, West and Trøndelag police districts. All the five regions of the Food Authority are thus covered. Modification of the compensation scheme is being undertaken following the closure of fur animal husbandry. The changes shall follow the call decision from Stortinget that the compensation measurement shall be based on expropriation law rules. The government carried out an external review of the oversight activities of the Food Authority in 2019. The review shows that the Food Authority does not have sufficient systems and procedures for planning, implementing and monitoring supervision. In 2020, the Food Authority has taken action and is continuously working to improve the quality of its administration. The work on road safety is becoming a priority. In 2019, 108 people died on the Norwegian road. It's as many as in 2018 and the second lowest since 1947. Norway is a leader in road safety and has the lowest number of road fatalities in Europe, both when controlling the number of inhabitants and the number of kilometres run. Several road installations are open to traffic. The project E134 Damåsen–Saggrenda gives a new vegtrasé past Kongsberg. New Vegar AS has expanded its line on E6 from Hamar to Brumunddal, which opened in July. Ryfast, which provides continental connections between the North and Ryfylke, was opened in April. The government is working to get the most out of the money being invested. The project, etc. 3 / rv. 25 Ommangsvollen-Grundset/Basthjørnet i Løten och Elverum kommunar i Inland are being expanded as a OPS project, public-private cooperation. It opened July 30, 2020, which is three months ahead of time. The cost was 20 pst. lower than the estimated. After the opening of the traffic, the OPS carrier shall operate the road and maintain it. Toll loads have been reduced by tolling stations being closed, reduced toll rates outside the urban areas and increased government shares in projects over the last six years. [[about 500 million. kr annually from 2017]] The government’s toll agreement from 2019 introduced additional back-up schemes – both in and outside the urban areas. In the context of the revised national budget 2020, Stortinget raised 740 million. to delete tolls in five existing toll projects. The government is working for a coordinated urban land and transport policy, and a further zero-growth target has been established which says that in urban areas greenhouse gas emissions, queues, air pollution and noise are to be reduced through efficient land use and that the growth of passenger transport is resolved by collective provision, bicycles and corridors. By 2020, a new urban currency has been established for the North-Jear. An additional agreement to the urban growth agreement for the Trondheims area and a new urban capital talk with the Bergens area has been agreed by all parties. By means of the agreements, the State has considerable resources for measures to improve public transport, cycling and walking. From 1 January 2020, the State Road Administration was organised by functions and tasks in six divisions and one directorate. The organisational model shall facilitate more efficient resource use. As part of the regional reform, the Joint National and County Road Administration was wound up from 1 January 2020. The county councils are now responsible for managing and carrying out all tasks on their own behalf, i.e. work related to planning, construction, management, operation and maintenance of county roads. The transfer of County Road Administration is an important part of the regional reform, strengthening the role of county municipalities as a social developer, with clearer reporting lines and good interplay between subjects and policies. In December 2019, the State concluded an agreement with Vy Tog AS on the rights to operate the traffic package 3 West. During the contractual period with any options, the country receives up to SEK 2 200 million. kr. The agreements that have been concluded are part of the government's efforts to create a more customer-oriented and commercial railway. During the current outbreak of the virus, a number of measures have been implemented to help maintain a basic public transport system in line with the ongoing infectious diseases rules. Public transport helps people with critical societal functions to get to and from work. In order to ensure continuity of social-critical transport following the closure of Norway in the context of the covid-19 outbreak, a number of measures were also taken to keep track of transport supply, demand and challenges. Furthermore, financial support measures were put in place for carriers. The aviation industry was a very hard frame of the virus outbreak. On important domestic routes, the country entered and secured a minimum supply of air routes through public purchases. The State has provided additional compensation for the consequences of the virus outbreak to the operators of the air routes on the short-haul network, where the State purchased services even before the crisis. In addition, a number of charges have been exempted. It's created a guarantee facility of 6 billion. kr for the airlines and, in the context of the revised national budget 2020, measures were adopted for Avinor AS up to approximately 5 billion. kr. Furthermore, measures are in place to compensate for loss of income on national road ferries and in passenger transport by train and other public transport. There are also funds for additional maintenance under the direction of the State Road Administration, the Bane NOR and the Coastal Administration. The report for 2019 from the International Natural Panel documents extensive negative changes in the terrestrial and marine environment. The natural panel says that radical changes are needed to reverse the negative development. The government is working to limit the destruction of nature and to improve the quality of the nature we have. Local government is central. The government implements several measures to safeguard endangered nature and enhances the protection of forests, seas and other valuable nature by nature. Since October 2019 the protected 104 forest area. Now it's 5 pst. of all forest in Norway protected. In 2020, the government presented a major communication on environmental crime. With the management plan notification, the government has continued and renewed its work on a holistic and ecosystem-based management of the sea. Management plans manage increasing activity in marine areas and take into account the increasing impact of climate change. A fixed limit for the petroleum industry at iskantsona ensures both vulnerable ecosystems and provides a viable framework for the petroleum industry. In the summer of 2020, the government created nine new marine protection areas that take care of special underwater natural values along the Norwegian coast. The government follows up the cultural environment message with new national goals for the cultural memory field and government policy to achieve these goals. In June 2020, the government presented a hydrogen strategy that states that Norway has good intentions to develop and use hydrogen-based solutions. Norway cooperates, inter alia: with Indonesia to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation. This year, Indonesia is able to show for the first time reduced emissions from deforestation of 17 million tonnes of CO 2. That's one third of Norway's annual emissions. Norway has promised to pay up to SEK 530 million. kr for any part of the drop out. The Klimakur 2030 report was presented in January this year. The report is an important basis for the planned government message on climate change plan 2021-2030. The government has submitted a green conversion package of 3.6 billion. SEK to, among others technology development, research, green shipping and the circular economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-02.ana.ud544e583	Your Royal Highness, Your Majesty, co-representatives! The Crown Prince's Regent opens the 165th deposit. Once again, the people's elected representatives are sitting in this room to get to grips with the great tasks we're entrusted with. This year's opening ceremony testifies to the fact that we're on our way into a different set-up session. We are less present, and the glass-plastic that protects us from each other's breath is a visible proof of the new reality. The last big session was the most unusual one we've had in peacetime. The Norwegian community, each of us, the municipalities, the state powers – we – were put to the test. As elected representatives, we have been given confidence in making major and important decisions on behalf of the Norwegian people. It entails responsibility to discharge our obligations properly every day. We have also been chosen in confidence that we have the ability and the willingness to handle the unexpected when necessary. Trust in us is strengthened by what I believe we showed when the uncertainty was greatest in ours. Our political culture is at the heart of cohesion — not a society that wipes out disagreements, but a society that allows us to find common solutions when needed. The crisis required hard work. Storting acted quickly and had many and important issues dealt with in a short time. It created difficult balances and the need for exceptional measures both politically, formally and practically. In crisis, our lasting values are put to the test. Everything we do must pass the test against our constitutional and democratic standards, and above all against the population, for which we are here. The people's confidence in the authorities is great, and it may seem to have been strengthened by the coronary crisis. But we neither want, need, nor deserve blind trust. Fortunately, neither do we. The people's continued confidence depends on our ability to listen to advice and take into account justified criticism. We have to be able to take the difficult discussions that are needed to find the best solutions. It's most true when serious things are at stake. Today, we're taking on the last session of this magnification period. We're not going into any calm last round. More than in a long time, we have to admit that we don't know what the next year will bring. Our task is usually to adjust the course and build in the long term. It is likely that this autumn and winter again will have to extinguish fire. In months to come, we can again experience that many people's well-being depends more on concretely than usual, and from one day to the next, on the work we do, and on the decisions made by us here in the hall. That's why we're taking the last year of the ageing period well aware that there won't be any clean scarf stage. It's going to be hard work all the way in. Many of us are also going to campaign in the next year. We also do not know how the election campaign will work, but we know that while we are going to highlight the differences between us in the name of the campaign, the campaign must be conducted with respect. There is no reason to face difficult times with harsher comments. We're going to continue to stand together against insatiability, hoarseness and unreasonableness. The trust shown to us is reason to bear with pride. Let's keep doing this with honor. When we meet again for responsible work, it is certain of the great tasks ahead of us, and of the responsibility we have assumed. We gather in the old wish: God preserve the King and the homeland!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-02.ana.ud544e615	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
